mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think it is improper to end important debates without a resolution. this parliament is here to take a clear position, not simply to let the group chairmen and any group spokesman speak without adopting a resolution. mr musharraf will come here and he will know what parliament thinks about the situation in his country so that he can be dealt with. i think we should put an end to the custom of postponing the adoption of resolutions for fear of losing our courage by courageously voting for a resolution.
mr president, in december the european court of justice delivered a long-awaited judgment with worrying implications for the protection of posted workers in europe. it is a negative signal to our citizens who are concerned about the risks of social dumping. what does the court say in this so-called 'laval' judgment? that the swedish trade unions were wrong to want to impose on a latvian company the adherence to their collective agreement, especially with regard to the minimum wage. the 1996 directive requires posted workers to comply with a core of mandatory rules on minimum protection in the host member state. the court held that the swedish collective agreement system was not involved and that only the law could impose standards. the european message is therefore no longer readable: on the one hand, the commission is putting forward flexicurity and the collective bargaining system as a model, on the other hand, the court of justice is disqualifying this model. parliament and the council must therefore shed light on this matter, otherwise it would be like accepting the bolkenstein directive, which went out the door, and came back through the window, which would be completely unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, slovenia, the only country of the former yugoslavia to have joined the european union, is now holding the presidency of the union. we wish him every success in his presidency. nevertheless, the need to resolve the yugoslav crisis once and for all has never been more pressing, whether it be the question of kosovo or the acceleration of the accession of its balkan neighbours. the only solution for all the countries of the former yugoslavia is to join the union as soon as possible, in accordance with the criteria laid down. peace requires a higher view and above all to look beyond the history of the balkans to the future of europe. the kosovo question has not been resolved to date because the international community has been unable to agree on a solution. the european union has also been a victim of this blockage, this syndrome. between countries fearing the effects of independence and those who dream of rushing to validate it for various diplomatic reasons, slovenia will have to ensure the cohesion of the union by seeking an internal compromise first, if we do not want to make ridiculous or even ridiculous the foreign policy of the european union provided for by the treaty of lisbon. but we know that triglav mountain in slovenia is a symbol of determination and completion. let it be the symbol of the year 2008!
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of our colleagues in parliament and of the house to the fate of two french journalists, pierre creisson and thomas dandois, who are currently in prison in niger, on charges of undermining state security, which is punishable by the death penalty in that country. it is not in dispute that these two journalists and their driver al hassane violated the laws of niger by going into a restricted area, but it was, i would say, for the good journalistic cause, since it was their intention to report on the tuareg rebellion, and it was also their intention to return to the capital to question the authorities of niger, to get the widest possible view. so it seems important to me that we mobilize for these two journalists because, first, they risk the death penalty, which is totally disproportionate to what they have done, and second, because niger is a friendly country that we help a lot and that would not deserve the reputation that this attitude could bring. i think, mr president, that you and my colleagues could do the honour of joining this appeal for reflection, for clemency to president tandja, so that these two journalists can be released, and even if it is true that they have violated the laws of niger, it is still not a violation that deserves such a long imprisonment.
mr president, on friday 11 january i was not allowed to visit the detention centre for foreigners in lille-lesquin. the visit was part of the european week of action against the imprisonment of foreigners in europe. however, mr president, since july 2003, following a request by the then president of our parliament and vice-president onesta, the french authorities have been obliged to clarify that the rules applying to visits by national parliamentarians and senators also apply to meps. i therefore ask you, mr president, to appeal once again to the french authorities to ensure that the commitments made at the time are fully respected and in particular that equal treatment is guaranteed between members of the european parliament and national members. this is all the more relevant as meps are currently considering a draft directive on return which could have very serious consequences for the detention of foreigners. i would add that the purpose of the unannounced visits to places of deprivation of liberty is to prevent ill-treatment and that ill-treatment is generally unpunished in france, as the latest report of the committee for the prevention of torture indicates.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate commissioner verheugen on taking the initiative to set up a high-level group, cars 21, on the european car market. in 2003, several of us, the ministers for industry, wanted this new method of looking at a given industrial sector in order to find the appropriate solutions. we remember that this was the case, for example, in the textile sector, and it was a success. this approach allows the professionals to be involved and to achieve an integrated approach. i would just like to make one wish for the future: representation that takes better account of the diversity of the professions concerned by the sector and an even stronger involvement of the european parliament. that said, i would like to mention three of the points made in the excellent report by mr chatzimarkakis. firstly, to point out that the automobile sector is a source of jobs, competitiveness, growth and innovation and thus to call for a substantial increase in funding for research and development, particularly in the fields of hydrogen engines, fuel cells and hybrid vehicles. the message is clear and research into automotive technology should certainly be a priority for the european institute of innovation and technology. secondly, as regards the contribution of the car industry to the fight against global warming, the co2 emission reduction targets are in line with the davies report which we voted on last october. we must allow the industrialists to prepare. i therefore believe that the 2015 deadline cannot reasonably be shortened. on the other hand, the fight against greenhouse gas emissions must also be achieved through fiscal measures, which encourage the renewal of the car fleet. finally, i welcome the rapporteur's call for the creation of an internal market for car equipment and accessories and for the intensification of the fight against the import of counterfeit parts. it is a question of the safety of citizens, but it is also a question of the survival of thousands of european smes. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that it is essential to take stock of the pressure on the european car industry and the increasingly serious competition. i thank mr chatzimarkakis for the excellent cooperation with the fictitious rapporteurs and i would like to congratulate him on reaching this very dynamic and promising result for this important sector of our economy.
madam president, with the suicides of workers at renault and peugeot in france, the thousands of lung cancers among workers in the asbestos industries, there is obviously a problem of occupational health. the european commission presents a communication to act on the health strategy, but in reality when we read it we are faced with a walt disney resolution, written by snow white for her seven dwarfs. and it is very cute. so, in paragraph 35 of the resolution, we are told that we must have healthy lifestyles at work; in paragraph 29, medical examinations are required; in paragraph 54, fire extinguishers are required; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. fortunately, the rapporteur from the committee on industry has given us solutions, with a psychologist and a chaplain for every 500 employees. but in reality we are not told anything about the causes of occupational diseases. there are three of them. first, the ideology of lowering our border protections that puts our workers in unfair competition with slave laborers in asia. to resist, it is the race for productivity at the expense of health. secondly, the foolish policy of a strong euro deprives us of monetary competitiveness. the only adjustment variable is an increase in productivity, with health also compromised. finally, the neurotic philosophy of competitiveness is the economic war between europe, asia or latin america. but in war there are wounded and dead, as well as sick and injured workers. in other words, the european worker is in the global economic arena like a stressed and bloodied battle bull that is going to the end of its health. the solution, then, is to get our workers out of this unfair global arena, and it's called a new customs technology of deductible tariffs.
in writing. my first words will be to congratulate the european commission on its community strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2012 and on the work of our parliamentary committee. almost 500 000 people a year die or become permanently disabled from work-related causes and the european commission's target of reducing accidents at work in the union by an average of 25% is to be welcomed. i support the idea of better action by the european agency for safety and health at work based in bilbao, spain. in this area, and more generally in the construction of social europe, i regret that neither the report nor the european commission's communication stresses the importance of supporting the social partners, who, as we must constantly remind ourselves, have, within the framework of the current treaties, with articles 137 et seq. of the treaty establishing the european community (tec), - and this has been confirmed by the treaty of lisbon currently being ratified - legal instruments enabling the construction of european social law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would just like to make a few remarks. i think it is good for the image of our parliament to show european consumers that we are responsible for protecting their interests. and if mr lechner's report is a very good piece of work, for which he should be congratulated, i believe that it is now up to us in this final phase to find the compromise that will make it possible to underline the importance of consumers to our parliaments. it would be a great achievement if the council were to emerge as the best consumer protector. we must find a compromise on the few words that divide us, so as to avoid a conciliation which would be detrimental, i think, to everyone. regression should also be avoided and, as in lithuania, consumers in france do not pay compensation in the event of early repayment. we cannot offer consumers regressions from the current national law.
ladies and gentlemen, you know that 19 members have tabled requests for explanations of vote on each of the seven reports voted on at noon. there are also ten requests for individual explanations of vote. the theoretical duration of explanations of vote would then be 143 minutes, just over two hours. in order to be able to call these explanations of vote today, i propose the following amendment to our agenda: the commission's statement on waste in the campania region, currently scheduled for 9 p.m., would take place immediately after the angelilli report on the rights of the child. the explanations of vote would be held in the evening, after the oral question on the status of the members elected in poland. the order of business would be as follows: from 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.: the cashman report, the angelilli report, then the commission statement on waste in the campania region, then from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.: question time to the commission, then, in the evening session, from 9 p.m. to midnight, in the order: the pack report, the graefe zu baringdorf report, the oral questions by the members elected in poland and, finally, the explanations of vote on the voting points at noon.
i would like to remind you of a few basic points about how we work. the chairman may adjourn the sitting at any time. all i have to do is stand up, leave this chair and our work will automatically be stopped. i assure you, i have no intention of leaving the chair, but you should know that at any moment, the president has only to stand up and in fact our work stops. so the sitting was suspended, since it is the absolute power of the president of the sitting to suspend the proceedings whenever he wishes. that's a first. secondly, the plenary, and the plenary alone, is the master, the absolute master of its agenda. that is why i propose that the agenda be rearranged as i have just suggested. if you do not wish to rearrange the agenda as i have just suggested, then, and only then - and you are right, mr heaton-harris - we shall resume the agenda as it was previously adopted. i would therefore now ask whether there is any formal objection to the review of the agenda as i have just proposed. so a formal and reasoned objection to my proposal, and then i'll take someone who will speak in favor.
i would remind you once again that the house is sovereign. so, as i am doing now, it is the power of the president of the sitting to ask the members, one for, one against, to speak. that's a power of the presidency. as soon as the house voted, but i believe that this morning a vote was held, including electronic verification, i think that the result of the vote cannot be contested.
i have a pro and a con. if you are speaking, it is on something different, not to argue for or against again, otherwise i cannot give you the floor.
what i propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, is the following. obviously we will not be able to decide this afternoon in plenary on all the arguments of each side on the interpretation of the regulation. if you have any complaints, please make them in writing to the president of parliament. i'm sure he'll appeal to the appropriate committee. now i'm just setting the agenda. i made a proposal. i heard one member against, one member for. i'll put it to the vote. (parliament approved the request) (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the minutes of the sitting of monday 14 january 2008 have been distributed. are there any observations?
madam president, i will speak to you as calmly as you were upset in your remarks. i gave you the floor to ask whether or not you had anything to say about the minutes of monday, january 14. you didn't intervene on that. i have had the courtesy of listening to you to the end and i hope that the other members, like myself, will appreciate the tone you are adopting in the house. i therefore consider that there are no comments, since the president is not speaking. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the agenda calls for the report by michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision implementing regulation (ec) no 168/2007 as regards the adoption of a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2007-2012 (com (2007) 0515 - c6-0322/2007 - 2007/0189 (cns)) (a6-0514/2007). a point of order, my dear colleague. can you tell me which rule you're referring to?
it is difficult for me to give you an explanation in real time, but i can risk one, my dear colleague. we receive - and i have often chaired explanations of vote - real time requests. i am sure that at the time when my colleague vidal-quadras made the announcement, there were fourteen names on the desk in front of him and i am sure that in the next few seconds or minutes other colleagues came to the chair to say that they too wanted to speak. that is why the figure has certainly been increased from 14 to 19 between the announcement made by vice-president vidal-quadras and the announcement i have just made to you. but we will check this very interesting point of regulation. we are now returning, if you will, to the cashman report, and i shall give the floor to the commission straight away.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone who took the floor for their suggestions and contributions. first of all, the european union should be, and should be seen by citizens to be, not only the best defender but also the best promoter of fundamental rights. by this i mean the rights of groups and communities as well as the rights of individuals. that is a very important approach. i also feel that, following the proclamation of the charter and the signing of the lisbon treaty, the agency should become the most effective european instrument in this field. to this end, i would like to see parliament organising the hearing of the candidates short-listed for the post of director as soon as possible, so that the agency can start working to the best of its capacities. i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr cashman, that we have to let the agency start working now. overburdening it with too many tasks would risk making the agency a body that appears to be strong, but which in practice is incapable of acting with the required speed. finally, i am aware of the concerns expressed by many of you, and can promise you that, well before the end of the five-year period, i would be ready to make full use of the commission’s powers to request the agency to go beyond the scope of article 2, namely in the field of justice and security cooperation. one final word: i am sympathetic to what my friend, mr méndez de vigo, has said, and will look closely at his suggestions, particularly as regards amendment 15, in order to try to meet the expectations expressed concerning a european strategy against poverty. i would also repeat that i am prepared to accept amendment 6, even if i do not agree with it in principle. i hope that my trying to meet your expectations will make mr cashman happy.
parliament seems to appreciate this, commissioner.
mr. cashman, in personal response to an attack that was perceived as personal.
i can indeed testify that in the french translation, we were not talking about non-subscribers, but about extremists. so there was a clear differentiation in what our rapporteur said. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2008.
the agenda calls for the report by roberta angelilli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the european strategy on the rights of the child (2007/2093 (ini)) (a6-0520/2007).
mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that the commission is proposing the establishment of a european strategy on the rights of the child. a large part of european policies affects children and therefore specific action is needed to protect their rights and enable them to participate actively. i am particularly pleased that parliament is calling for a definition of the concept of a child in danger. this instrument will enable us to provide specialised help to children who are victims of a particular social situation, endangering their mental and physical integrity. on the other hand, we cannot abandon children in poverty to their fate. these children do not always receive the protection they need because their parents cannot afford it. they need special help so that they are not condemned to social exclusion, and states must have the responsibility to ensure access to health and education for all children, regardless of the social or legal status of their parents, in order to guarantee, in practice, equal opportunities for all. i would also like to stress the special situation of migrant children. administrative detention of children is unacceptable. we cannot understand that people fleeing war or despair are considered criminals, much less children, who should all be protected and educated according to the convention on the rights of the child.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr rapporteur, this proposal for a regulation to introduce remote sensing by satellite is an interesting one. in the 1990s, michel debatisse, the boss of french farmers, had already proposed a remote sensing project for livestock farms. the aim was to put electronic ear chips in cattle and sheep, in particular to control the allocation of premiums and to prevent fraud in certain departments in the south of france. the idea was even to have electronic capsules that the cattle would swallow, that would be attached to one of the pockets of their digestive tract and that would be sorted by satellite. today it is something different, a story that is already seven years old, with its pilot projects mars or lucas. this involves providing information on land use, soil condition or crop condition to forecast yields and, at the same time, manage agricultural markets and manufacture econometric models. this objective of collecting information, supplying statistics, making forecasts, even making a computer site obviously involves a risk - i was going to say a risk initiated by remote sensing, because it will only be accessible to large farmers or very rich regions and, at the same time, it will not allow everyone to anticipate prices, especially when the price of cereals is rising; the fact that we can anticipate prices several months in advance by predicting what the harvest will be obviously arouses great interest on the stock markets in chicago and elsewhere. it is with great interest, if i may say so, that our rapporteur, graefe zu baringdorf, raises the question of interest, especially since this position is not free. i understand that it was about 10 million, even if it is over five or six years, and that, above all, these amounts will not be taken from an autonomous line but from an agricultural guarantee fund. it is worthwhile, commissioner, to experiment or to pursue it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my polish colleague jacek saryusz-wolski which proposes a favourable opinion of the european parliament on the amendment of the 2004 council regulation on the establishment of partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process. the aim is to change the name of the partnership for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia from 'european partnership' to 'accession partnership', in order to align it with the name of the partnerships established with the other two candidate countries: croatia and turkey. in addition, the independence of montenegro had to be taken into account. as i write these lines, i am thinking of kosovo and hoping for a peaceful and european solution to this difficult situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing common principles for the levying of airport charges at community airports following the report by my german colleague ulrich stockmann. at a time when european airports, which are mainly publicly owned, are being privatised, when users do not always have an accurate assessment of their consumption of services and when airlines operate in a context with many variables, it was normal to frame the setting of airport charges. i welcome the creation of independent national regulatory authorities to monitor this market and hope that european coordination will be established quickly and that an independent european regulator will eventually emerge.
in writing. i voted, in first reading under the co-decision procedure, a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals on the basis of the report by my dutch colleague johannes blokland. i am glad that a compromise has been reached because there is a certain urgency to regularize the legal situation resulting from the annulment of the previous 2003 regulation by the court of justice while improving this regulation to take account of developments since that date.
in writing. i welcome the agreement at first reading that has been reached on this regulation. there are 75 000 different chemicals on the market, with 1 500 more being added each year. this makes it difficult for governments to track and manage the many potentially hazardous substances that cross our borders daily. the regulation will contribute to a more rational use of these dangerous chemicals by facilitating the exchange of information on their characteristics. this will give importing countries the tools and information they need to identify potential hazards and exclude chemicals they cannot handle safely. it is true that exporting countries sometimes have difficulty in obtaining explicit consent from importing countries. but the derogations granted to exporting countries pending consent should now not be valid for more than 12 months. i am pleased that this measure has been adopted, which aims to prevent the uncontrolled import of dangerous chemicals into third countries. this regulation will thus avoid many of the mistakes that have been made in the past and which have caused damage to the environment and public health.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending, at first reading by codecision, the european commission proposal amending council regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their families moving within the european community, on the basis of the report by my distinguished hungarian colleague csaba ory, which makes technical amendments to the european commission proposal in order to clarify or improve the readability of the regulation. it is welcome that this regulation aims to give a correct picture of the evolution of the legal situation of national social security schemes and thus to ensure adequate coordination at community level.
in writing. on the basis of the own-initiative report of my german friend and colleague jorgo chatzimarkakis, i voted in favour of the resolution on a competitive regulatory framework for the automotive sector following the european commission's communication based on the so-called cars 21 high level group. first of all, i would like to welcome the method of carrying out a genuine industrial audit, with all the parties concerned, with a view to defining an industrial policy for the automobile sector which involves such essential parameters as the impact on purchasing power, employment, safety, mobility, the environment, the regulatory burdens on industry but also innovation, competitiveness, the problem of used cars, the deconstruction of vehicles, etc., and this in an internal market which is far from being finalised. it is imperative that the european union, after having built the internal market by taking care of consumers, should pay particular attention to producers by conducting a european industrial policy with them. the automotive sector, in which we have a long tradition, must be accompanied in the great changes of today.
in writing. the chatzimarkakis report is supposed to outline the competitiveness of the automotive sector in the future, taking into account environmental constraints, product and safety standards, the international competitive context, etc. nevertheless, the endless persecution of motorists is clearly seen. what do traffic restrictions or cross-border enforcement of traffic laws have to do with this? will europeans be forced tomorrow, under pain of sanctions or overtaxation, to buy so-called 'clean' vehicles equipped with costly safety-related technologies, when in a country like france the average age of the car fleet (8 years) is explained by the financial difficulties of citizens and their low purchasing power? why are the only private cars being criticised again, when in france, for example, they are responsible for only 13% of co2 emissions, certainly less than in countries which have not opted for nuclear power? the truth is that there is a fundamental antinomy between wanting a competitive car industry in europe, when all european policies are about raising the cost of cars and impoverishing consumers, while increasing the persecution that discourages the purchase and use of a vehicle.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report proposing the establishment of a competitive regulatory framework for the automotive sector. the roadmap will aim to make cars cleaner and safer and to simplify the legal environment in which european car manufacturers operate. the impact of road transport on air quality must be able to be reduced as the vehicle fleet is renewed. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the deadlines, which coincide with the date of 2015, to reach a limit of 125 g/km for cars placed on the market. this date corresponds to the entry into force of the euro vi standards. additional measures could be included in this approach (alternative fuels, eco-driving, taxation, etc.) and particular attention should be paid to biofuels and hydrogen. cars 21 recommends an integrated approach involving vehicle technology, infrastructure and road users to improve road safety (electronic stability control, seatbelt warning lights, brake assist systems, etc.). effective legislation must first be realistic, and the industry has long placed environmental issues at the heart of its policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the tax treatment of losses in crossborder situations, based on the own-initiative report of my distinguished colleague, ms piia-noora kauppi, in response to a communication from the european commission on the same subject. i am very concerned about the adverse effects on the functioning of the internal market of the multiplicity of schemes applied by member states in relation to crossborder losses. the timing is particularly appropriate in the context of the recent decision of the european court of justice (ecj) in the marks & spencer case, as in the absence of cross-border deduction of losses, compensation for such losses is generally limited to profits realised in the member state in which the investment was made. this distorts the decisions of companies within the internal market. it seems essential to coordinate the direct taxation systems of the member states within the internal market. but this must be a temporary solution because in the longer term we will have to adopt a common consolidated corporate tax base which is a comprehensive solution for removing the tax obstacles linked to the cross-border offsetting of losses and profits.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my british colleague glenis willmott, i voted for the european parliament resolution on the community strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2012 and in response to the european commission communication on this subject. almost 500 000 people a year die or become permanently disabled from work-related causes and the european commission's target of reducing the average number of accidents at work in the union by 25% is to be welcomed. i support the idea of better action by the european agency for safety and health at work based in bilbao, spain. in this area, and more generally in the construction of social europe, i regret that neither the report nor the european commission's communication stresses the importance of supporting the social partners, who, as we must constantly remind ourselves, have, within the framework of the current treaties with articles 137 et seq. of the treaty establishing the european community (tec) and this has been confirmed by the treaty of lisbon which is being ratified, legal instruments enabling the construction of european social law.
in writing. the objectives, although commendable in form, for health and safety at work for the 2007-2012 calendar year are unlikely to be achieved, as is the case with the lisbon strategy, which was not able to achieve its objectives by 2010. moreover, the disparities in legislation on these matters are so great in europe that it makes their management very difficult at community level, the major risk being that of a bottom-up standardization of these safety and health standards. instead of talking about the strengths and advantages it offers, europe should take concrete action and tackle the issues that really make workers vulnerable: precariousness, unemployment and poverty. only then will the issues of health and safety at work naturally find their place in the regulatory space under construction. our european leaders are wrong: it is not by encouraging immigration that poverty thresholds will be lowered, poverty reduced or growth increased. the only proof of this is that never in the last decade, when immigration has been so high, has growth been so low in relation to the rest of the world. the community strategy for health and safety at work has not taken these parameters into account. we shall therefore vote against this report.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the wish of the epp-ed group for a europe that works, a europe that is able to respond to the concerns of its citizens, coincides with the slovenian presidency of the european union. slovenia, your dear country, janez janša, is a country of performance. macroeconomic indicators and the nature of political debate bear this out. the slovenians are among the first to give us a strong feeling of belonging to the union. slovenia is among the best performers in achieving the lisbon objectives. slovenia has accumulated successes during its accession process and since 2004. what we have done, or not quite done, in 50 years, you have done in 10 years. and best of all, you have managed to make the difficult transition from socialism to a market economy without disrupting your society. a strong privatised economy, stable inflation, rising wages, relatively low unemployment and above all a strong currency that allowed you to switch to the euro in 2007. you have also joined the schengen area and are now the first of the new member states to take the reins of the union. the slovenian presidency is undoubtedly a milestone in the integration of the new member states into the european union. by taking on the responsibility of accompanying the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, by leading the work of the 27 to meet the challenges facing europe in terms of energy and climate, growth and employment, by pursuing the integration process of the western balkans, by contributing through your initiatives to the european year of intercultural dialogue, which will be an opportunity to reaffirm the values of openness, tolerance and dialogue that are at the heart of the european project, the slovenian presidency shows that the countries that have joined the union since 2004 are familiar not only with the union's institutional affairs, but also with its internal functioning and the way in which europe advances its interests at international level. mr president-in-office of the council, the epp-ed group will be at your side to support the achievement of your priority objectives. the future of europe is at stake with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it will therefore be necessary to be efficient if ratification is to continue with a view to having new tools before the european parliament elections in 2009. our group will also support your efforts to launch the new cycle of the lisbon strategy effectively and to ensure that europe has a prosperous, equitable and environmentally friendly future and that our economy is well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation. to create conditions for social growth, to make knowledge and innovation the engines of growth and to find answers to demographic challenges, energy supply and climate change, europe must play a leading role in negotiations with its global partners on a post-kyoto system. mr president-in-office of the council, with regard to the balkans and the european perspective in the western balkans, we will support your efforts to promote stability and cooperation in the region, because the security and prosperity of the union as a whole are at stake. the union and your presidency must play their part in resolving the status of kosovo. the role of slovenia as a bridge between east and west, which it has often played in the history and geography of europe, is an asset for the union and its member states. at the crossroads of all the influences which have shaped the history of our continent, slovenia is a permanent place of passage for people, goods and all cultural currents. slovenia will be the ideal promoter of dialogue between different cultures, beliefs and religious and spiritual traditions in the context of the european year of intercultural and plural dialogue. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said to you when i spoke on behalf of the epp-ed group, i wish for a europe of performance in 2008, a europe of performance, and the presidency of the union is undoubtedly a considerable challenge for a country like slovenia, particularly in view of its human resources and the size of its government administration, as you have mentioned. but, mr president, other members of our union - luxembourg, austria - have repeatedly demonstrated that european conviction, tradition and performance are not measured by the size of the countries. good luck to the slovenian presidency! (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, for this first presidency of a new member state, slovenia has inherited from its predecessors a number of rather ungrateful issues. so, with regard to the ratification of the lisbon treaty, are you obliged to ensure that no state, except ireland, sets a bad example by holding a referendum, even in countries where firm commitments have been made to do so? it is a step backwards in the era of closer relations between citizens and the union's institutions. frankly, you deserved to serve a more noble cause. on the social front, the presidency will first have the difficult task of unblocking two emblematic draft directives, on the one hand on working time and the infamous opt-out, and on the other on temporary agency work and equal treatment of employees. it will also be followed by a substantive debate on the follow-up to the recent laval/vaxholm and viking line court judgments, which legitimize social dumping. my group has asked for a debate on this matter to be included on the agenda of a forthcoming part-session of parliament. the whole problem of the bolkestein directive and the provisions of the treaty on which it is based is thus revived. the ratification of a new text incorporating all these provisions is rather disorderly. finally, on the social front, europe is faced with the growing demand for wage increases. their share of value added has been declining for decades. it has never been so low, even the economic press itself points out. the european central bank has just threatened to raise interest rates if this legitimate demand is met, and experts agree that it will, although profits have never been so high. if we do not put this question on the agenda, it will soon be on the agenda of its own accord. i would remind you that the joint document of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies stresses in paragraph 68 that these presidents, i quote, 'will make it a priority to strengthen the european social model which is an integral part of the lisbon strategy'. as the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is the eating of it! i should also like to say a few words about another sensitive subject, that of irregular migrants. at its present stage, the draft directive on their return deserves the label of shame given to it by human rights organisations. the adoption of the text as it stands would be a cruel illustration of the good intentions of the union in the context of intercultural dialogue. i would like to conclude by mentioning the problem of kosovo. before making any decision, would it not be justified to have some clarification on a threefold question? first, how can we explain the fact that two billion euros of aid from the international community has resulted in no economic development, endemic poverty, unemployment for one in two inhabitants, and the proliferation of corruption and mafia networks in the space of seven years? secondly, how can we explain the fact that 17,000 nato soldiers proved incapable of preventing the destruction of dozens of orthodox buildings, the abduction or murder of hundreds of kosovo citizens from minority communities and the forced exile of thousands more? finally, how will the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo and the replacement of unmik by the european union resolve these vital problems while ensuring stability in the balkans? i'd be curious to hear your answer.
mr president, you are modestly presenting yourself to us. you even mentioned some mistakes you might have made, admitted a possible naivety. as part of the troika, i suggest that you convey this sense of humility to the french president who will succeed you. i have only one message to convey to you: give europe the best lessons of your history. you're celts, too! you were dominated by bavaria, sucked into the republic of venice, integrated into the austro-hungarian empire, occupied by napoleon - accept my apology - divided between germany, italy and hungary, integrated into the yugoslav federation and you have been independent since your referendum in 1990. what a story! who better to speak about intercultural dialogue than you? who better than you to do that? so, you're gonna have to prioritize that higher. you put her in fourth position, i suggest you take her up a flight of stairs or two! however, do not limit inter-cultural dialogue to inter-religious dialogue. think also of the contribution to europe of those who believe that religion and politics should not be mixed, because history has shown that when one takes care of the other, it always produces bad results. in conclusion, i would like, if you will allow me, and always in the spirit of what i have just said, to read to our colleagues a short passage from your national anthem, for it is beautiful!" long live all the peoples who yearn to see the day. where the sun runs its course, the quarrel of the world will be banished. every citizen will be free at last, and not an enemy, and the frontier, the frontier will be his neighbor". that is the spirit of your presidency, that is the spirit of europe. i'm french, i'm not going to give up my "marseillaise", but for six months, i'm willing to be slovenian! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. bravo, mr prime minister janez jansa, for your speech to our european parliament. you are the first president of the european council to lead one of the nations that has been liberated from the communist yoke and joined the european union in 2004. this is a challenge to you, to your people, and to your administration. there is no big or small country: there are good and bad. your economic performance, your recent qualification in the euro zone, the prosperity of your people make you an example which should inspire many countries who are teaching others lessons. you will complete the 'troika' started with germany and continued by portugal and ensure the success of the presidencies of the next 'troika': france, the czech republic and sweden. as i write these lines, i am thinking of kosovo, your brothers in the western balkans and their european future.
in writing. i would like to extend my warmest wishes for the success of the slovenian presidency, which represents a form of consecration of the reunification of europe divided by the cold war. slovenia, which worked with germany and portugal to draw up an 18-month programme, is closing a cycle of presidencies marked by the success of institutional recovery, with the heavy responsibility of accompanying the ratification process of the lisbon treaty. this is a major challenge to which we must all contribute, each one in our respective member states, so that the next french presidency can finally put this new common base in place before the european elections in 2009. the slovenian presidency must also continue and complete the lisbon strategy to respond to the challenges facing europe in the areas of energy and climate, growth and employment. i sincerely hope that the slovenian presidency will succeed in guaranteeing peace and stability in the western balkans and in bringing about a unified eu approach to the final status of kosovo so that 2008 - the european year of intercultural dialogue - can be a genuine opportunity for all europeans to reaffirm their values of tolerance and mutual understanding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the report by my german colleague friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf on the proposal for a regulation on the actions to be taken by the european commission, for the period 2008 to 2013, through the remote sensing applications set up under the common agricultural policy. i support the proposal that remote sensing activities should be financed from a separate budget and not from the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf). while my colleagues believe that it is better to focus on improving the existing website of the agriculture unit of the eu joint research centre so that all the relevant data collected in the course of this research can be made freely available to the public, i am very much in favour of the creation of a spatial data infrastructure and a computer site as proposed by the european commission's objectives. i support the proposals to create an inventory of all spatial data, to develop remote sensing and agro-meteorology projects, and to consolidate the existing infrastructure and computer sites for spatial data for agricultural use.
in writing. on the basis of the excellent report by my german colleague kurt lechner, i welcome the adoption by the european parliament, at second reading under the co-decision procedure, of a legislative resolution on the council's common position with a view to adopting the directive on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to consumer credit, replacing the community framework of 1987, as amended twice. i welcome the european commission's intention to establish the conditions for a genuine internal market in consumer credit, to guarantee a high level of consumer protection and to clarify community legislation by revising the three directives of 1987, 1990 and 1998 on consumer credit. i welcome the important work done by my french colleague, jean-paul gauzès, who, with his wisdom and conviction, has made a major contribution to this important compromise which is useful for economic growth, consumer protection and credit institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report proposing the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to consumer credit. although european households already have the right to seek out bank loans abroad to purchase consumer goods, very few take advantage of this. language barriers, distance and lack of confidence are the most powerful obstacles. the new directive will increase market transparency for the benefit of consumers for loans between eur 200 and eur 75 000. consumers will have the information they need to make informed choices if they decide to buy across borders. in the case of credit offers, the information provided to consumers will be contained in a new european credit information form. consumers will also eventually benefit from a single, comparable overall annual effective rate throughout the eu. the directive will provide consumers with basic information of good quality and easy to compare. the right of withdrawal and the right to repay in advance without paying excessive fees, together with a transparent presentation of their rights and obligations, will give them the confidence to compare prices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise reached by the pse group with the council (amendment no 46), as it allows the balances reached during the german presidency last spring to be maintained. i am glad that the consumer credit as defined in this draft directive has a minimum of eur 200 and a maximum of eur 75 000. i would have preferred, however, that the ceiling had been set at eur 50 000. i am particularly pleased with the qualified majority in the plenary to ensure that the interests of consumers are clearly safeguarded in the event of early repayment of credit. the compensation that the bank may claim will be strictly limited and may be prohibited for loans of less than eur 10 000. in all cases, the fight against over-indebtedness should remain a priority and repayment should be made in a reasonable manner. it is an illusion to think that consumption can be boosted by credit to households: such an approach leads only to impoverishing the most vulnerable consumers. the aim of boosting growth through consumption is to raise wages, not increase credit!
in writing. the report by kurt lechner on the opening of the european consumer credit market was adopted on wednesday 16 january. it seems to me that the transition from a hitherto strongly national market to a european framework, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection, is a first step towards the harmonization of consumer credit rules. the risk of consumer indebtedness remains far too high. it was necessary to monitor and make the solvency of each customer transparent by setting up databases. however, i voted against amendment no 29 on article 16, as did the majority of my colleagues, and i welcome the rejection of it. in my view, this was a real penalty for the consumer who decided to pay off his credit early. the possibility for consumers to terminate credit before it expires is a good initiative. it should not be tainted by an option allowing the lender to claim compensation for any costs in the absence of justified and equitable grounds. so it was necessary to set limits. the lender will therefore not be able to claim compensation exceeding 1% of the amount of the credit.
in writing. the vote on the draft consumer credit directive marks a significant step forward for french ump meps. the final text, thanks to the contribution of the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, kurt lechner, favours the opening of borders in a major area of everyday life, while preserving the acquired rights of consumers, particularly the french consumer. the transposition of the directive will therefore make it possible to offer better credit conditions in the future and to limit the risks of over-indebtedness.
in writing. six years after the euro was introduced, europe still lacked a single banking market that would benefit consumers and enable them to realise the benefits of the single currency. information on rates and conditions of credit will be standardised to allow for better comparison of offers. this will enable consumers to make informed choices and obtain better loan terms. the lender should also clearly inform the customer of the advantages and disadvantages of the loan offer. the question of the right of withdrawal in the case of a tied credit (immediate delivery of the property) and the amount of penalties imposed in the case of early repayment of the loan are clearly framed. these penalties must be "fair and objectively justified". they may not exceed 1% of the amount of the credit being repaid in advance and shall not be authorized in the case of variable rate loans. i am particularly pleased that the member states will be able to provide, as is currently the case in france, that no penalty is required for appropriations of less than eur 10 000, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the report has the great merit of clearly defining the rights of the child, but above all of denouncing in an almost exhaustive way the dangers to which they are exposed: from the confrontation, at an early age, to images of horror, pornography and violence conveyed by the media to honour killings, forced marriages and genital mutilation for cultural or religious reasons. without ever formally mentioning the word 'islam' or 'islamism', which are definitely taboo terms because political correctness and fear of retaliation completely prohibit comments on this religion, let alone criticism, the rapporteur nevertheless, under the cover of generalist language, condemns in the proper way all the discrimination engendered by the practice of islam. the ban on girls taking part in certain classes and sports, such as swimming, and all traditional practices that are barbaric and harmful to young muslim girls are denounced. we welcome that. this report is a first step towards a beginning of freedom of expression and foresight. we will vote in favour.
in writing. on the basis of the excellent report by my german colleague doris pack, i voted for the european parliament resolution on adult education and training and in response to the commission communication entitled adult education and training: it is never too late to learn . education and training, including lifelong learning for adults, are key factors in achieving the lisbon objectives of increasing economic growth, competitiveness and social progress. whether in terms of competitiveness, social inclusion of adults or the challenges of demographic change, this move, which dates back to 2001, is good news for the european union and its citizens. as regards apprenticeship and, more generally, matters relating to enterprises, i suggest that this matter should be left to the social partners, who, as we must constantly remind ourselves, have, within the framework of the current treaties with articles 137 et seq. of the treaty establishing the european community (tec) and this has been confirmed by the treaty of lisbon which is being ratified, legal instruments enabling the construction of a european social law.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i believe that given the current situation, the european union must strive to establish its credibility in relation to the observation missions it sends to these countries. because if it is found, and it is found, with great seriousness, that the result is clearly fraudulent, that the president cannot be considered the legitimately elected president, then the european union must be consistent in its policy starting with and that is really the minimum, by not recognizing the president, in this case mr kibaki. secondly, the union must propose and ensure that new presidential elections are held as soon as possible, so that the president can be elected in good conditions. because, alas, we have precedents, notably in ethiopia, where the president also made a coup to win the presidency despite all, despite the obvious fraud, followed by multiple violent repressions. the acceptance of the fact by the european union contributes to undermining the value of sending observation missions. what is the point of sending european observation missions with the seriousness and commitment of all our colleagues in this field, with conclusions that are unanimously accepted by all, only to accept after a few months, with a big back, the coup d'état of a president who wants to know nothing? would we accept such a situation in our countries? obviously not. so we cannot, in terms of democracy and electoral processes that we support, have a double standard, one that would apply in the european union and the other that would be of variable geometry, depending on the interests of each in these regions. i believe that the kenyan people want to shed light on this situation and are calling for new elections to make things perfectly clear.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report simply proposes that we give a new status to the european police office, europol, by amending the existing legal bases. the aim is to replace the europol convention, concluded in 1995 between the member states, by a council decision transforming this intergovernmental agency into an agency of the european union financed by the union budget and applying the staff regulations of officials of the communities. the reasons for this radical change in status are the extension of the mandate of europol's activities beyond organised crime alone and the inability of the member states to sufficiently ensure these new wide-ranging objectives. the council assures us that these objectives will of course be better achieved at european union level. but all of this is just a sham and a lie. the reality is that we are already in the logic and application of the lisbon treaty which transfers almost all the policy in the field of justice and home affairs to the qualified majority in the council of ministers. until now, these areas of judicial and police cooperation have been the subject of unanimity. the reality is that our european and national leaders are imposing institutional reforms on us, all of which are aimed at deepening the supranational and bureaucratic model. these are the same reforms, contained in the lisbon treaty, that were rejected by the french and dutch in the referendums of may and june 2005. the peoples are deceived, deceived, despised. europe cannot be built against its peoples and against national realities and it is high time that our europeanist political class realised this and finally let europe be built on the basis of the rights to identity, sovereignty, freedom and security of nations and peoples.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 january 2008.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in pakistan following the assassination of benazir bhutto.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, first of all, congratulations to our two rapporteurs. mrs polfer's report is timely because, with the events in georgia, we are witnessing firsthand the difficulties of building democracy. this report is balanced and it takes up the major geostrategic issues in the south caucasus. it is important to remember that the neighbourhood policies commit us to supporting and accompanying these countries. we have a political and moral responsibility towards them, but they also have a responsibility towards us, particularly in the field of human rights and freedom of expression, as you have said, commissioner. for these three countries too, our support must be more focused on conflict resolution. at present, the union is merely managing them. without a political compromise between armenia and azerbaijan on nagorno-karabakh, without a peace plan between georgia on the one hand and south ossetia and abkhazia on the other, these countries will not be able to develop relations of trust and establish lasting stability between themselves and with their major neighbours. as far as the support for democracy is concerned, we live it every day. unfortunately, the events that have shaken georgia have plunged it into a political crisis from which it still has no way out, as the opposition is contesting in the streets the results of the first round of the presidential elections. it is true that in responding to the president's call for his resignation, mr saakashvili has taken the opposition lightly, leaving him only a limited time to organise the elections. it is true that this election campaign was not fair, since two candidates were able to deploy considerable resources compared to the others. while the campaign was tainted with allegations and revelations of post-election coup orchestration by an opposition candidate, it is worth noting that on election day - and we were there as observers - no major incidents were reported by observers, who have never been so numerous in such a small country to observe elections. together with the international community and national and international ngos, we were able to witness the freedom of expression of citizens in general, although many irregularities and intimidation were noted, but nothing systematic. in our conclusion we stressed the obligation to pursue legal procedures, to take all complaints into account and to consider the final results only after considering all the disputes, and dozens of polling stations were thus cancelled. today, however, the situation is far from resolved and we must continue to call on georgian leaders, from all political parties, to resume and continue the dialogue. the authorities must listen to the opposition's demands, the opposition, which has gained credibility in these elections, must take its share of responsibility to propose compromises, because georgia really needs to regain its place, the one it had after the rose revolution, that of a country that has turned the page on violence and instability. that is what the georgian people are asking for and what they are asking the european union for today, and we must stand by them.
mr president, on reading this report, one might say: 'nothing new in the west'. the same observation: the persistence of stereotypes in the choice of educational and vocational orientation, the overrepresentation of women in certain sectors such as the textile sector, the inequality of wages, working conditions and career prospects, but also the same recommendations: to promote equality between men and women in the professional field, in terms of remuneration, their presence on the boards of companies or to develop childcare structures and work flexibility. all right, but then what? what will this report on women's rights, whether in industry or not, change in practical terms? despite the coercive policies based on the so-called positive action policy - a misleading wording, since it is actually a matter of mandatory quotas - gender-related mindsets have difficulty evolving. it is not by imposing schemes which are sometimes unnatural, in the name of the principles of equality and non-discrimination, that women will find their place more naturally in any type of company. women do not have such a significant disability that they have to be systematically imposed in order to be accepted. encouragement measures should not be coercive. in the application of the charter of fundamental rights, let us not forget that every employer is free to recruit whomever he wishes, provided that every employee is treated equally, regardless of his sex.
mr president, i welcome the fact that parliament has taken the initiative in producing this report because, although the role of women in the industrial sector is absolutely crucial, their employment situation remains, on the whole, much more precarious than that of men. the report thus highlights a whole series of discriminations against women which must be tackled urgently, in particular their confinement to certain branches and types of employment characterised by low wages and limited career prospects, their overrepresentation among atypical workers and particularly those in parttime employment, or their difficulties in reintegrating into working life under good conditions following maternity leave. among the ways of remedying this unfortunate situation, the idea of giving a distinction to companies which promote the reconciliation of work and family life seems to me interesting and the improvement of women's career prospects should indeed be encouraged by a strengthening of lifelong learning. i have a few regrets, however, about the form of this report. i think that the text is too long and not structured enough, which makes it difficult to read and makes it less effective.
in writing. while the report on the role of women in industry rightly highlights the many difficulties faced by women in the world of work and in certain economic sectors, the proposals in the text raise two questions. on the one hand, the report seems to forget the limits of the legislator's intervention. the european legal arsenal is currently one of the most extensive in the world in the area of women's rights and gender equality. it is therefore now up to elected officials and citizens to mobilize to ensure that the rights of women in the european union are respected. as a result, the usefulness of a further declaration of intent is rather limited. on the other hand, the report makes a curious suggestion: to suggest that a quota of women on the boards of public limited companies be established by law is a serious infringement of individual freedom and does not do women much good. the treatment of the latter in terms of charity rather than equity tends to exclude them a little more from certain sectors of society. our fellow citizens now expect us to support them in a concrete way by putting our words into action.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the second internet governance forum was held in rio from 12 to 15 november and attracted 2 100 participants from all continents representing internet stakeholders from all public and private sectors. the forum provides a favourable context for finding solutions to future ict issues. through a common culture and partnership, it facilitates the decisions to be taken at the forthcoming world summits on the information society and also by our states. it also makes it possible to carry out an open reflection, which is in keeping with the complexity of the internet, and even to anticipate its technical, ethical and legal limits, since the stakes are high in addition to the subjects dear to the union: reducing the digital divide, freedom of expression on the web, cultural diversity, protection of children - to name a few others - radio frequency identification, irfid, i.e. in fine the constitution of an internet of things, the risks of saturation of networks in the 2010-2012 horizon, digitisation, especially of property, the cultural consequences generated for the protection of intellectual property and the development of access to ict in the least developed countries. europe is at the forefront of the legislative apparatus. for us europeans, this is encouraging, but we are not going to fall asleep. many of these legal or regulatory issues are being brought back into the picture with the revision of the telecom package. i call for a new phase of political work and concrete prospective work, in particular through the creation of a european igf via national parliaments and local authorities. the european forum to be implemented by 2009, possibly a world forum in europe thanks to the candidate lithuania for 2010. as head of the delegation, i want to thank all the members, colleagues and officials for their work and availability. the resolution we are about to vote on is a road map. i am glad that it has the support of all the groups in this parliament. more parliamentary committees are invited to help strengthen this action, and i would like to thank the commission and ask it to engage the collegiate nature of its body in support of mrs reding. finally, i would like to ask the council to include in its agenda relations with india, preparations for the forum in new delhi and for all states to be able to commit themselves to enhanced cooperation.
mr. hannan, my sense of humor is equal to yours. i still wonder how you will get the word "referendum" back. you're doing a great job on every subject.
in accordance with the decision of the plenary, the further explanations of vote will take place after the votes this afternoon.
in writing. the french delegation of the epp-ed group welcomes the adoption of the cashman report on the adoption of a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2007-2012. this includes the definition of the specific thematic areas of its activities in order to enable it to fulfil its mission and objectives as effectively as possible. the majority of the french delegation, according to its group, rejected the amendments of the liberal group to extend its tasks to include homophobia and homophobic violence on the one hand and racism against roma on the other, not because it was opposed to this legitimate and justified fight, but because these tasks are already covered by the proposal for a decision which specifically lists racism, xenophobia and related intolerance as one of the thematic areas of the agency's activities, as well as discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or membership of a minority. we welcome the adoption of this report which will enable the agency to become fully operational in order to fulfil its task and guarantee the rights of the citizens of the union.
in writing. the french delegation of the epp-ed group welcomes the adoption of the cashman report on the adoption of a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2007-2012. this includes the definition of the specific thematic areas of its activities in order to enable it to fulfil its mission and objectives as effectively as possible. the french delegation, like its group, rejected the amendments of the liberal group to extend its tasks to include homophobia and homophobic violence on the one hand and racism against roma on the other, not because it was opposed to this fight, which is legitimate and justified, but because these tasks are already covered by the proposal for a decision which specifically lists racism, xenophobia and related intolerance as one of the agency's thematic areas of action, as well as discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or membership of a minority. we all welcome the adoption of this report which will enable the agency to become fully operational in order to fulfil its task and guarantee the rights of the citizens of the union.
in writing. like the french delegation to the epp-ed group, i welcome the adoption of the cashman report on the adoption of a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2007-2012. this text defines, among other things, the precise thematic areas of the activity in order to enable it to fulfil its mission and objectives in the best possible way. like the french delegation and the ppe-de group, i rejected the amendments tabled by the liberal group to extend the agency's remit to cover homophobia and homophobic violence on the one hand and racism against the roma on the other. these tasks are already covered by the proposal for a decision which specifically provides, among the thematic areas of action of the agency, for racism, xenophobia and related intolerance, discrimination on grounds of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation or membership of a minority. i welcome the adoption of this report, which will enable the agency to become fully operational and guarantee the rights of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. the council's ruse has been a great success: to transform the european police office, europol, from an intergovernmental agency financed from the budgets of the member states into an agency of the european union financed from the union budget and applying the staff regulations of officials of the communities, all while arguing for technical imperatives rather than political ones. the council considers that the new objectives will be better achieved at union level than at member state level, as europol's tasks have been considerably extended to areas other than organised crime. and so, in the name of the very questionable principle of subsidiarity, the europeanist logic of systematically divesting the powers of the states and deepening the supranational model applies. this is exactly the philosophy and the meaning of the reforms contained in the lisbon treaty, which all the european and national leaders want to impose on the peoples and nations against their will. europe is no longer listening to its people. worse, she despises them and lies to them. while 26 european countries have already announced that they will not ratify this treaty by means of a referendum, let us hope that the salvation of the nations and peoples of europe will be the rejection of this text of abandonment by the irish, who alone are allowed to speak.
madam president, president barroso has set us an ambitious target for renewable energy production, all of which is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions without jeopardising growth prospects. but that is where i have a problem with the commission. the commission wishes to base its calculations on the gross domestic product of each member state, and this seems to me to be inadequate. it seems to me absolutely essential that the overall effort to reduce emissions expected from each member state by 2020 should vary according to the initial level of those emissions per capita, without prejudice, of course, to solidarity mechanisms between states. in other words, the overall share of non-carbon energy in each country's energy mix must be taken into account. in short, objectives and means must not be confused. the guiding principle is of course to reduce greenhouse gases, to achieve a decarbonisation of the economy as the council conclusions of march 2007 stressed.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the reasons which led my group to propose that there should be a debate on this matter are the same as those which led us to propose that there should be a resolution in february: it is the opportunity to hear mr solana and then the opportunity for parliament to express its own position, and this for three reasons. the first is, of course, the blockade of gaza, which we consider to be a collective punishment that is absolutely intolerable from a humanitarian point of view, counterproductive from a political point of view and ineffective from the point of view of israel's security. secondly, the new situation has come about with the opening of the border, as a result of the intervention of the people of gaza. thirdly, and most importantly, the european response to the question: 'what can we do now to make this opening last in a controlled and stable way and to make this a step forward in the overall perspective of the peace process?' i think it is useful today to hear mr solana and to debate and, in february, to conclude this debate with a resolution.
mr president, for me, mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner, there is no difference between civilian and military nuclear energy. you explained to us, mr solana, that to make a bomb, all that was needed was uranium. i think it would be a bit naive to believe that a country with impressive natural resources like iran needs nuclear energy to develop. but we know very well that it needs nuclear energy to make the bomb. you also said that nuclear was a destabilizing factor and that we had no hold on iran. you're absolutely right. when you propose a ban on enrichment, we are in full agreement. i would go even further: i think we should ban nuclear weapons altogether. at present, only 4% of the world's energy is nuclear. the question i ask you, mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner, is this: do you not think that france, together with our president, mr sarkozy, is playing with fire and global instability by signing nuclear agreements with countries such as libya, china and georgia? could we not use the unfortunate experience with iran to stop the proliferation of nuclear energy on a global scale?
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr high representative, madam commissioner, the hostage-taking of a population has failed. it was a pedagogy of another age, which could not work, but the worst thing is that the situation has worsened, politically and humanly. so, indeed, we have to ask questions. the policy of isolating hamas and, therefore, isolating gaza has failed. today, hamas' popularity in gaza has grown. there is something very strange, mr high representative, commissioner: you said 'let the palestinians take back control of the borders', but how can the palestinian authority take back control of gaza? the borders are not the west bank. that is a problem. the other problem is the borders of gaza. and you have a treaty between egypt and israel, which makes it illegal for egyptians in sinai to have weapons. it's the agreement of 20 years ago, the peace treaty. so even if the egyptians wanted to try to stop terrorists in the sinai, they can't, they don't have the right. so we are in a completely crazy situation and in this crazy situation, it is true, you have to take responsibility. the responsibility is that first of all the people of gaza must have the opportunity to live and for that we must negotiate with those who are administratively in power in gaza. we can't say, "we want to give them something to drink, we want to give them food, we want to give them medicine, but we don't want to talk to those who can get the medicine to them". secondly, it must be said that the palestinian people will believe in peace when peace brings them something. today, in the west bank, there are no borders that have improved, there is no free movement that has improved. peace is not abstract. peace is tangible. that is why it is necessary, for the sake of israel's security - the rockets will not stop in the present situation - to say to israel: 'the blockade is something that makes life unlivable for the palestinians and therefore endangers israel's security.' that's the truth! and we have to tell mr. bush, "you're not gonna be here in a few months anyway. so shut up and let the others, who have a better understanding of the situation, do the politics". israeli policy following american policy or the opposite is a failure, which we cannot support. so the european union must not just say 'go', but 'go in the right direction, talk to those responsible and talk to the israeli officials', it must say that our solidarity with israel does not mean that we continue to support it in a completely suicidal policy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr high representative, madam commissioner, the heroes of gaza have once again proved that fortified walls cannot imprison the free spirit of humanity and that violence cannot subjugate life. these are the words of nurit peled, an israeli peace activist who won the sakharov prize. she spoke them last saturday, among other palestinian and israeli protesters at the gates of gaza. how can we not share the emotion of this mother courage at the sight of this people oppressed and humiliated to the point of unbearable, forcing the blockade imposed by israel and finally breathing the air outside, time to find milk for the children, food for the family and a little happiness for morale. what's the matter now? everyone sees the double danger looming from the side of israel's leaders. the first is the will to close, or to force to close, that tiny space of freedom. the second, more general, is to rid egypt of the responsibility of the occupying power towards gaza. if the words of the council statement of 28 january are to have any real meaning, the european union must agree to exert pressure on the israeli authorities, directly and within the framework of the quartet, beyond the usual convoluted circumstances, so that they accept the principle of a lasting opening of the crossing points, under the responsibility of the palestinian authority and with the support of the european union and the arab league. if the palestinian authority continues to be deprived of any means of offering any positive outcome to its people and of working towards the necessary palestinian national reconciliation, this would be tantamount to accepting the policy of the worst. so far, i'm afraid we're moving at a leisurely pace. everyone understands that we need a response from the international community, now, on gaza, on the west bank, including east jerusalem. this outburst will not come from a worn-out, discredited american president. let europe play!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, i admit, mr minister, that this is probably the new european policy. it reminds me of my son when he was four. when asked "where are you?" he would put both hands in front of his eyes and say "i'm not here". and here the commission says to us: 'we are not here! it has nothing to do with us and nothing to do with europe". sorry, that is just absolute nonsense! either we decide now that we want a common european foreign and security policy? we even have a new treaty, whereby we have our own foreign minister for a common foreign and security policy. and if we have a foreign minister, then we must discuss it at european level, not as individual states with other individual states discussing their security, or as herr von wogau says, the whole of europe is threatened by iran, or i don't know by whom. i am not of this opinion, but in any case we must discuss this at european level. we cannot simply say that the americans have some spinnerish idea. maybe mr. bush will be gone in six months, and then you'll have that spinnerish idea gone. but we europeans have nothing to do with it. we are very sceptical about this whole missile defence strategy, but we are firmly convinced that this is something we in europe must discuss as europeans. it is not a decision of the polish or the czech members, or whose members also always morgen rumania, bulgaria, übermorgen sicily , but we have a common interest in it, about our security to make decisions. this is basically laid down in the treaty, which you have ratified and which we want to ratify: a common foreign and security policy. and that is why this must be the european union's theme. the decision must not be taken bilaterally between poland and the united states or between the czech republic and the united states. it is a european decision, it is a european problem, and we must solve it in a european way.
madam president, i believe that what we are voting on tomorrow is historic, since since the dawn of time, and especially since the monarchy, the post office has always been open to the public. it was because the distribution of the mail is strategic. it was also designed to ensure a universal and rapid service. we have just ended, or will end tomorrow, public postal control in favour of a largely deregulated postal market. what this directive offers us will first of all be a tremendous market for lawyers and legal professionals, since it is not a harmonization: each member state will be able to choose its own method of financing, and there are four different ones! what this directive also proposes is to compensate for the financing of universal service, which is an absolute paradox, by means of state aid, whereas in some countries the system of equalization ensured that where it was profitable, we financed what was not. i think we're making a mistake. the future will tell us, but we already have the evidence to judge today. more than €880 million injected into the uk post office; the spanish postal service, which, under pressure from competition, has just decided to stop serving rural areas by direct postal service; the german people, who have difficulty in making the minimum wage compatible with the postal market. i believe that we are serving the companies today - we are going to offer them a squeeze on the market - but we are not serving the general postal interest and the external competitiveness of the european union. that's how i feel.
in writing. i welcome the adoption, at second reading, of the common position with the council amending the 1997 postal directive and aimed at completing the internal market for postal services and i congratulate my excellent german colleague markus ferber on the immense work he has done. i am pleased that the council has accepted all the main elements of the european parliament's position, including the postponement of the general date of application to 31 december 2010 with a two-year extension for the states which became members of the union from 2004; the universal service with at least one distribution and one lifting 5 days a week for each citizen of the union with the maintenance of a sufficient number of access points in rural, isolated or sparsely populated areas; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i regret that the basis for a european regulator in this sector has not been laid. finally, i hope that the operators will soon agree to introduce a european stamp for the 50 gram letter and i will take a political initiative on this subject in the near future.
madam president, the bali conference reminded us that global warming is a challenge for development. there are fears that global warming will widen the gap between the developed world and the developing world, which will undoubtedly be the most affected by the impacts of climate change. this is particularly true for islands, which are vulnerable in more ways than one, including cyclones and rising sea levels. i therefore believe that assistance for the adaptation of these countries and the transfer of appropriate technologies must be a priority. the fight against climate change has become inseparable from poverty reduction and the achievement of the millennium development goals. this is the best way, it seems to me, to get the g77 to join. if the process leading to copenhagen in 2009 is to be successful and bali's modest roadmap is to be enriched, it will be imperative to make progress towards developing countries. i have noticed that this has caught the attention of the union and i am glad of that. but i am very much drawing attention to the case of the islands.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 31 january 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission president josé manuel barroso presented the legislative package on climate change and energy last week. we can only welcome the spirit of the commission's proposals. many areas are affected by these issues, including the housing sector and, more particularly, social housing. we are aware that a significant part of the social housing stock in the union is affected by these necessary developments. the costs of heating and other services are a major expense for the tenant, which needs to be controlled and even reduced. the evolution of social housing is therefore part of these sustainable development policies and requires appropriate financing to meet these new requirements. the commission has so far focused funding on the new entrants, thus receiving substantial support. the same is not true for the former member states. however, national housing policies require substantial financial support to accelerate social housing changes. for the policies described to be credible, action must also be accompanied by words. the commission will have to draw all the consequences and finance the developments in social housing throughout the union.
we ended with the one-minute speech, a little longer than usual. i think that's the longest one-minute speech in the history of this parliament. it had to happen sometime.
the agenda calls for the report by fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the energy efficiency action plan: realising the potential (2007/2106 (ini)) (a6-0003/2008).
madam president, i too would like to express my appreciation of the approach proposed by our rapporteur to remedy this waste of resources, which is rightly denounced by the current practice of dumping. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new type of pollution, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new types of pollution. it therefore preferred to propose the gradual introduction of a series of measures to encourage fishermen themselves to change their fishing methods and gear, which was widely approved by the commission.
mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased to be addressing this matter this evening, because when we discussed the report by mr olbrycht, i expressed my confidence in it. it so happens that yesterday this subject was discussed in the french national assembly by the parliament, and - which is worth noting because it is not very frequent - all the political groups applauded the creation of this egtc, and the examples were multiplied to explain how, in the north of france, in the south of france, in the alps, in lorraine, there was material to implement this egtc very quickly. this was based, in particular, as you said, on the example of lille, which was signed last monday for two million inhabitants in belgium and france. why did it provoke such great hope? that is because, for three or four years, our colleagues have been looking for legal formulas and have not found them. with the gect, they found the solution. we now expect that the 70 000 french people who work every day in luxembourg, the 30 000 french people who work in monaco and italy, and the same number in spain, etc., will be able to foster new collaborations with the gect. commissioner, i am expecting you and my colleagues to give a boost to the states which are lagging behind. in addition to the regulatory constraints, you can tell them that some countries are happily implementing it, with pleasure.
mr president, we are at a decisive turning point for the european parliament in the establishment of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice, and the adoption of the treaty of lisbon makes it possible to strengthen democratic and judicial control. of course, i would like to support the requests of my colleagues to find, on the basis of an interinstitutional political agreement, a list of priorities on which we could work in advance codecision. the full participation of the european parliament can only enhance the quality of decisions and sometimes, as we have already seen, make it possible to reach an agreement. this cannot of course be done without involving the national parliaments in this debate. and i propose that we also anticipate the enhanced role conferred on them by the new treaty. one of our priorities, of course, must also be data protection. you won't be surprised if i come back. as you know, we have encouraged the adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar. and of course we welcome the new consultation of the european parliament on this subject. however, we are extremely concerned about the poor results achieved in the council on this text, precisely because of the unanimity rule. given that the pillars will soon be removed, and in order to ensure a real protection of the privacy of our fellow citizens, do you not think that one solution would be to amend the existing data protection directives so that they also apply to police and judicial cooperation? the need to ensure a high level of data protection is all the more important as this must also govern the proposal to establish a european pnr. this is an important question i'm asking you, and i'd like an answer.
mr president, i should like to mention three questions which are particularly close to my heart. the first concerns how we will approach the phase before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. like all my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would like to see us agreeing, at interinstitutional level, to anticipate the new provisions applicable to our area of competence. this seems to me to be the essential condition for effective and transparent cooperation. the new rules on the role of national parliaments should also be tested this year. as rapporteur on the framework decision on combating terrorism, i have also committed myself to working closely and in a structured way with the latter. with regard to the subject of terrorism, an overview of the various texts already adopted would make it easier to understand their respective scope of application and their interconnection. moreover, if the fight against terrorism is to be a priority for the union, so too must be the protection of fundamental freedoms. i will therefore be extremely vigilant, when working on the framework decision, to ensure that the definitions and terms used are clear in order to eliminate any potential risk of infringement of these freedoms, and in particular freedom of expression. i would like to say a few words about our future action on immigration. the union's main concern has long been to have a real legislative arsenal to combat illegal immigration, without this attitude of protecting borders being counterbalanced by a policy of legal immigration worthy of the name. i therefore welcome the initiatives taken in recent years in this area and hope that the political will to support a welcoming europe will be as strong as it has been to defend a fortress europe.
mr president, i have been patient for a few days, for a few weeks. now there are limits. we have not yet made a decision within our group. this is intolerable, we are going to take internal sanctions at group level and i will ask for mr hannan's exclusion at group level. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, the rules are as follows. when explanations of vote have been given on a subject, the presidency does not in principle - and i say in principle - take speakers on the same subject, but in view of the sensitivity of the subject, i propose that you derogate from this rule and give the floor to all the members who have asked for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my british colleague michael cashman, at first reading and under the codecision procedure, on the simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders of the union based on the unilateral recognition by bulgaria, the czech republic, cyprus, latvia, hungary, malta, poland, romania, slovenia and slovakia of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purpose of transit through their territory. i welcome the amendments tabled by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to take account of the new situation in the schengen area and the fact that since 21 december 2007 a large number of the countries covered by the scheme have become part of the schengen area without internal borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished cypriot colleague panayiotis demetriou, in first reading and under the codecision procedure, on the amendment of the 2006 decision establishing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders, based on the unilateral recognition by the member states of certain residence permits issued by switzerland and liechtenstein for the purpose of transit through their territory. i also approve the technical amendments proposed by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which are intended to bring the proposed text closer to the original provisions and those concerning the territorial provisions.
in writing. this text, initiated by austria, provides for the possibility for a member state to request the assistance of a special intervention unit from another member state in order to control a crisis situation (hostage-taking, aircraft hijacking). such assistance could consist either in the provision of specific equipment or know-how or in the possibility of carrying out an operation in the territory of the requesting member state. we are in favour of this text for a number of reasons. firstly, because this instrument, which is intended to combat terrorism, is not binding since it does not oblige the member states either to request such assistance or to respond favourably to it. the text also provides that all practical arrangements (types of units, equipment, etc.) are to be referred to bilateral agreements between the requesting member state and the requested member state. in the fight against terrorism, which by definition knows no borders, it is very important to work for the most effective cooperation between the national police forces of the union. at a time when all matters relating to justice and the internal affairs of the states will become a matter of supranational competence with the treaty of lisbon, an intergovernmental pole of resistance seems to remain: we welcome this.
in writing. the text before us aims to provide a legal framework for operations carried out by special intervention units of one member state, sent to the territory of another, in the event of a terrorist attack. given the diversity of these interventions: exchange of equipment, know-how, active units, etc., it is left to the member states to conclude bilateral conventions for the definition of all the practical arrangements and the possibility of having the choice of accepting or refusing the request for intervention on its territory of one of these operational units. i can't believe this. finally, here is a real case of application of the controversial and complicated principle of subsidiarity! finally, there is the area of national security, which is certainly a royal domain par excellence, and which resists the supranational bulldozer of a europe which legislates on everything and everywhere. europe is therefore counting on the cooperation of national police forces to combat terrorism effectively. we support this initiative. but the key to victory over terrorism is not just in this cooperation. it requires an awareness of the revolutionary will of the islamic international which advocates the destruction of western, humanistic and christian society and its values.
in writing. science knows no frontiers, and the questions underlying research are increasingly global in nature. the european research area (era) must ensure that scientific and technological cooperation contributes effectively to the stability, security and prosperity of humanity. i would therefore like the era, in its openness to the world, to give a special place to the eu's outermost regions (ors), in order to exploit the advantages and wealth offered by europe's regional diversity, by integrating them into research programmes in a coherent way, within the framework of 'networks of excellence'. i also urge the era to recognise the importance of the overseas countries and territories (octs) as valuable partners in building bridges between nations and continents for sustainable global development, in order to address the challenges facing the planet. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for supporting my amendment on this subject in the opinion of the committee on regional development. this is further proof of the spirit of coordination and complementarity that prevails in our parliament.
in writing. i welcome the adoption, at second reading, of the common position with the council amending the 1997 postal directive and aimed at completing the internal market for postal services and i congratulate my excellent german colleague markus ferber on the immense work he has done. i am pleased that the council has accepted all the main elements of the european parliament's position, including the postponement of the general date of application to 31 december 2010 with a two-year extension for the states which became members of the union from 2004; the universal service with at least one distribution and one lifting 5 days a week for each citizen of the union with the maintenance of a sufficient number of access points in rural, isolated or sparsely populated areas; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i regret that the basis for a european regulator in this sector has not been laid. finally, i hope that the operators will soon agree to introduce a european stamp for the 50 gram letter and i will take a political initiative on this subject in the near future.
in writing. despite the improvements made to the commission's original text and the compromise proposed by the european parliament, in particular to postpone the full liberalisation of the postal market to 31 december 2010, the text presented to us at second reading by the council is still not satisfactory. it is not, because it only summarily and minimally resolves the questions and problems raised concerning, in particular, the financing of the universal service, the obligation to distribute mail five days a week or the equal treatment of territories and the existence of a single stamp tariff. it is not, because the legal uncertainty is the result of all these points. in reality, this text, which is only a hard-won consensus, merely delays the inevitable uncontrolled consequences of opening up the postal sector to competition. the european union's plans will inevitably result in an increase in post office closures, large-scale job cuts and a race to the bottom on wages and working conditions in the european postal sector.
in writing. i have been opposed to the liberalization of the postal services market on three fundamental grounds: - the need for free postal services for blind and partially sighted people, which is a vital value in a non-discriminatory society. (ii) the member states must ensure that universal service is financed before markets are opened, which is essential for consumer protection. - compliance by all operators with labour legislation, including social security. the amendments in question have not been adopted, and i can only regret this drift towards uncontrolled liberalization of the public postal service, which does not respect the fundamental rights of european citizens.
in writing. the resolution on iran voted today is of definite political importance. iran is at the centre of international concern and we had to come back to this. this text deals with both the nuclear issue and the human rights situation. on these two points we are clear. we cannot accept the development of a military nuclear programme in iran. the resolution expresses agreement and support for the eu's efforts to reach a lasting negotiated settlement of the iranian nuclear issue and underlines the essential role to be played by the iaea. it also reiterated that a solution to the current escalation of the nuclear issue was possible and that no military action should be considered. on the other hand, serious and repeated violations of human rights must be strongly denounced. the situation is worrying in four areas: the death penalty, women's rights, freedom of expression and repression of religious minorities. it seemed to me absolutely essential not to be complacent about this and the resolution strongly calls on the iranian government to change course on this matter.
in writing. the un security council will adopt a resolution once again sanctioning iran for its nuclear activities. will he consider sponsoring a military operation against this country ? just toughen up the tone and imagine diplomatic or economic sanctions? this expertly staged psychodrama has been keeping this parliament and other international bodies in suspense for months. but is iran's nuclear capability really the main threat facing the world in general, and the west and its allies in particular? it is quite paradoxical that we are not reacting to the pakistani nuclear weapons, which actually exist in a particularly unstable geopolitical context. or the north korean one, in the hands of a more than dangerous regime. i have already had the opportunity to say that the rules of law which we are calling for must be the same for everyone. otherwise, they lose their meaning and legitimacy. i am much more concerned about the islamist threats to our continent, which, far from being hypothetical, have already demonstrated their murderous capacity in london and madrid, without any involvement from iran. it is true that this threat is one of the consequences of the mass immigration policy you are pursuing and want to make worse.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the united nations framework convention on climate change, held from 3 to 15 december in bali, was to set a timetable for the next two years and agree to extend the kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012. the first objective seems to have been achieved, but the second is still far from being achieved. it is very regrettable that the international community has not been able to agree on a quantified target of stabilising and then reducing global greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. the european union must strengthen the constructive and driving role it was able to play in bali so as not to provide pretexts for refusing to act to countries which reject any quantified objective. while the bali agreement, signed by all the countries present, is to be welcomed, we must not give way to a new form of 'environmental wood talk'. there are now two years to go before an agreement can be reached and the hesitations over the road map indicate that the hardest part is yet to come.
in writing. beyond the usual anti-warming talk about global warming and the measures to be taken to combat it, the question of the energy security and independence of the european states would in itself justify a better use of energy. that is the reason why we will not vote against this report, since most standards are drawn up at european level. but in this case we are faced with the malthusian and culpabilising view which is present in all the reports of this parliament on this subject: blind stigmatisation of motorists, prohibition of certain equipment, the desire to dictate individual behaviour and to enslave individuals from an early age, to interfere in urban planning or construction policies, to promote taxation and energy pricing which in fact will only penalise the most vulnerable sections of the population... so yes to minimum standards, yes to encouraging research, yes to objective information that allows an informed choice, yes to promoting tax incentives. no to persecution and beatings.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which follows on from the march 2007 european council conclusions on energy efficiency, which stressed the need to increase energy efficiency in the eu in order to achieve the target of saving 20% of eu energy consumption compared to projections for the year 2020. i welcome the measures to improve the energy performance of products, buildings and services, to improve the efficiency of energy production and distribution, to reduce the impact of transport on energy consumption, to facilitate the financing and implementation of investments in the field aimed at stimulating and strengthening rational behaviour towards energy consumption. european citizens must be able to benefit from the world's most energy-efficient infrastructure (including buildings), products (e.g. appliances and cars), processes and services. the action plan will also strengthen industrial competitiveness, increase exports of new technologies and have positive effects on employment. the savings will also offset the investment in innovative technologies.
parliament has exhausted its agenda. wishing everyone a good appetite, especially our london visitors who, as you have understood, belong to the most beautiful city in the world, the capital of the most beautiful country, and who will one day realize that it also belongs to the most beautiful continent. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
mr president, in international law this is very clear. in the case of kosovo, there is a state when there is: first, a population, second, a territory, third, public services. there are no public services in kosovo, and the european commission must go there. the only service that works is the mafia's. a state is sovereign when its jurisdiction is plenary. the proof, as the president of parliament said to us earlier, is that kosovo's jurisdiction is in sovereign control. a state is sovereign when its jurisdiction is autonomous, autonomos in greek, that is to say, it decides for itself what it does. but now it is nato, it is the united states that decides. a state is sovereign when it has exclusive jurisdiction. but on the territory of kosovo there are different forces, not just one force. a state is sovereign when it respects the principle of uti possidetis, the inviolability of frontiers. in other words, none of the characteristics of international law to be sovereign exists in kosovo. then why? because after the rogue states and the mafia states, we have invented the laboratory states, where the european commission tests and invents federalism by disintegration.
in writing. the pomés ruiz report rightly believes that there is still a long way to go before financial transparency is achieved. analysis of the commission's dg budget's 2006 annual activity report has shown us how far we still have to go before achieving transparency of eu accounts. the control of cap funds, for example, shows that the instruments at the commission's disposal do not always allow it to guarantee the accuracy of the data provided by the member states. to avoid repeating the past, the commission will have to improve the information given to the public about the beneficiaries of community funds by taking concrete measures quickly: streamlining the information published on the beneficiaries of community funds, creating a general search engine, publishing a 'black list' of fraud cases, etc. in order to ensure rigorous, effective and transparent control of community funds allocated to member states, the commission should in future assume political responsibility for the information it publishes.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague jean-pierre audy, who is the rapporteur for the opinion on behalf of budgetary control, has been prevented from speaking at the last minute, so i will speak on his behalf. the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations plays a decisive role in the proper functioning of the internal market. this is a matter of vital importance for the protection of the community's financial interests, but also for the financial interests of european economic agents and citizens. the customs investigation file identifier allows for more efficient coordination between the different services of the member states and the commission. some of the amendments are intended to transpose the court's proposals in order to increase the usefulness of this file. the rapporteur shares the court's concerns about the integrated approach in the management of the different databases on anti-fraud, but considers that this discussion goes beyond this regulation and should be conducted in a different context. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in the absence of a more homogeneous legal framework, an increasingly coherent approach in the medium term could be ensured through the exchange of best practice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the rapporteur for the opinion also wants to safeguard the legislative procedure for deciding on other communication and information exchange systems, including the compulsory opinion of the court of auditors, instead of applying the comitology procedure.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and his cooperation on this particularly sensitive subject. at a time when trade with third countries, as well as within the union, is steadily increasing, the increasing openness of markets and the increase in trade represent one of the factors for europe's development in the coming years. the gradual removal of the barriers which once encircled the european economic area, however, opens the door to a whole series of fraudulent operations which threaten the viability of the internal market and whose first victims are to be found among community producers and, by extension, among european consumers. this problem is particularly acute in the agricultural sector, whose indispensable system of financial aid and solidarity with its peasants attracts the greed of both small and large international crime. in this context, faced with the shortcomings of the current control tools, europe is about to adopt new regulations, which should allow for better data sharing between member states regarding the movement of goods and ongoing investigations in the different countries of the union. i welcome the compromise reached with the council, which today makes it possible to have a balanced text, the terms of which will be put to the vote of the members of the european parliament tomorrow. while protecting privacy, it should lead to more efficient surveillance procedures and better coordination of action between each member state. in the field of customs controls, as elsewhere, i am convinced that europe can only be achieved through greater convergence of our efforts and the pooling of our respective resources, in order to provide our citizens with the level of protection they seek. in this sense, the improvement of measures to combat fraud cannot be achieved without maintaining a consistent level of regulation, which is essential to maintain a sound and efficient management of trade in the union and with third countries.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the end of three years of work and i am pleased with the progress made on the important points of this dossier. the customs union is a cornerstone of the european union and an essential element of the functioning of the internal market. the current community customs code, which was drawn up in the 1980s and came into force in the 1990s, is outdated. customs services today face new challenges. in 2007, world trade was around usd 16 trillion, or 31% of world gdp, and the european union alone accounts for 20% of the total volume of world imports and exports. customs must therefore ensure the flow of trade, while carrying out the necessary checks and ensuring the protection of the health and safety of community citizens. to achieve a good balance, control methods must be modernised and cooperation between the various departments and economic operators strengthened. the code also needs to be adapted to other radical changes in the international trade environment, in particular the increasing and irreversible use of information technology and the exchange of electronic data. this particular aspect was the subject of a report by my colleague christopher heaton-harris, which was adopted by this house last december. the first reading of the modernised customs code was adopted on 12 december 2006 and the german presidency reached a political agreement on 25 june 2007. the european parliament adopted 51 amendments at first reading, 34 of which, most of them essential, were incorporated in whole or in part in the council's common position. the thorny points of the case were the authorized economic operator, the right of customs representation, centralised customs clearance and comitology. the concept of authorised economic operator, directly linked to the events of 11 september, was introduced by the so-called 'security amendment' regulation in order to increase the facilities for operators in compensation for the new burdens linked to the consideration of the security dimension. your rapporteur is pleased that parliament has taken up the idea put forward at first reading of distinguishing between two types of authorization: customs simplification on the one hand and security and safety on the other. this pragmatic solution takes account of the different needs of economic operators. the right to be represented at customs was a matter of great concern in countries where the profession was particularly well established. if the council did not exactly take up parliament's proposals, it was nevertheless based on the idea of combining customs representative and authorized economic operator, as we wished. your rapporteur believes that the council has reached a good compromise. moreover, this solution satisfies the associations of customs representatives, which have lost their monopoly in some member states. as regards centralised customs clearance, another major innovation, the council introduced a new article, article 106, considering that it was preferable, for reasons of logic and transparency, to integrate all the provisions of the code relating to this concept into a single article. from now on, all economic operators can benefit from centralised customs clearance in the territory of the same member state. to benefit from it in several member states, they will have to meet the criteria of the status of authorised economic operator. finally, among the major advances in this area, we can also welcome the extension of the comitology procedure with scrutiny to 44 provisions of the modernised customs code. i therefore ask the european parliament to support the council's common position without any amendments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank the speakers and all those who have contributed to the preparation of this report. since mr medina ortega has mentioned contraband, i cannot resist the urge to talk to you about counterfeiting. between 1998 and 2004, the number of counterfeit seizures increased by 1000%. this means that the specific controls and a new approach to the customs function needed to be modernised. i would also like to pay tribute to the professionals, who have shown a great deal of openness, and i would like to tell them that i do not feel at ease with them. this will no doubt answer mrs mcguinness' concerns. as regards implementing measures, i will endeavour to encourage dialogue between them and the community institutions, including the commission, with which cooperation has always been close and fruitful. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the common position and thank you for your attention.
in writing. the competitiveness of european industry must be at the heart of the community agenda as it is the only way to create skilled jobs, ensure europe's economic growth, ensure the survival of the european social system and ensure that the eu can remain a major trading power in the 21st century. in order to ensure this competitiveness, we must therefore move towards fair and reciprocal market access conditions. the european market is one of the most open and competitive in the world, thanks in particular to competition law, which guarantees open and fair competition in the eu. however, on the external side, the eu faces many trade barriers. the markets of europe's main trading partners are not as open and transparent as the community market. it is therefore more than necessary to restore reciprocal conditions of market access at the level of third countries and more particularly emerging countries and to combat unfair trade practices. we must act swiftly and decisively to ensure that our smes in particular have unhindered access to markets, and in particular to public procurement.
mr president, the commission has decided to postpone the draft reform of the trade defence instruments and i welcome, mr commissioner, this wise decision, which will help to preserve the effectiveness of the fight against unfair competition. these instruments are essential to the international trading system, since they ensure fair and sustainable conditions of competition for companies, and in particular for smes, which are the first victims of dumping, and thus guarantee a healthy economy. i would therefore like to quote mr verheugen's words at a textile conference in milan at the end of last week: 'trade defence instruments are useful for the competitiveness of our industries and are in no way instruments of protectionism'. i think that says it all. these instruments do not constitute a disguised protection of the community industry against the free play of international competition, but on the contrary make it possible to improve its competitiveness by restoring, where necessary, the conditions of normal competition. the weakening of the implementation of these instruments would not have made the eu's trade policy more adapted to the changing global economic context. on the contrary, the interests of industry would have been diluted and the measures taken might have indirectly encouraged relocations and the flight of our research and innovation centres. europe must play a protective role in globalisation. to be competitive, we must not let our guard down in relation to our partners and enforce the rules of fair international trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have just demonstrated by your words that your proposal was at the very least controversial. but originally there was no debate. the commission had launched an independent study and a public consultation, both of which produced a broad consensus on the efficiency and balance of the current system. the only improvements that all the actors wanted were more transparency, more speed and better access for smes. however, in disguise of this reality, the commission has embarked on a reform which will go down in the history of its instruments as the result of the general opposition it aroused. both trade unions and companies, as well as the majority of council members, have spoken out against a project that threatens the union's ability to defend itself against unfair trading practices. the commission has withdrawn its proposal, and i welcome that. the approach it favored was dangerous and divisive. it is worth stressing that its role is to guarantee solidarity between member states and to respect the interests involved and not to divide, playing consumers against workers or importers against producers. i should like to remind you, commissioner, that any reform project requires two things: taking account of the recommendations and the results of its own investigations and informing members in advance of the precise direction of the project, particularly in its most controversial aspects.
mr president, commissioner, if you are considering a new reform project similar to the current one, how can you possibly defend at the wto a policy which sanctions dumping when it is practised by foreign companies, but accepts it when it is european companies that benefit from it? the problem is not who produces the goods that arrive in europe, but whether they are exported under fair conditions. we cannot accept that a so-called european company which is dumping should be immune from attack simply because it is european according to your new definition. moreover, since this debate will have to be held at the multilateral level, why not be more forward-looking and include social and environmental dumping in the field of trade defence instruments? europe should be at the forefront of this fight, and it should be its honour.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the following reports: the report by andré brie, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance in the context of the marketing of products (com (2007) 0037 c6-0068/2007 2007/0029 (cod)) (a6-0491/2007); the report by christel schaldemose, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a common framework for the marketing of products (com (2007) 0053 c6-0067/2007 2007/0030 (cod)) (a6-0490/2007), the report by alexander stubblene, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of certain technical rules to the internal market in oral and other consumer protection products (com (2007) 0048/98); the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of certain technical rules to the internal market in oral and consumer protection products (com (2007) 0048 final) (com (2007) 00498); c6 final)
always a lot of humor, mr stubb!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i would first like to highlight the excellent work of our colleague mr alexander stubb, with whom we have also worked closely. i am pleased to note that the definitions of the technical rule and the exclusions have been clarified, as we proposed, and in particular that the difficult problem of language has been solved. in addition, as everyone knows, the primacy of the directive on general product safety has been recognised in a recital, but i will say this in a moment. the brie report also provides assurances that industrial products can be given all the necessary security. as regards the reversal of the burden of proof, which is the very principle of the text on mutual recognition, we have also been able to introduce the responsibility of certain operators, not just the administrations. finally, as regards the time-limit for implementation, the nine months are, in my view, satisfactory. that is the essence of the points of my opinion which have been adopted. as for all three texts, i would say that, thanks to the three rapporteurs and the very thorough discussion we had in all our committees, they were able to reconcile the concern for openness, that is to say the removal of obstacles to the internal market, and the security that has become particularly necessary this summer. the difficult question of precious metals and weapons was dealt with with skillfully in the area of mutual recognition. as regards monitoring and labelling, the idea of being able to revise the general product safety directive within the next five years seems to me to be absolutely essential, as does the fact that national labels should be regulated and that a study on european labelling should be launched. madam president, i think we have here a very good set of texts.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, first of all, of course, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr stubb and mr brie, and especially mrs schaldemose for the efficiency of her work, and i would even add the smiling efficiency to which i am sure you have all been sensitive. i would also like to thank mr mcmillan on behalf of the committee for his complete availability and the slovenian presidency for the political will it has shown to bring this dossier to a close at first reading. the alde group is satisfied with the compromise reached because its concerns have been taken into account. these concern two points in particular: importers' liability and ce marking. we all want a healthy market and therefore healthy economic operators selling safe products. the efta countries therefore support the provisions for greater attention by importers in the marketing of products, if they share in the responsibility and must therefore bear all the consequences. as regards the ce marking, we are satisfied with the division made in the provisions between the regulation and the decision. i can personally regret that we have not yet completely solved the problem of the affixing of national trade marks. it's a recurring question. you will recall that when the machinery directive was adopted in february 2006, we asked the european commission to make a statement in which it said that it would specify, and i quote, 'the conditions for the affixing of other markings in connection with the ce marking, whether at national, european or private level'. the commission has therefore kept its commitment, but we, the members of the european parliament and the member states, have probably not had the political will to take a clear and precise position on the subject. we cannot but regret this, but on the other hand i am pleased that mr verheugen has announced that a thorough study of this subject is needed. the alde group will support the compromise as it stands and we welcome the work done on this text.
madam president, mr harbour, i wish you a happy birthday. we are back in the 1990s. to prepare for the single market, we have legislated here in a series of stages... it is obvious that this is not the end of it, since we still have two regulations and one decision to ensure the free movement of goods. the fact is that the facts are stubborn and the governments like protectionism, if not protectionism. in addition to technical standards and forms, and in the name of security, there are non-tariff barriers. for example, for years the french motor industry had yellow light bulbs instead of white to limit foreign cars. the commission is therefore proposing a common framework for the free marketing of bicycles and ladders from which dads fall, toys which kill children, kettles which boil mothers and electrical appliances which electrocute grandparents. it was believed, 23 years after the single act was signed, that the 1979 cassis de dijon judgment, plus 200 other judgments of the court of justice, ensured mutual recognition for all each other's products. well, no, you won't. the single market is still a multifaceted market and, in order to avoid these technical and regulatory obstacles, which create subtle barriers, the commission proposes a principle: importers are the payers, they are responsible for the safety of imported products and the burden of proof is reversed. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this customs officer's return to a free trade zone is not for nothing. it is true that at the end of his life, adam smith, the pope of free trade, walked the streets of his city in his father's customs officer's costume. so let's put the spotlight back on the caps of the customs officials, imported from china, but let's make sure they're safe. this is not the time for the commissioners to get a sunburn!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european consumers expect better protection for the safety of the products they buy every day. too often we hear on television that certain goods from outside the union are dangerous to the safety or health of citizens. this legislative package is a good answer to these problems. i would like to emphasize the negotiating work of the three rapporteurs on the importance of consumer protection. in the current context of product safety, new instruments are more than necessary. i would like to stress in particular the oral question which will be asked on the revision of the rule on the use of the ce mark. until now, it has been a guarantee of confidence and security for our european citizens, whereas in reality it is simply a declaration by the manufacturer that the product complies with european legislation. as a result, the labelling has too often been trivialised and misused. let's remember the mattel toy business. i would very much like the commission to propose an additional marking to enhance its credibility and the information given to consumers to improve the safety of imported products. but i have no doubt of mrs kuneva's conviction on this matter. it has always been in favour of improving consumer confidence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of products is not compromised by the use of dangerous substances, and that the safety of products is not compromised by the use of dangerous substances. the first priority is to make importers directly responsible for the safety of the products they import. at present, it is very difficult to sanction them, as manufacturers sometimes shut down their factories and disappeared when problems are discovered in europe. this situation is no longer acceptable. finally, i would like to thank mrs schaldemose for taking account of the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises in relation to conformity assessment procedures. the aim is to strike a balance between procedures which can be cumbersome and costly for micro-enterprises, including craft enterprises, without however exempting them from their responsibilities.
in writing. two things shocked me about the deprez report on terrorism. the first is the silence on one of the main causes of the terrorist threat in europe: the uncontrolled migration of populations who do not wish to integrate or assimilate, but on the contrary wish to live according to their own laws in their "host" societies, and even to impose them on them. the second is the feeling of guilt: according to you, europe is never doing enough in renouncing what it is, its national identities and its common civilization. it never does enough in the relativity of its values, in the name of tolerance and the "right to be different". it is never satisfied with discriminating against its own people in favour of those of foreign nationality, culture or civilization living in its territory. she's the one who's responsible for what's happening to her. but the perpetrators of the london bombings were british citizens, born on british soil, with enviable professional status! no exceptions or victims: in war! the fact is that the multicultural and communitarian societies you call wishful thinking are by nature multiconflict societies. and that it is our denials that fuel hatred and contempt.
in writing. this report on the eradication of terrorism is yet another tribute to the glory of human rights and the fight against discrimination. indeed, with the increase in warnings about possible violations of fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression and religion, the means to combat terrorism are becoming obsolete. it will be understood that the european parliament considers the protection of the rights of all and political correctness to be more important than the security of the citizens of the european union. so in this report on the factors that encourage terrorism, there is not a word about mosques, yet, as we know, they are real recruitment centres for future islamic terrorists. nor is there any mention of the imams of france, belgium, the netherlands or denmark, who are the real recruiters of muslim youths in search of jihad. don't shock them. not to provoke religious susceptibilities in others. no discrimination against them. this is certainly not the right magic formula to effectively combat the ever-growing islamic terrorism. quite the opposite.
in writing. this report is the result of considerable amendment work carried out by members of the pse, greens-efa, gue and alde groups in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. from a text that scandalously stigmatises islam and muslims, this progressive centre-left majority has succeeded in making a balanced text, stressing the diversity of factors encouraging terrorism (economic, social, etc.), the need to respect fundamental rights and the importance of combating discrimination and promoting equal opportunities, particularly in the fields of education, training and employment. two or three points in the report, however, seem to me to be questionable, in particular the reference to a 'moderate islam' or 'the surveillance of all places where propaganda is disseminated which incites people to commit terrorist acts'. but if i cannot give my full support to this report, then to reject it would be to give the right wing the benefit of the doubt and to undo months of work. that is why i think that a reasoned and explained abstention is the wisest course.
in writing. the best way to combat terrorism is prevention, not the introduction of widespread surveillance of european citizens. it is therefore important to tackle the root causes of terrorism. the phenomenon of violent radicalisation will therefore no longer have a place if we take into account the inequalities and injustices at national and global level. i abstained on this report because i believe that we cannot single out any particular religion in this process of fighting terrorism. terrorism is not a religious issue, even though some seem to rely on their supposed religion to kill. the fight against violent radicalisation will only be possible through the strengthening of secularism in our societies, and through an open intercultural dialogue with all the actors concerned, and in particular with civil society.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to welcome the swedish prime minister to the house on behalf of the epp-ed group. since the signing of the amending treaty of lisbon, you, mr reinfeldt, are the first head of government to express his vision of the future of europe before this parliament. on the eve of our debate on the treaty and its democratic advances for the union - and i am speaking here on behalf of the epp members of my group - i would like to renew my call for the ratification process to continue at a steady pace. five of the 27 member states have ratified the treaty to date. they said yes to the new tools provided by the lisbon treaty to shape the europe of the future, to give substance to the aspirations of its citizens. the sooner this ratification takes place, the sooner we will have new operating rules, which are essential for effective european action. the sooner we can concentrate our efforts on the content of our common policies, the better. europe must be able to take decisions quickly on energy, climate, food security, immigration and defence. for more than fifty years my political family has encouraged and supported the construction of europe. in june 2009, our commitment to a europe of shared values, a europe of prosperity, a europe of security and solidarity will again be put to the vote of the electorate. we want europe to be ready for this meeting. the europe we want is competitive, job-creating. it promotes economic growth and social development. europe's prosperity must be built on the long term. we must therefore advocate sustainable and rational development, which involves protecting the environment and combating global warming. the ppe/ed group is in favour of free trade, which increases the purchasing power of the poorest and reduces inequalities both within and between countries. if we consider that globalisation can be a chance for europe, we will never accept unbridled free trade. it is our responsibility to protect the interests of the most vulnerable and to defend our european social model. economic growth and a high level of social protection are not incompatible: our growth rate was higher than that of the united states in 2007, as is evident. finally, the europe of prosperity requires the completion of an efficient and open single market and the pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. we want a europe which is accountable, responsible and demanding in the management of public money. but budgetary rigor must not be detrimental to the principle of solidarity between member states and between europe and its partners in the world. solidarity has a cost, and we must pay for it. we also want a europe that is strong and able to fight international terrorism and organised crime without borders. it is a matter of defending our values, our freedoms, our democracy, our rule of law and our solidarity. nothing is negotiable when the security of the european space and its inhabitants is at stake. the defence of the freedom we have so dearly won requires unwavering determination, strong and coordinated action. if we are to be more vigilant in the face of real threats, we must also ensure that the individual freedoms of our citizens are respected. we are for a fair balance between security and individual freedom. on the international scene too, it is urgent for europe to engage and forge ever closer links with its partners who share our vision of the world. we are in favour of a strong and deep transatlantic relationship, but we also want the development of the neighbourhood policy and the continuation of the enlargement policy. as regards cyprus, our group supports the latest efforts to find a just solution that will enable all cypriots to live together in peace. in the middle east, europe must support politically and financially the difficult negotiations between israelis and palestinians to achieve peace. without concessions on both sides, it would be impossible to stop extremism. the existence of the european union shows that it is possible to overcome the hatreds between peoples and to build a common future. our experience must be of use to those who tear themselves apart. and the south-eastern balkans are now the most unstable part of our continent, but the declaration of independence of kosovo opens a period of uncertainty. we call for measured responses from all parties. provocations must be avoided. the safety of the people is imperative. europe is playing big in this case. the time has come to show our ability to stabilize the balkans. we support the launch of an eu police and judicial mission in support of the kosovo authorities. we call for a stable, democratic and multiethnic future for kosovo, and a european future. this community perspective concerns all the balkans, and therefore also serbia. we are not in favour of the isolation of the serbs, but of a european union. mr president, mr prime minister, we are debating the future of europe, we must overcome and meet the challenges, and we need a clear political vision, determination and courage. the epp/ed group, which is convinced of these values and priorities, will help to meet these challenges.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr prime minister, madam minister, if there is one point on which the swedish experience interests us in european policy, i believe it is the one you unfortunately omitted in your speech, namely the social one, and more specifically as regards the lessons to be learned from the laval-vaxholm case. so let me just stop there. i'm just stating the facts. swedish trade unions had tried to force a latvian company to apply swedish labour law in sweden by means of a collective action. nothing more natural, you might say. yes, except for those who support the so-called principle of the country of origin, in other words social dumping. however, the latvian company had invoked european law to justify its opposition to the union demand. a legal battle ensued. the highest body in european law, the european court of justice, was seized. as we know, it is the court which interprets the treaties and sets the case law. on 18 december the court ruled in favour of the company and against the trade unions. i quote the court's press release: 'in the present case, the court finds that the right of trade union organisations ... to take collective action ... is likely to make it less attractive or even more difficult for these undertakings to carry out construction work on swedish territory and therefore constitutes a restriction on the freedom to provide services.' in future, in such cases, trade unions in sweden, as elsewhere, should therefore limit their demands to the 'minimum protection' permitted under community law, in order not to infringe in particular article 49 of the treaty, which guarantees freedom to provide services. that is clearly not acceptable. that is why my group is calling for a debate in the european parliament on this important subject: what political follow-up to this judgment? but for the time being, mr. prime minister, we would be interested in your assessment of this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, french treason is consummated. the congress of shame met in versailles on 4 february to adopt the constitutional revision necessary for the adoption of the so-called "constitutional" treaty. versailles became the high point of the abdication of french sovereignty, after the german empire was proclaimed there. on behalf of the 26 member states that will not be consulted in the referendum, ireland is becoming the de facto spokesperson for the millions of europeans who voted 'no' in 2005 and who do not want a european superstate. when people are denied the right to say what their future will be, they retaliate. do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, they will take their revenge, and what a revenge, at the european elections next year! in truth, a number of european leaders knew that their peoples would reject this disguised constitution. mr sarkozy bluntly admitted this to the conference of presidents of this house, citing in particular the united kingdom government. he has been the guest of honour at this outrageous charade. he was the last person to have the right to have the constitution ii adopted by parliament, but what would we not do to shine and appear as the mastermind of this conjuring operation? the european union is also a major player in the fight against unemployment, and its role in the fight against unemployment is to help the countries of the region to develop their economies and to help them to cope with the challenges of the present crisis. the future of europe does not depend on this totalitarian superstate, as we see today in kosovo, which should serve as an example, but on the freely agreed cooperation of the european nations and peoples, which is also extended to the slavic nations. there is no doubt that two peoples consulted, both of whose governments were founding members of the union, clearly rejected the proposed constitution by referendum. the text is therefore illegitimate, and all its consequences are illegitimate and no one can be obliged to comply with its terms. national resistance becomes a legitimate right for citizens and a duty for patriots. digging up consuls!
mr president, europe's future - and this is obvious - lies in its peoples, for its peoples are its only substance and its only strength. if its peoples were to be absorbed, if they were to be relieved of their own responsibility and divided or fragmented into small principalities without political dimension, in accordance, of course, with the american imperial policy, of which we have just had a terrible and grave example in kosovo, in a word, if europe were to rely on an extraterrestrial technostructure that delivers it to all the winds of globalisation and empire, then, ladies and gentlemen, i would be very afraid for our future. but all the evidence shows that this machine, shamefully called the european union, is not only working without the peoples but is now working against them. further proof of this has just been given by the incredible rejection of the french vote and the 2005 referendum, with the complicity of the pale governor sarkozy. the french feel deceived and turn away from all hope, in a general rescue team that is the very negation of history and the future. europe can only be saved if the peoples take their destiny into their own hands, if the states freely pursue their policies by associating themselves when necessary, if the lies of a democracy which has nothing to do with the demos or even the kratos are exposed, in a word, if the states and nations regain their freedom. otherwise the beautiful idea of europe will be swept away and we will slowly drift far, far away from the shores of history.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the desire for a knowledge-based economy is a good thing, but it is not enough. the growth of direct or indirect employment depends on the sustainability of labour activities. these industries are caught in a rut. their competitiveness is threatened by the increase in the cost of organizing our societies, and they are suffocated by the absurd management of the euro, which generates a competitive and additional income for countries lacking any costly social and environmental policies. the model works backwards. we are socialists inside the union and liberals outside, whereas we need more protection from the rest of the world and more freedom inside. the facts show it. the lisbon strategy is ineffective because of the asymmetry of european economies, the exacerbation of competitive pressure and the hypermobility of capital markets. so let us abandon the demobilizing myth of a european social strategy, guaranteeing prosperity for all. you can't make a plant grow by pulling on the leaves! the solutions will not come from brussels, but from the free cooperation and rationality of the states. it is by being rooted in the soil of our nations that we will find the intelligence, the responsiveness, and therefore the meaning and the strength to meet the challenges of today. in this case, santa's letters are useless.
mr president, i believe that this year our debate has some importance as we review the lisbon cycle. finally, i understand the commission's strategy of saying, in a certain sense, 'everything is fine, madam marquise, let us not change anything because the fundamentals of the european economy are good'. you do it because, compared to the state of the american economy, it's true, our fundamentals are much better. however, i would add that it must be relatively difficult to negotiate a redefinition of the guidelines at twenty-seven. but there is more to it than that. the situation of the us economy will have an impact on the situation of the economies of all the countries of the european union and, perhaps, the euro area in particular. in the same way, since last march the heads of state and government adopted new legitimate, strategic objectives in terms of the environment and energy, we must take these into account. finally, each measures the impact on financial markets and the impact on the real economy of the turbulent situation, at least, which exists in financial markets. so we ask that these three elements be included in a re-writing of the guidelines. mr turk, when we saw you in ljubljana last november, you said to us: 'but tell us what the european parliament wants.' well, we tell you, we want the coordination of economic policies, we want the issue of climate change, we want the issue of financial market supervision to be better addressed in these guidelines. if further efforts can be made in this direction, we will welcome them as progress in improving the capacity for economic policy coordination and thus the use of the guidelines. but, commissioner, do not think we will stop there! we will also ask you to ensure that these guidelines are consistent with all the other tools available to the commission so that this strategy, which we are defining together, can be implemented through the tools available to the european union in this field.
mr president, we know, and we must admit and acknowledge, that the lisbon strategy has not made the progress we hoped for. that is why we are obliged to speak today of the renewed lisbon strategy. the euro area growth slowed sharply in the last quarter of 2007, and this lack of growth is at the root of europe's problems. so, to succeed in the next cycle of the strategy, we need to go beyond a simple diagnosis of europe's problems, to start a therapy with a clear governance process. the next cycle of the strategy must not be another bureaucratic exercise. it is important, as was done last week, that the european parliament and the national parliaments are more closely involved in this strategy. while member states have agreed together what they should do individually to reform their economies, they must also commit to accountability for the implementation of their reforms. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. the union must therefore avoid shooting itself in the foot, at a time when it is facing many challenges, i.e. a population that will begin to decline as from 2020, economic pressures, an increase in the price of energy, climate change, social imbalances. we therefore need to take some major measures which will create real momentum, encourage the development and growth of millions of smes and create new jobs. on the environmental side, measures to rapidly improve the energy efficiency of our buildings must mobilise considerable budgets and thus foster innovation and thus new jobs. let us always remember churchill's quote, which must be the maxim of the next round of strategy: "strategy is beautiful, but don't forget to look at the results". it is by proving its effectiveness that the european union will be able to get closer to the european citizens, and that is the whole point of a europe that protects its people and its interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution on the lisbon strategy and its revival is in line with the report which parliament adopted last october, on my proposal, on the future strategy for the internal market. i would first like to thank marianne thyssen and klaus-heiner lehne, and all their colleagues in the group, for drawing up a resolution which is both very balanced and in line with the political, economic and social reality of our union. i would like to stress in particular the proposals made on the importance of social rights, the reconciliation between economic competitiveness and the social model, and i would like to say in this connection that we must of course go further and adopt the provisions on services of general interest. i also stress what has been said about intellectual property. it is a major weapon for the european union and for small and mediumsized enterprises. the international dimension introduced in this resolution is new, and it is of course necessary. the internal market is what gives the 500 million european citizens their place and strength in globalisation. finally, i would just like to ask a question about the method. i am not sure that the open method of coordination, the method currently used, is the most effective. i think that we must move on to genuine common policies on a number of the subjects of the lisbon strategy if we are to succeed tomorrow.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate our colleagues, íñigo méndez de vigo and richard corbett, as i do everyone else, for the report on the lisbon treaty and, above all, for the excellent work they have done. but as a friend, i also tell them that they're getting paid for it. our debate comes at a time when five member states have already ratified the treaty and poland is announcing that it is about to start the ratification process. on behalf of the members of the european people's party and the epp-ed group, i would like to stress once again how important this treaty is for the revival of the european dynamism. after two years of deadlock and institutional uncertainty, the european union has acquired the tools it needs to function effectively. the epp members believe that the treaty gives the union more democracy, more visibility and therefore more influence within the union and in the world. the treaty of lisbon marks the return of politics to europe. the increase in democracy, clarity, visibility and the enhancement of the efficiency of the european union were highlighted by our rapporteurs as the major advances of the lisbon treaty. democracy is strengthened by the extension of the powers of the european parliament, the only institution elected by direct universal suffrage. co-decision becomes the rule. the president of the commission shall be elected by the european parliament. the role of national parliaments will be increased in matters of subsidiarity. this is something that our group is very keen on. europe's place in national debates will no longer be lacking. they won't have any excuse to criticize us. citizens will now have a right of initiative. they will be able, by gathering one million signatures from citizens of the 27 member states, to invite the commission directly to submit a new proposal. in addition, citizens' rights will be protected by the charter of fundamental rights, the legally binding force of which is enshrined in the treaty. we are very proud of this breakthrough. with the opening up of legislative debates in the council, europe will be more transparent, and with the clarification of the european union's competences, its functioning will become more understandable. the increase in qualified majority voting in the council will reduce the risk of institutional deadlock and make it possible to implement the necessary common policies. in addition, europe will become a major political player on the international scene. where it has competence, the union will make its voice heard and take the necessary decisions on energy policy, foreign policy, judicial and police cooperation and environmental policy. in the energy field, the treaty introduces a legal basis for a european policy on energy supply and renewable energies. in foreign policy, the union will finally be represented by a high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. in the face of a changing world, with its many and varied challenges, the european union must have the means to assert itself as a key player in the eyes of its partners in the world. i have seen this again recently in the middle east, where more is being demanded of europe, not just the europe that pays, but the europe that weighs with all its political weight, and this will be no less true in kosovo and the balkans. in the area of police and judicial cooperation, it is essential that the union takes strong, coordinated action to combat the globalisation of crime and terrorist threats. the lisbon treaty gives the union the means to undertake far-reaching reforms in this direction. because it will be more readable, more united, the european union will assert itself as a world leader in the fight against global warming. it will also send clear messages to emerging countries to encourage them to adopt a genuine sustainable development strategy. the members of the european people's party are convinced that these areas must be the subject of european policies. but, of course, many of us - the rapporteurs stress this - regret that the constitutional approach has had to abandon the mention of european symbols. the main issue now is ratification of the treaty. on behalf of the epp members, i call on the member states to follow the example of hungary, slovenia, romania, malta and france and to ratify the lisbon treaty without delay so that it can enter into force as early as 2009. i thank you for your attention, and i hope that the president of the socialist group, martin schulz, will follow my example today. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the same is true of the treatment of women as of childbirth: some are delivered by epidural and others by caesarean section. this one belongs to the second category and you'll see that he'll grow up like a beautiful baby. we had to do it twice, but that's in the past. it's imperfect, it's incomplete, it's better than not having any at all. above all, it marks the end of the process of reuniting the continent, which began on 9 november 1989. and in his own way, he ended world war ii. of course, he is accused of strengthening a liberal europe. i admit she could have been a totalitarian, sorry about that! i hope that this treaty will not be the end of one era but the beginning of another. i am already anxious to know who will preside over europe, because the choice of that person will be watched by the whole world and the function creates the body. i feel like telling him, "don't stay in your office. travel europe, not just the capitals, but all the regions of europe". i want to say to him, "go around the world. go to places where freedoms are violated, where human rights are curtailed, where wars and conflicts still exist. it shows that europe has a name, a face, an address, a telephone". because i believe that person, man or woman, will be decisive. we'll see what happens with this function. the appointment will already be made in june 2014 five years later. either this treaty will be lived out, it will have proved effective, the citizens will have taken it up, or the taste for europe itself will be achieved. that is why the coming mandate will probably be a decisive mandate in european citizens' engagement.
mr president, i note the fairness with which you are presiding over these debates. ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to raise a moral issue by referring exclusively to statements by people who are in favour of ratifying the treaty and who have told us that it is exactly the same as the constitution. this is the case of mr giscard d'estaing, who said very precisely that it was the constitution, but stored in different drawers. this is the case of mrs merkel, who said very precisely - she spoke in english - 'let us keep the substance, and change the wording'. mr d'amato, the former president of the italian council, said: 'we have made a complicated text, because if it had been a simple text, everyone would have seen that it was a constitution, and everyone would have called for a referendum.' this is the case with our former colleague, mr karel de gucht. this is the case for luxembourg prime minister juncker. i think that this deception which is being claimed against the peoples of europe poses a moral problem.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately, this is the first item on the voting time, which starts now. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, we have just, by a very large majority, amended the guidelines in the field of economic policy. mr almunia is not here, but i ask mrs wallström to give her very strong support to the new proposals that the european parliament is making to improve the economic situation of all our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i remain convinced that in the french parliament, since president sarkozy did not organise a referendum, abstention was the position that the socialists had to defend. but just because the president of the french republic has badly negotiated this treaty and has done nothing about the vote of the french people does not mean that we should not answer the question put to us today. this treaty is far from perfect, but it closes the institutional debate and provides europe with the rules for its functioning. today, the socialists must be heard on the reorientation of policies, the main issue in the revision of the financial perspectives, on the french presidency of the european union, on the involvement of the pse in the writing of its manifesto for the next european deadlines. the 'no' has allowed policies to be taken out of the text of what was to be a constitution, and it has forced europe to put the question of the nature of the european project at the heart of its thinking. this is essential. but because i want this text to pass so that i can fully engage in the next policy negotiations, because the 'no' i said more than two years ago was pro-european, i take my responsibility and approve the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the european parliament has just approved the lisbon treaty, even though no one asked it to do so. the delegation of the movement for france in the european parliament voted against this report, of course, but it was also aware of the symbolic significance of the report. it is significant that french and dutch members of parliament, sitting in strasbourg, voted in favour of a treaty, clearly admitting that it is a clone of the defunct european constitution, whereas their peoples solemnly rejected this text. it is also significant that the european parliament votes on a treaty when none of its members has been able to consult a consolidated version of it. after the hungarian parliament ratifies blindly, the european parliament approves a text it has not read. the mpf delegation to the european parliament wishes all freedom-loving irish people good luck today: their referendum will not be theirs alone, they will vote for all those who were not lucky enough to be able to do so and for those, especially the french, whose vote was rejected by a show of hands.
in writing. it is a rare stalinist report in this chamber: it is pure propaganda! it is only here and in sarkozy that it can be said that the treaty of lisbon is fundamentally different from the european constitution, when the vast majority of the heads of state and government of the european union and the father of the constitution itself, valéry giscard d'estaing, say exactly the opposite. the speakers, inspired by the explanatory statement, were very clever, quoting some lines from shakespeare's julius caesar. this quote essentially explains that one must follow the underlying forces that lead to great social changes, or else ruin and failure. the problem is that for them these forces are the treaty of lisbon and the artificial and forced creation of a centralised european superstate. whereas the real forces in this matter are the growing rejection of this very project by the peoples. they are longing for their roots and their identity, and for protection from the developments they reject but are being forced upon them: the political constructions that rob them of their freedoms and the financial globalization that is ruining them.
in writing. we voted against this report which dictates to the states the content of their economic and social policies for the next three years. this is an opportunity to remind the house that, beyond the single currency and the dictates it imposes on the states, everything, absolutely everything, is now decided in brussels. it is not simply a matter of setting objectives for the states (reducing public debt or deficits, combating unemployment, restoring growth, etc.) but of explaining in detail how to do this, by what means and with what instruments. the problem is that these guidelines have been the same for 15 years: flexibility of labour, immigration to replace populations and provide cheap labour, deregulation of public services, wage moderation, malthusian budgetary policies, liberalisation of foreign trade, competition... the panoply is well known and so are its results: unemployment, decline in purchasing power and increase in poverty, deindustrialization, social disintegration... it is time to ask ourselves: is it because governments do not follow orders enough that things go wrong, or is it because they follow orders too much and the orders are not the right ones? we feel that the second explanation is the correct one.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr özdemir on his own-initiative report on the european strategy in central asia. i think it has made perfectly clear the objectives and priorities of the european union's relations with each of the five central asian countries. he stressed the need for a more coherent regional approach to this strategic area, while highlighting the differences in each country. i agree with the opinion of the committee on development, in particular on the need to eradicate poverty, improve public health and primary education and eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and minorities. it is also important that this report stresses the need for progress in terms of democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the region and this is, in my view, essential. the report considers that cooperation on energy issues is of paramount importance in the european strategy. nevertheless, the european institutions will have to be vigilant and ensure that human rights in the region, as well as the environment, are not sacrificed to energy needs and trade agreements.
in writing. i welcome the adoption today by a large majority of the report on a european strategy for central asia. it is essential that the european union takes a close interest in these five countries: uzbekistan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan and kazakhstan. the report rightly calls for differentiation of european policy for each country and i can only approve of the fact that criteria such as the human rights situation in the countries concerned and their compliance with osce commitments are highlighted. the text also seeks to highlight the present and future importance of these countries for the eu, particularly in trade and energy matters. the geopolitical situation in central asia is such that cooperation with these countries needs to be strengthened, both bilaterally and at eu level. the report calls for reforms in the social sector, health, food security, the fight against corruption, in order to ensure the long-term stability, security and prosperity of the region. the text is therefore complete, defining the areas of action in which the eu can provide assistance, in order to give it the fullest possible visibility and credibility in the region.
in writing. with the exception of the kyrgyz republic, developments in central asia are alarming in more than one way. firstly, in terms of human rights and democracy, the mistreatment of many women (forced marriages, sexual exploitation, rape, etc.) and child labour in the region are completely unacceptable. the increase in infectious diseases (including hiv) is also a cause for concern. finally, central asia will not be able to benefit from effective integration into the world economic system until all five central asian countries have acceded to the wto (the kyrgyz republic has been a member since 1998). the eu strategy for central asia can make an effective contribution to the economic and human development of this region of the world. the european union must not abandon central asia, a strategic crossroads between the european and asian continents and a traditional partner in trade relations and energy cooperation. i strongly support this text in its desire to see the eu's priorities in central asia clarified, european projects initiated in the region strengthened and their implementation accelerated. that is why i voted for the report.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we cannot help feeling very uneasy about the responsibilities assumed by the european union and its member states in the kosovo affair. first, the union's ambition in principle is to contribute to better global governance. but under its impulse, many of its member states have weakened or are dangerously weaken ing the future credibility of international law by endorsing the unilateral declaration of independence of a province of a sovereign state, a member of the un. the main powers of the union thus place, whatever may be said about sui generis - because it is not decreed - the balance of power above the law, and in so doing they open pandora's box. this is serious. secondly, this unilateral recognition is likely to run counter to the objectives set by the union in the balkans. it will feed nationalism instead of draining it from its source. the union has also become profoundly alienated from the serbian people, without whom there is no possible regional policy in this part of europe. i am not talking about the people who are nostalgic for milošević, but about those who opposed him and who are now in the majority. as for the kosovar albanians themselves, will the union be able to satisfy their aspirations after having fed them? the question is worth asking, and that is the third reason for the unease felt after the famous day of joy in kosovo. the new challenge which the european union has just set itself is a very daunting one. we are now on the front line of a new protectorate, even though no satisfactory analysis has been produced of the reasons for the failure of the protectorate which is coming to an end: a gross domestic product in kosovo equivalent to that of rwanda, half the working population unemployed, more than 200 000 refugees and displaced persons, an increase in violence against minorities, and this despite international aid of two billion euros and the presence of 17 000 nato soldiers. eurolex is not going to solve all these problems! what comprehensive and lasting prospects can the european union offer to the kosovars and the other peoples of the balkans - a prospect which is likely to stabilise the situation here, without risking destabilising it elsewhere? the membership? how long? how likely is it that the 27 member states will agree unanimously? no one knows. no, my group cannot be associated with the short-sighted complacency of the main european leaders. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, on the eve of the seventh session of the human rights council, parliament wishes to send you a message of support, vigilance and mobilisation. it is the only international body that effectively combats human rights violations, and in particular responds to emergencies, to human rights crises, but also works in the long term with the special rapporteurs and in an interactive dialogue with ngos. the council is unique and is at a critical juncture in its history. one year won't be enough to establish its effectiveness. but that may be enough to discredit him, and we know that there are many attempts to weaken him and to use him as a tool. i would first like to speak about the situation of mrs sigma huda, the special rapporteur on human trafficking. she is imprisoned in terrible conditions in bangladesh. then, as regards these same special rapporteurs, the proposals of the advisory committee will be decided by the chairman as a last resort. that is why i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the council. that is why the union must remain vigilant and must remain proactive. his action is decisive. we saw him in gaza. the abstention of the union considerably weakens the message, it weakens the council itself. however, when the union takes the initiative of a special session and then puts its full weight on the scale, the council grows, it achieves results. and to do that, our member states must strengthen their transregional alliances to convince and avoid any block reaction that would send the council back into the throes of political contingencies. we therefore call on our governments to step up their efforts and to set an example. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the upr. the permanent invitation to special procedures should be a primary criterion for the states of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are continuing tonight has been open in this chamber for some years. it will not be closed with the adoption of this report, which leaves some questions open, to which we will probably have to return in the near future. i would like to thank the commission for the quality of its communication, which has enriched the debate and which we have taken advantage of in the committee on employment. i shall be dealing with the consequences of demographic changes in my report, i.e. the decline in the working population, the increasing number of elderly people and the demographic imbalances in the regions of europe. does that mean that it is impossible to act on the causes? i would like to remind you that the 20th century has seen two major developments. first, women have access to education and training on an equal basis with men. then women gained control of their fertility by contraception. these are two factors in women's emancipation. this is a great advance for mankind and, i hope, irreversible. however, in order to have all the elements of analysis in hand, two things must be added at the same time. all the studies show that european citizens want more children than they actually have, and secondly, in the member states where the employment rate of women is high, the birth rate is also high. so having an active working life does not prevent having children, provided that it allows a good balance between work and family life for all men and women. much progress remains to be made in this area, and this in all member states. another point has emerged in the course of our discussions, which no one disputes. economic insecurity, fear of the future are important factors in the decline in birth rates. when it's hard to plan for the future, you hesitate to have children. this is a crucial point and i believe that the fall in birth rates in the european union is a serious warning in this respect. the citizens of europe need to regain confidence in the future by regaining job security and decent living conditions. that's the cause, what about the effect? the main consequence is the decline in the working population, which is expected to fall from 331 million in 2010 to around 268 million in 2050. how can europe maintain its growth and competitiveness with a reduced working population? in this area, the title of the communication, commissioner, is quite meaningful and powerful: turning a challenge into an opportunity. europe today suffers from still very high unemployment rates and there is still considerable scope for progress in the employment of women, young people and the elderly, for whom the employment rate falls dramatically from 52 to 55 years of age. the real opportunity of this demographic challenge is the goal of full employment, which is at last realistic, at last achievable, and at last necessary. we must therefore implement a real human resource management policy and a real lifelong learning policy. i say lifelong, and that also means for employees over 50, who are discriminated against in vocational training and promotion. in my report i propose the concept of the working life cycle to emphasize the need to consider the period of working life, which is about 40 years, but it is up to the member states to define it as a continuous chain of employment, training, retraining and possible promotion from the beginning to the end of working life. and before we consider lowering the retirement age, we must ensure that all those who have not yet reached that age have the opportunity to work, to use their skills and professional experience. it is because there is a legal retirement age that it can be considered to go beyond it, according to modalities which each member state defines in accordance with its traditions of dialogue and consultation. the debate on this point remains open. the last point i would like to make quickly is, of course, the use of immigration. there's a lot of talk about compensating for the decline in the working population, and you know that immigration also causes a lot of tension. that is why i am advocating a calm and reasoned approach to this issue. immigration into the european union is not a new phenomenon and, with a positive balance of two million immigrants per year - a figure that has remained stable for several years - legal immigration contributes to the composition of the european union's labour force, as it also contributes to the composition of european societies. we must maintain this flow of immigrants and guarantee legal status in our member states to those we receive, in particular by fighting against the illegal channels and the exploitation of illegal labour. the human dimension of immigration must be the guiding principle of our immigration policies and family integration must not be left out of our guidelines. in the interim conclusion of this presentation, i would like to remind you that behind the birth rates, the age pyramids, the ratios, there are the questions of birth, motherhood, the place of women in our societies, the care we give to our elders and how we ourselves hope to end our lives. that is why this debate is as exciting as it is passionate, and i thank all the shadow rapporteurs for being as passionate as i am.
mr president, commissioner, as my previous colleague has just said, we are facing a great challenge. now all of our fellow citizens have understood that there is a climate challenge. few realized there was a democratic challenge. but, having said that, where is the demographic problem in europe? in the cities, of course, since 80% of the population is concentrated in the cities. what is the problem today for citizens living in cities and for mayors, since other members of parliament, like myself, are also mayors or deputy mayors of their cities? i'll take two sets of examples. a series of economic examples, on the one hand. in the second case, there are empty houses, unused roads, heated neighbourhoods without any facilities, empty schools or, on the contrary, in the first case, as i have just done in some parts of my town, a school to be built for 5 million euros and a new neighbourhood centre for 7 million euros. so these are economic costs that fall on the shoulders of cities and city taxpayers. but the challenge is not only economic, it is also human because in these neighbourhoods, when you see people suffering from isolation, when the whole neighbourhood is aging, when there are no children playing in the street and no children shouting for joy, there is a problem of human relations. there are jobs, as you know, that are completely neglected. we can't find a plumber in some small towns. we don't have enough nurses in my town. we don't have enough home help, so we have to wait. instead of having two hours of help a day, we now have only one hour. it's a serious human problem. mr commissioner, in addition to the report by my colleague, mrs castex, which i shall be happy to vote on tomorrow, i ask you as chairman of the urban intergroup to make a proposal to us at city level so that a table can be quickly set up in each city to enable us to understand better and to control better, in the medium and long term, the demographic situation of our cities, so that decisions can be taken on housing, transport, schools, etc.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will speak very quickly, because a lot has been said. i would like to thank the commissioner for pointing out that the demographic issue is not just a women's issue, but that it affects women, men and couples. i would like to point out to those who have complained that men are being forgotten that i have devoted a paragraph in my report to the question of promoting the right of paternity and developing the involvement of fathers in family life. in addition, in an attempt to sum up a little of what has been said, but which is the essence of the report, i would like to stress the strong demand for effective public policies. these are policies, in the plural, in terms of support, care, education, which may seem a bit paradoxical for an issue that actually touches on the intimacy of couples and families. but i think that there is a call from the public authorities at european level, at the level of the member states, which must be heard and taken into account. i would also like to stress this issue of strong demand for solidarity. solidarity between generations, which we have discussed several times in this chamber, is not the only problem. solidarity between territories is also a problem. the way in which mrs schroedter and mr beaupuy have stressed and recalled this evening that it is very important to take account of the territorial imbalances that the demographic question will induce between the regions which are ageing and which are in need of care, and therefore of expenditure, of care, and the younger regions, which will be wealth creators, because that is where the productive population is. this is something that the european commission will have to take into account in the way it manages the european structural and cohesion funds. finally, the question of the labour market, as mr andersson has pointed out, is an important question in the demographic question. it is not peripheral, because we will have to do better with a shrinking, withdrawn labour force. from this point of view, the calls for better management of human resources and investment in lifelong learning are extremely important calls which must be addressed not only to the public authorities, in these cases, but also to all the social partners, and in particular to the companies, because they have a great responsibility in this area. the debate is not therefore closed.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating two reports of our own initiative this morning, but i think they are very important for several reasons. first of all, we are relying on the commission's fourth report on cohesion. it is a truly remarkable document, much better than the previous ones and a very solid basis for any reflection on the future of cohesion in europe. secondly, because the new treaty of lisbon enshrines territorial cohesion as a major objective of the union. finally, we know this because new and formidable challenges are added to those we already know and cohesion policy must make a strong and useful contribution to addressing them in order to move towards the europe we want, that is to say, a europe that is effective and supportive. what does the fourth report tell us? that economic and social convergence between member states is on track, with some reduction in income and employment disparities over the past decade, but also that disparities between, and sometimes within, regions remain strong and often tend to worsen. the development is real but it is far too much imbalanced. this is where the new concept of territorial cohesion comes into its own and where it must, alongside economic and social cohesion, play a central role in pursuing regional development at union level. it will involve an integrated approach between sectoral policies and the actual practice of multi-level governance for its implementation. in this respect, we look forward - and i must say eagerly - to the commission's green paper for next september. the need for a common language on this subject is obvious and this has been well highlighted in our discussions in the regional committee. the lessons of the fourth report lead us to look beyond 2013, since operational programmes for 2007-13 are now in place almost everywhere. they are characterised, in particular, for the first time, by a system of 'split' appropriations, designed to channel the bulk of resources towards the objectives of the lisbon agenda. while emphasising the close relationship in terms of priorities between the lisbon strategy and cohesion policy, we believe that cohesion policy must go beyond this framework and be placed in a broader perspective. our report strongly affirms that convergence at different levels is a prerequisite for the long-term competitiveness of the regions and that in the future the complementarity of the two policies is necessary in order to reconcile performance and solidarity. a periodic evaluation over the period 2007-2013, which we are requesting, should make it possible to confirm the merits of the approach or to make any changes that may be necessary in full knowledge of the facts. the dissociation between rural development and regional policy in the current programming period will also have to be examined. its relevance does not seem to be proven on the ground and the maintenance of this separation after 2013 seems problematic to us. finally, our report puts particular emphasis on the new challenges facing the union and their strong territorial impact - of course, there is the ageing population, climate change, energy, urban concentration, etc. we believe that the urgent need for convergence and the appropriate territorial response to these challenges call for a reinforced cohesion policy in both political and financial terms for the period after 2013. in this context, parliament will - as it has always done - firmly oppose any attempt to renationalize this policy. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking the fictitious rapporteurs, who have been very helpful in this work, given the large number of compromises we have reached. i would also like to stress the consistency with mrs kallenbach's report. i think it was good that there was a very coherent package presented to parliament today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - madam president, commissioner, i would also like to thank our fellow rapporteurs, in particular ambroise guellec, for their presentation and work, and, as the permanent rapporteur for the structural funds within the cobu, to focus very briefly on budgetary issues. this policy is today one of the most significant budgetary policies of solidarity among the european people. today, more than ever, and as we have just heard this morning, the question of maximising the effectiveness of cohesion policies is the main issue. the cobu wanted to draw attention to a number of indicators of concern, such as delays in implementation and outstanding amounts. i would like to highlight a few points which seem to me to be important in this matter. the union must urgently focus on simplifying procedures, such as the implementation of technical assistance, to enable the many projects our territories need to be developed and put into effect. it is also imperative to have a clear division of responsibilities between the union and the member states for better shared management, and i welcome the commissioner's comments on the decision taken last tuesday to adopt an action plan on the audit strategy in the field of the structural funds. finally, i have been stressing this for a long time, and i am also glad that the commissioner has just mentioned it, that it is imperative to have performance indicators that are common to all the member states, that are common both quantitatively and qualitatively, to assess budgetary needs and to help define the next legislative framework for the post-2013 multiannual period, and that will simply make europe's presence in european policies and among europeans more readable.
madam president, the european commission is so concerned about cohesion between and within the member states of the union that it is spending 350 billion euros on this by 2013. a green paper has even been announced, because in brussels, whenever there is a problem, a book is written. and there is indeed a problem of cohesion between western and eastern europe, rural and urban europe, or the europe of the glamorous neighbourhoods and the europe of the workers. but whose fault is it? who has made the villages where grapes, livestock, tobacco, cotton and olive oil were produced in greece, desertified? who and what policies have abolished thousands of post offices in sweden, germany and france? who closed the rural railway stations, abandoned the railway tracks, the maternity wards? and in the ports, is it the wind that destroys fishing boats, fishermen, businesses, shipbuilders? are it the wolves in the pyrenees or the alps that eat the shepherds, or the sheep imported from new zealand? the answer is well known: it is the international trade policy pursued by the commission, gatt and the wto, which has been causing 90 farms a day to disappear in spain and france for the last 20 years. it was the dogmatic removal of customs protections that destroyed industrial balances, under the tide of imports. so, to establish cohesion, we must first establish coherence between policies. we cannot have a policy for the acp in cotonou and destroy it in geneva over bananas. we cannot have community preference for rural areas from 1962 to 1986 and then destroy all that with free trade in the uruguay round or doha. cohesion therefore requires consistency of choices. commissioner, either we make europe or we make the world. we can either do social or we can do global.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say to you, commissioner, that when i listened to your answers to the two reports by our colleagues, mr guellec and mrs kallenbach, i had the impression that i would not need to intervene any further, since it was obvious that you were giving us proof that you had heard us correctly. this is already a first step and i must welcome and congratulate you that this close cooperation between you, your staff, our committee and our parliament has made it possible to achieve the present degree of cohesion between our views. but now, beyond the cohesion of our views, we must move on to implementation, because it is good to achieve cohesion among us, but it must also lead to something concrete. i think that this is possible through the green paper you are preparing for next autumn, and i would like to stress two points that are very close to my heart and which, in my view, are essential for the implementation of this whole cohesion policy, this leipzig charter, which we hold so dear. these two points are as follows: first, the need - you mentioned it, and i want to emphasize this strongly - to show how the different policies of the european union, at the level of urban and peri-urban territory, must be brought into coherence. last night we were discussing demography. yesterday afternoon we were discussing transport. we used to discuss social security. in all these areas, the various dgs of the commission are involved, the various committees of parliament are involved... all this must be brought into coherence in the micro-territory of the city and its surroundings. i am waiting for a position on the green paper. second point. how can we, parliament and the commission, agree on all this and succeed if we do not have the support of the citizens and the governments? i have already told you, madam commissioner, that we must make a very great effort - and i know that you are committed to this - in the field of communication, so that all our speeches, all our proposals, all our wishes in the field of cohesion are expressed in words, in formulae which encourage governments to act and which succeed in convincing and motivating our fellow citizens. these are the two key points i am looking forward to in the green paper, commissioner. after listening to us, i hope you can help us find practical applications.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the hands make the city, the men make the city. jean-jacques rousseau was probably a proponent of the integrated approach. this method is perfectly in line with the approach of making the city and not the fragmented cities, contained in the leipzig charter and the territorial agenda. i would therefore like to congratulate all the main players, and in particular mrs kallenbach, on the excellent cooperation on this matter. i welcome the scope of its proposals for the economic, social and environmental aspects of spatial development and territorial cohesion, and i welcome the attention paid to the proposals for improvement of the report put forward by my group, the pes. more attention to the territorial and urban dimensions of european policies, in particular through integrated development plans and better cooperation between urban and peripheral regions, will help to reap the full benefits of this integrated approach. but this cooperation must not be limited to that. the relationship between rural, urban and peri-urban areas must also be fostered. in this connection, i would stress the importance of boosting the attractiveness and competitiveness of rural areas in order to combat rural exodus. if i were to highlight the main advances in this report, i would first of all mention the urgent need to create integrated multimodal transport networks supported by europe to improve infrastructure, and in particular soft modes of transport such as cycling and walking. identifying the signs of decline in certain neighbourhoods and intensifying efforts to implement a social integration policy are the two pillars of public policy to effectively reduce inequalities and prevent social exclusion. putting people at the heart of building policy by reconciling the urban with the human, especially in this context of the housing crisis in a society where not everyone has a roof over their head paying more attention to decent and affordable housing remains an imperative, a crucial factor of social integration and quality of urban life, in a context of sustainable urban development. that is why i call on all my colleagues to vote massively for this report, which shows the european parliament's willingness to commit itself to strong territorial cohesion, to a comprehensive integrated approach, to finally make the city.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will be brief. first of all, as regards the comments on the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries, i should like to say right away that as a coastal member of parliament i am very fond of fishing, but unfortunately we have not been able to incorporate the committee's amendments into the text which will be put to the vote shortly. we regret this, but i think that this does not detract from the attention that must be paid to this sector which is very important for certain regions of the union. i would also like to say that cohesion is a major european policy. i think she was very much present in this house this morning too. this is particularly important for future work. the commissioner said earlier that we are making a statement, but what we are obviously interested in is the future. it has been able to see that there is a great deal of expectation on territorial cohesion, which it represents from the moment it is in the lisbon treaty. we can say that the ball is now in the commission's court, with our help and support, madam commissioner, of course. this job needs to be done and done well, together. i would add that the fact that this whole area of regional policy will now be co-decision by council and parliament will, i think, help us to move forward together, firstly in terms of visibility for our fellow citizens - and i think that was also very much underlined this morning - and also in terms of genuine solidarity for the territories that need it most, two concerns that were raised very strongly this morning. so we have a lot of work ahead of us. we welcome this policy, which is essential for the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like amendment no 21 to be moved and placed after paragraph 40.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i was speaking in favour of an oral linguistic amendment to amendment no 62, to remind you that the french term is the reference and that, on the other hand, the english version retains the term income. moreover, for all amendments, the french text will be the reference.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have an oral amendment. i would like to delete the word 'fragmentation' in the first sentence and then in the second sentence replace the word 'ensure' with the words 'enhance'. i would also like to point out in the english version, for mr bushill-mattews, that precariousness is not secure.
in writing. europeans are becoming an endangered species. with an average fertility rate of less than 1.5, the eu-27 will have lost some 20 million inhabitants by 2050, and those over 65 will make up 30% of its population. the measures proposed by mrs castex to improve the birth rate in europe are ridiculous because, like all the europeans in power, our colleague does not want the demographic renewal of the european peoples, but their replacement by immigration from africa and asia. that is why it devotes fifteen articles of its report to calling for facilities for family reunification, civil rights for immigrants, an increased effort to integrate them... this policy, recommended in france by mr attali and led by mr sarkozy, will bring 80 million more immigrants to europe by 2050 and, in the long run, the disappearance of our peoples. to ensure the survival of the peoples of europe, we must, on the contrary, reverse the migratory flows and implement a great natalist policy based on the family and the welcome of life. to achieve this, our nations must, in a new europe, that of the homelands, regain their sovereignty and their identity.
in writing. the castex report on the demographic future of europe is a sadly banal statement, repeating all the punchlines found in studies on the subject. mrs castex forgets, among other things, to mention the methods of birth control which have largely contributed to reducing the birth rate in europe, which is now only 1.5 children per woman, far from the replacement of generations. the favourable demographic environment means that women who wish to do so can raise their children for a shorter or longer period. this investment is a priority for society and would significantly reduce school failure and juvenile delinquency. as for the use of immigration to compensate for empty cribs, it is a dangerous idea which, in addition to destabilizing our western societies, risks being a time bomb with all the consequences one can imagine. to justify immigration by a lack of skilled or unskilled labour when there are more than 20 million unemployed in europe is to penalise european workers, who will certainly welcome the proposals of the commission or the european parliament. for these reasons we shall vote against the castex report.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on east timor.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has condemned the attacks against president ramos-horta and prime minister xanana gusmao in the strongest terms. the young democracy of east timor is still extremely vulnerable in its political, judicial and security institutions. the country is confronted with poverty and high unemployment, especially among the young people who have so far little expectations for a prosperous future and are amenable to violent groups. in its meetings with the leaders of the country, the commission has supported a peaceful settlement of the conflict, including the eventual disbanding and disarmament of any paramilitary group. following the 2006 violence, the european commission has reacted quickly: firstly, with humanitarian assistance to the internally displaced persons; secondly, by supporting dialogue among the leaders; and thirdly, in implementing a cash-for-work programme for unemployed youth. the european commission also decided to open a fully-fledged delegation in dili, and the new head of delegation is expected to start work in march 2008. the delegation will become fully operational towards the second half of 2008. this will create the opportunity for a formal political dialogue with the government and a faster assessment of support to the country. the strategy of the european commission for east timor under the 10th european development fund has recently been approved. it aims to support the still weak judicial sector, the parliament and other institutions, thereby assisting in building up a democratic culture. support to rural development will help to alleviate poverty and to improve infrastructure. health-related activities will contribute to tackling poverty-related diseases and reducing alarmingly high mother and child mortality rates. addressing the root causes of the present conflict and providing support for their solution will be as important as the longer term programmes. the east timorese government has submitted a comprehensive governance action plan, which will be the subject of political dialogue between the delegation and the government, supported by the commission. in a mission during the next weeks, the commission will assess the situation and the possibility of assisting with further measures addressing some of the root causes of the conflict. this may include requests of the government to support some labour-intensive programmes to combat unemployment. in a joint commission-council paper of december 2007, both the commission and the eu member states supported the central role of the united nations in coordinating the assistance to the security sector. in summary, the envisaged support under the commission programme, more than eur 80 million, is comprehensive and will help to address many of the present problems of the country.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on belarus.
my colleagues, i have a difficulty. we have two minutes for the catch-the-eye procedure, which means two speakers. i'm up to eight or nine requests and i can still see hands going up, bringing us up to about ten. so, either i give the first two speakers the floor -- it's very easy for me -- or i ask you to make a statement in thirty seconds and we make an effort to get everyone through. (the second solution is adopted.)
thank you, your message is received.
and that concludes our new speedy catch-the-eye procedure. i see that you have been able to prove that a lot can be said in a very short time and i thank you for that. we now come to the commission's reaction.
member of the commission. − mr president, recently, the situation in belarus has been evolving rapidly. since mid-january, five of the six political prisoners previously identified as such have been released. one of these political prisoners, though, former presidential candidate aleksandr kozulin, is still in jail and in a poor state of health. the commission, for its part, through my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner, has expressed its satisfaction with the release of the prisoners, which has been a long-standing request from all eu institutions, including the european parliament. but we have equally been clear that we want to see all political prisoners freed, and that we want to see an end to the systematic harassment of belarusian civil society, before we can give a new dimension to our relationship with belarus. in other words, our message to belarus remains the same: there cannot be a full partnership with belarus until belarus takes convincing steps towards democratisation, and respect for human rights and the rule of law. this is the gist of the european message to belarus that the commission released over a year ago and which includes the ‘12 points for democratisation’ that your resolution mentions. again, the release of all political prisoners would be an important step in this regard. in addition, we will be closely watching the parliamentary elections set for september 2008. the organisation of free and fair elections would be seen as a decisive step on the part of the belarusian authorities. we hope that the osce will be able to send a full-scale observation mission to this election and that the european parliament will also be able to send representatives. another important point that your resolution demands is that belarus should apply a moratorium on the death penalty. the european union has carried this message to the belarusian authorities. coming back now to the recent developments in belarus, another issue close to our hearts has been progressing fast over the last months: the opening of the european commission’s delegation in minsk, which we officially requested more than two years ago, is now imminent. we hope to be able to sign the establishment agreement soon, so that our delegation can be opened without delay. this delegation will allow us to reinforce our links with belarusian civil society and also to develop contacts with the middle rank of the administration that could be open to democratic change. on this matter, as your resolution underlines, we have had a number of meetings at technical level with belarusian experts on matters of mutual interest, such as energy, transport and environment. let me, however, reiterate that the scope of these meetings remains limited as long as the current political conditions prevail in belarus. as regards to the commission actions to support civil society in belarus, the commission remains committed more than ever to supporting belarusian civil society, and our 2008 assistance plan is aimed in particular at cementing belarusian civil society and independent media. in addition, the commission has also made clear that its support to the european humanity university in exile in vilnius will continue as long as necessary. i will also pass the message about the free university on to commissioner figeľ. i think that this is very interesting and a bright idea. a few other comments to mr pinior and ms schroedter. the opening of the negotiations on visa facilitation and on readmission is amongst the elements that would be considered in the event of a real breakthrough in our relationship. according to eu policy, visa facilitation can only be considered in the context of the european commission readmission policy as part of a real partnership in external relations. this was explained to belarus in the verbal notes sent by the commission on 8 may. the european union’s willingness to enter into such negotiations with neighbouring countries with an action plan in force has also been reaffirmed, by the commission communication on this matter of december 2006. in the case of belarus these conditions are not met. on the point raised by mr bielan, commission contracts are awarded following strict tendering procedures in order to ensure a transparent and fair competition. this means that the commission does not support radio and tv stations as such, but specific programmes instead. the enpi regional information and communication programme includes support to media activities of eur 7 million over three years for seven countries. the tendering procedure is ongoing, and media from both european union and partner countries are eligible to submit tenders for contracts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on north kivu (democratic republic of congo).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission remains very concerned about the dire humanitarian situation in the kivus, and north kivu in particular, where the number of internally displaced people – currently exceeding 800 000 in north kivu alone – has as much as doubled in the course of 2007, thus alarmingly increasing the vulnerability of the population already suffering hardship. at the same time, we are aware of, and condemn, the severe human rights abuses – including recruitment of child soldiers and widespread sexual violence – taking place in the region. yet, in this context, it is important to remember that today’s critical situation in north kivu, while exacerbated by the fighting taking place in the second half of 2007, is a result of years of war in the region. the root causes of the kivu conflict can be traced all the way to the rwandan genocide at the beginning of the 1990s, while also bearing in mind that there are several local components – such as insufficient political representation of ethnic minorities, pillaging of natural resources and land tenure issues – that significantly contribute to the instability and insecurity in eastern democratic republic of congo. that is why the commission welcomes the recent goma peace conference and the following cease-fire as positive steps towards solving the enduring conflict in eastern democratic republic of congo. the conference restored president kabila’s credibility after the army’s defeat against general nkunda’s troops at the end of 2007, and launched an inter-provincial dialogue process – something that the commission has always advocated. moreover, along the lines of the commitments made by the democratic republic of congo and rwanda in their nairobi joint communiqué in november 2007, the goma conference also re-emphasised the need to tackle the problem of the ex-far as a priority. at the same time, it was made clear that there is a need to address the root causes of the conflict, while restoring the state authority in the east. that said, it should not be forgotten that nothing was definitively solved at goma or nairobi. finding a permanent solution to the root causes of the kivu crisis, and thus a sustainable restoration of peace in the region, will take time. indeed, while complementing each other, the nairobi joint communiqué and the goma conference represent an encouraging start – but only a start – of a difficult and lengthy process. the main challenge ahead is now an effective implementation of the nairobi and goma commitments. it ought to be assured that all the concerned stakeholders stand by their commitments. the eu will continue to follow closely and participate actively in this process. in this context, international action in support of the congolese is very much needed. the commission, together with the member states, is ready to continue to play an important role in the kivus. we have traditionally been one of the most important donors in the east, via our humanitarian assistance and our rehabilitation and capacity-building programmes. we are willing to further increase our support for the region, especially through european initiatives, as well as in close collaboration with the united nations.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned and wish everyone a safe return to work. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
mr president, what has just happened, which has made some members laugh, is very serious. this is my dear colleague joseph daul, a 23-year-old man sentenced to death for downloading a text on women's rights in islam, in a country which has close relations with the european union, where soldiers from our countries are defending afghanistan, with a new constitution which officially protects fundamental rights and freedom of expression. with one vote, you have just taken on a responsibility that i hope you will not have to regret bitterly. (applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago in annapolis, israelis and palestinians dreamed a dream: the dream of two peoples finally living after decades of conflict, bereaved families and tragedy, each in their own state, within internationally recognised and secure borders. a few months ago, at the paris conference, the international community wanted to guarantee this dream and give it the means to become a reality. europe, the world's leading donor, believes in this future of peace and security and is working hard, within the framework of the quartet, to help both sides break the vicious circle of violence and misunderstanding. however, within a few days, the disproportionate use of force and armed provocations resulted in the deaths of dozens of palestinians in the gaza strip and of several israeli soldiers in violent clashes. now, just last thursday, a palestinian was killed, killed eight students at a prestigious talmudic school. the bullets fired by fanatics and individuals driven by revenge, intolerance and rejection of the other have made the search for dialogue, compromise and peace even more difficult. the international community and we in europe cannot and should not judge either side. our job is to bring the annapolis signatories to their senses, which means to the negotiating table. the epp-ed delegation i led to jerusalem and ramallah a few weeks ago taught me three things. the first is europe's expectation in the middle east. not just a europe that supports the peace process financially, although this is essential, but a europe that is much more present and stronger politically. we need to do more and better about this. secondly, we must encourage the moderate parties in israel and palestine and assure them of our political support. these parties have chosen a risky and often unprofitable line: that of peace, dialogue, responsibility towards their peoples. it is these parties and moderate personalities that we must encourage with all our strength, because they and they alone hold the keys to a peaceful and lasting solution in this region. finally, the third element: europe must make it clear to each of the parties that they will not be able to break out of this vicious circle - security, defence, violence - by building walls, by firing deadly rockets, by imposing humiliations. no, you can't! only by giving the neighbour, and especially the young, the opportunity to build their future, to realise their plans, to flourish in their own land, can a virtuous circle be born and bear fruit. ladies and gentlemen, i welcome with my group the fact that the israeli and palestinian leaders have just called once again for the continuation of the dialogue in accordance with the annapolis road map. europe must make a qualitative leap in its political support. i say, in political support for the moderate forces in power. it is the only way out and yesterday at the mass we heard a palestinian representative and a jewish representative asking for the same thing: peace for their peoples. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can't give you the peace plan in two minutes, but i can tell you a few things. we should also check our vocabulary: we do not need dialogue, we need negotiations! this dialogue is not saying anything. there's a war going on there, and to end the war, there has to be negotiations. that's the point! how do you negotiate? graham watson is right: if the european union is pursuing its own strategy and not the american strategy , then it must do the following: first, negotiate with those who have the power in gaza, and that is hamas, so that they do what they have always said, which is to organize a ceasefire. then on the other hand, it's organized to get humanitarian aid into gaza. it's called a negotiation: you give something, we give something. secondly, we must tell the israelis that if they want to negotiate with the palestinians, they must do one thing: stop all settlement building immediately, and visibly, otherwise the european union will stop helping. that's what i call a trial! i'm in a position of power and i'm trying to play it out, otherwise it's all bullshit on all sides! i am in favour of this dialogue and we shall have this dialogue. i am in favour of making politics, of simply saying that this cannot go on. israel's colonial policy is a danger to the state of israel. we have to tell the israelis. and to the palestinians we must say: this attack is a threat to the palestinians, it must stop. if the european union finally moves from dialogue to political negotiation, that is to say, if it also plays a role of power, then there will be an opportunity in this region. so, dialogue comes later, first the politics must come! (applause from the centre)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, thank you for your statement. we had hardly decided on this solemn initiative when, after the 110 palestinians killed in the bombings in gaza, there was the massacre that claimed eight lives, this time israeli, in jerusalem. we have all condemned these crimes, but we all see clearly - i agree with my predecessor - that something else is needed to hope to break this vicious circle once and for all. what is needed is that the union has the courage, beyond the necessary condemnation of all the crimes committed, by whoever, to name the root cause of all the evils, the occupation, and with it all that sinister procession of cruelties and humiliations - those inexhaustible sources of hatred, despair and desire for revenge. there is therefore no justification for continuing the occupation. it must also be said clearly and be followed by consequences. a prominent israeli peace-maker, our friend nurit peled, sakharov prize winner, said no different when she lost her child in an attack by a palestinian. addressing the then prime minister, mr netanyahu, she said: "you killed my daughter". this "you" was more than a man, it was a policy that his successors continued and amplified. it is now called the "gaza blockade", which goes as far as depriving its civilian population of food and medical care. and it is more generally called "blockade of cities and villages in the west bank", "raids and bombings", "targeted assassinations and mass arrests", including of children, "continued settlement and construction of the wall", "annexations and political deeds in jerusalem", etc. to dismiss these crimes and to ensure impunity for their perpetrators is to prolong the war. to join hands with the forces of peace on both sides, one must dare to speak the truth. this is the decisive step which we must call on the union to take at last.
the point is closed.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues.
we are now forced to stop as it is well over thirty minutes. that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the bilateral agreements currently under negotiation between the united states and certain member states on visas and 'pnr' data.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this own-initiative report, mr albertini has stressed the need for a comprehensive policy which takes account of all aspects: transport, energy and the environment. human mobility, which is a source of wealth for society in various ways - economic, social and cultural - cannot be achieved without energy and often has negative consequences for the environment. every society - and the european union in particular - must seek a balance. a difficult task! it is in this context that the european union makes its full sense by playing a decisive role in the harmonious development of transport: the single european railway market, the single european sky, the trans-european transport networks, the european port policy. by setting ambitious targets with the energy-climate package, action must now relay the discourse, the discourses on these shared goals. and as plato said, "it is only up to us to take the road that goes up and avoid the road that goes down". coordination and cooperation are the keywords of this policy. coordination of infrastructure at european level to benefit from a global vision of transport networks, cooperation with local actors who are best able to provide a practical and realistic vision of the issues at stake, because this is europe. the aim is to achieve harmony by pooling efforts, by exchanging good practice in the interests of citizens and the environment, and, not forgetting the prevert inventory, by providing significant additional financial support to complete the priority transeuropean transport projects as soon as possible. but, above all, if we focus on the local, it seems to me that the integrated approach can only be efficient through an intermodal approach supported financially by europe, especially in the congested metropolitan and urban areas, for guaranteed, safe and affordable mobility, in short, ecological and sustainable mobility.
mr president, most of our countries have in their budgetary law credit lines to deal with disasters. for example, french budgetary law has global appropriations which allow, by advance decree, the commitment of appropriations in case of emergency. since november 2002, european budgetary law has been endowed with this financial right for disasters with this solidarity fund. we have also created the globalisation injury compensation fund for economic disasters. as far as natural disasters are concerned, we are asked to contribute less than 4% to the repair of the damage of over 4 billion suffered in britain in june 2007 as a result of floods. nine months to commit appropriations is a long time, since by definition these are emergency situations. that means that the amending budget technique for authorizing commitment is not operational. the amending budget should be used earlier to ratify the commitment which will have to be made in advance by means of provisional and non-limiting appropriations for disasters, floods or fires. this is a good example of pragmatism, given that the 162 million euros in solidarity for britain from adam smith, ricardo and mrs thatcher, who believe only in the market, darwinism and natural selection, is a good example. the lion that roars in the economic jungle discovers, when it is wet, the virtues of solidarity. as has happened three times before - mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and floods - our british colleagues will also have the opportunity tomorrow to show solidarity with the european farmers who are suffering from the effects of imports.
mr president, commissioner, we are now at last at the start of the procedure for the political priorities for 2009. it is a major step forward, since there will be many changes - new mandate, the introduction of the treaty - and it is also a new response from parliament to the commission on its spa, since we have chosen to have the political groups speak rather than the committee on budgets. the political choices of the socialist group are clear and have been reiterated: this is social europe. it is europe for this priority in the fight against climate change; it is also europe for common external action. and, you see, when i see that the commission wants the eu's contribution to international security and stability to be increased, i wonder where the money is going to come from. how can we fulfill this godly desire? if we continue in this way, we will be put, as we are every year, by the council in an untenable position: to choose which part of the world to sacrifice. a fourth priority for us is the citizen; the commission is telling us that we must put the citizen first in 2009. it is high time, because our political project, far from the people, cannot continue. so we need to strengthen all exchanges, all information, all communication, but with what money? the budget is clearly not adequate. the available margins are already pre-empted and we in the committee on budgets do not know how to finance these priorities. we do not want to sacrifice old priorities to implement new ones. how are you going to do that? there is a great urgency to get europe out of its budgetary and management magma. the political world is changing very rapidly and we in europe are producing ideas, but we have never been able to adopt our means of implementing them in a pragmatic way to meet the political expectations which are certainly those of parliament, but also those of the citizens.
mr president, we are now in the final phase of the creation of the eit. i welcome the negotiating work between the various institutions to reach a balanced solution to make this institute the symbol of innovation in line with our great ambitions. the emphasis is therefore on innovation, a fundamental value in europe. the first kics will focus on key areas such as climate change and renewable energy, not to mention nanotechnologies which need real support. the european union will be firmly committed to innovation. the europe of innovation, the innovation of europe, the eit is the missing link between these two concepts, the missing link which, as it will be voted on tomorrow, will enable the european union to move forward. it is by believing in roses that we make them bloom, anatole france reminded us. the eit is like a rose in our european garden. all the climatic conditions must be present for the tie to flower. i regretted, at first reading, the low financial resources allocated to the eti, the insufficiency of this support: 308 million euros is not a sufficient response to meet our ambitions. we must therefore, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, change the financial climate and provide the means to achieve our real ambitions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the consultation report by my german colleague reimer böge, which supports the proposal for a council decision amending the 2003 decision laying down the multiannual financial guidelines for the management of the assets of the european coal and steel community (ecsc) in liquidation since 2002 and, after the liquidation has been completed, of the assets of the research fund for coal and steel. it was necessary to update the management of these funds in the light of developments in the markets and financial products, while maintaining a high degree of security and long-term stability.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my british colleague neil parish on the amendment of the 2007 council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products which had been adopted on the basis of the situation as at 31 december 2006. after having brought together in one comprehensive regulation the 21 regulations applicable to common sectoral market organisations with a view to rationalising and simplifying the legal framework for market policies such as intervention, private storage, import tariff quotas, export refunds, safeguard measures, state aid, competition rules and the reporting and notification of data, it became necessary to update that text to take account of decisions taken since 2006 in the sugar, fruit and vegetables, processed fruit and vegetables, seeds, beef and milk and milk products sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my british colleague neil parish on the amendment of the 2007 council regulation on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and on specific provisions for the flax and hemp sectors. the european commission, which is due to submit a report on the extension of the production aid for short flax fibre and hemp fibre, which was due to be abolished from the 2008/09 marketing year, is proposing to extend this aid pending the review of policies to be carried out in 2008 as part of the health check of the common agricultural policy. i support this proposal which is wisdom.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague paolo costa on the joint text, after conciliation, of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing the 2002 regulation adopted in the wake of the attacks of 11 september 2001 in the united states of america, which was to be reviewed in the light of its application. it is welcome that a compromise has been reached on the financing of security measures, which will be shared between the member states and airport entities, airlines and users. i am pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in convincing the council and the commission to use the regulatory procedure with scrutiny for a whole range of measures when defining common basic standards for aviation safety; for example, passenger checks and items that may be prohibited such as liquids.
in writing. i welcome the adoption, at second reading and on the basis of the report by my finnish colleague reino paasilinna, of the council's common position with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european institute of technology, which was the idea put forward by the president of the european commission, josé-manuel barroso, in february 2005 and which has raised various doubts about the added value that such a structure can offer. as much as i share the views and concerns about the difficulties of financing such a project, i consider it essential to develop such a tool to put knowledge at the heart of the european ideal, because it is through the development of knowledge and not the culture of ignorance that our humanistic european civilization will progress. i am also aware that our budgetary structure in the european union is becoming increasingly inadequate, particularly for financing large projects such as this one (or galileo for example). finally, i cannot understand why the green group tabled an amendment, which i voted against with my political group, to reject and thus delay the implementation of the common position.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my distinguished italian colleague gabriele albertini which makes a number of recommendations to the players in this sector to improve a situation that is deteriorating in the face of increasing demand for oil with dwindling reserves, increasingly congested urban areas, and a negative impact on human health and climate change. i support the three axes chosen to combine public policies: encouraging technological progress (cars with a maximum of 125 grams of co2 per km), developing market instruments (system of trading of co2 emission rights, tax incentives, environmental fees/tariffs, etc.) and using accompanying measures to optimise the use of transport and infrastructure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on sustainable transport policy. it takes account of european energy and environmental policies. a proportion of 70% of oil demand in the eu is attributable to the transport sector. the almost total dependence on fossil fuels must be ended by combining the different policies that cover all modes of transport. this approach must meet the necessary conditions to be realistic, such as technological innovation to reduce co2 emissions from cars and the development of biofuels, the reform of the taxation system to take account of the impact on the environment, accompanying measures to optimise the use of infrastructure and to encourage citizens to change their habits. each citizen can be a player in sustainable transport by favouring public transport over private cars when this alternative is possible. to facilitate the mobility of people and goods by means of low-emission transport modes such as rail, inland waterway, maritime transport and public transport, new services will have to be offered, the sector will have to be organised in a more competitive way and certain infrastructures will have to be used differently.
mr president, commissioner, mr council representative, i thank mr goebbels for his work, because it is important that the european parliament expresses its opinion on the broad guidelines which follow from the cap health check. i am very wary of total decoupling, which carries significant risks for livestock farming and even for certain crops in terms of production abandonment. i also do not share the optimism of some who believe that the present situation on world markets provides a secure and lasting future for european agriculture and that we must persevere on the road to total liberalization. moreover, not all agricultural sectors benefit equally from price increases, as the particularly serious crisis currently affecting european livestock farming shows. i therefore believe that the total abandonment of any mechanism for regulating markets is dangerous for our food security and that of the world. i think we must ensure that we maintain intervention stocks to be able to react in the event of a food crisis and speculation, maintain common market organizations ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, mr goepel, in berlin - it will be almost ten years - chancellor schmidt and french president jacques chirac decided to grant a reprieve to farmers until 2013. with the end of milk quotas, the end of a real agricultural budget in the 2014-2019 financial framework, and the retirement without replacement of a majority of producers, the end of a large cap was simply scheduled for 2013. today you are calling that agreement into question and, under the name of the 'health balance of the cap', you are accelerating the process of eliminating our agriculture within the first pillar. it's not new! macsharry, steichen, fischler, with quotas, qmg, herod bonuses, hunting, decoupling, and grubbing-up, had already been practicing for thirty years this strategy of leaving the monopoly of world food to the southern hemisphere and the pacific states. today, in the exciting technical debates on decoupling, modulation - gradual, gradual - eco-conditionality, rural development, reference - historical, non-historical - only hide the one and only real question, while china and india will launch a call for global food supply, while the dawn of farmers arrives with rising prices and demand. does europe want, yes or no, to be one of the world's great farms alongside brazil? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, the context of agriculture has changed a lot since 2003, and the analyses we have today are already out of date and not really up to the crucial challenges of the future. the demand for food is exploding, prices are rising, making it unaffordable for the poorest, and at the same time, farmland is disappearing. the agrofuels that are subsidized are very destabilizing to agriculture. we should also stress the impact of climate change and, above all, the challenge our citizens are putting to an intensive, ultra-liberal industrial model, which means that food products travel thousands of kilometres around the world, all this accompanied by social and ecological dumping. so what we really need now is a thorough reform of the common agricultural policy, and not just a technical adaptation of the existing instruments, as you are proposing today. and it is really a course, a clear strategic direction which we also need at the present time and which we are lacking most today.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the goepel report offers a good compromise between the commission's bold proposals and the concerns of our farmers. i am glad that mr lutz has given us this report, and we know that it was not easy. good proposals are emerging. this is the case, firstly, of the system of direct aids which must be amended, given that the member states must be able to benefit from more flexibility in implementing this change. if decoupling is to continue, it must take account of the difficulties currently facing certain sectors, in particular the livestock sector and certain crop products which are very important for many regions, such as flax fodder or hemp, which must benefit from an appropriate transitional period. the modulation proposed seems to me too important and throws the first pillar out of balance. the rules relating to fallow land must be reformed, but the commission must first define clearly the instruments which will make it possible to preserve the benefits it brings, particularly in terms of biodiversity. a revision and strengthening of article 69 would also be a means of providing effective financial support to vulnerable areas, such as mountainous regions, the restructuring of sectors in difficulty, such as livestock and milk, or risk management. finally, madam commissioner, we must really address the question of biofuels, which are very controversial from an ecological point of view. perhaps it is at the time of the physical examination that we should ask ourselves this question.
mr president, i would like to emphasize four dimensions for the development of the cap. the continuation of direct aid, which is an essential element: it is proved that no economy in the world allows its farmers to live decently without financial support. the environment, which shapes agriculture as much as agriculture shapes the environment. it is therefore important to maintain the criteria for conditionality for the granting of aid. any agreement at the wto must deal with the issue of protected geographical indications, animal welfare, the health status of imported products, for the sake of fair competition and because health problems do not stop at borders. finally, the contribution of agriculture to climate change and sustainable development needs to be defined. i would ask the european commission to look into the question of the share of arable land in the european union that can be used for fuel and green chemistry. i welcome this resolution, which reflects the challenges facing agriculture of tomorrow, both in its role as a nurturer and in its contribution to the preservation of our environment.
author. - mr president, mr council representative, thank you very much, commissioner, for being here, but we were expecting - as you probably know and as you suspect - commissioner charlie mccreevy. you will tell him that this parliament does not quite understand why he is not here today in this debate. i have heard that he thought it was inappropriate to discuss these matters with the european parliament before discussing them in the european council, or before the european council had discussed them. however, this was on the agenda of ecofin and draft conclusions are circulating throughout brussels, and perhaps in some european capitals. we have a debate tomorrow in the plenary to prepare for the european council, so why can't we prepare these questions with the european parliament when it comes to the financial markets? that is something we do not understand, unless the commissioner is campaigning in ireland for the lisbon treaty, but at that time he can tell us. if it's preparing for his future, we're interested in it, too. in any case, if commissioner charlie mccreevy wants to be an advocate for transparency in the financial markets, i think he should start by being transparent about his own agenda! financial innovation is an important issue. i also believe that it is time for us in this parliament to act on the need for regulation. we are often told that if you regulate the financial markets, capital will leave the european market. i believe that today, as my american colleague says, the only thing we are seeing is the flight of the consequences of sub-prime loans, not the flight of capital. when we approach this debate, we want to do so with a threefold concern. of course, functioning financial markets, but also a capacity to finance the real economy and a capacity to anticipate the needs for financial market stability and to combat systemic risk. it is in this spirit that we are approaching the preparations for the european council today, with the idea that european monetary policy may have responded well at the beginning of the crisis, but that today, in a certain sense, the european supervisor is naked. and that's what we're worried about. when we look at all the issues to be discussed at the next european council, we ask ourselves: what is the real capacity at european level to anticipate a crisis? we're talking about an early warning system, a warning system. but what we're finding is that at the market scale, the ones that have really been in the alert capacity are called goldman sachs. so, are we going to draw all the lessons for our european functioning? i hear a lot about transparency here and there. we are all for transparency. but what is this call for transparency when, for the last eight months, all the major investment banks have been called upon to give their figures, to give their assessment of their risk-taking. they cannot do this because there is a reputational issue behind it, and, i am sure, a valuation issue, which is extremely difficult to deal with. so when i hear about an alternative that would be the early warning system, the warning system - i've already said a word about this - but, as an imf adviser told me the other day, the early warning system is a bit like when you see on a pack of cigarettes that it says, "smoking kills you". how does that change your behavior? that is not entirely decisive. of course, there is a role for the imf and the financial stability forum in this matter. who could not know? but, it should not be experienced as an alternative to our ability to look at how our systems work. and now i must say that the surprises are growing for this parliament. when we adopted the ehler report on guarantee systems on 13 december last, we were told that it was far too complex and that it would not provide any guarantee as to the functioning of the systems. this is now seen in the main conclusions of ecofin as a way out of the crisis or, at any rate, as an urgent matter to be reopened. if you reopen it, commissioner, or rather if your colleague charlie mccreevy reopens it, we will be in the back to examine it. but at some point, perhaps, we should listen more to what this parliament has to say on matters like this. similarly, with regard to the rating agencies, we can only refer you or commissioner charlie mccreevy to what we have said before. we know that the commission wants to put forward proposals on the amendment of the so-called crd directive. we will look at these proposals carefully, but we do not think that this will be enough to provide the european union with the system of supervision it needs if we do not take into account all the proposals that have now been on the table for many months. this also applies to the situation of the supervisory committees, the three level 3 committees, as we usually say. we need a legislative proposal for these three level 3 committees which gives them a solid legal basis for action and strengthens their capacity, including in dialogue with the other supervisory authorities, because the idea that we will involve the other supervisory authorities without having a solid supervisory mechanism ourselves does not seem satisfactory to us. we want the council and the commission to examine all the proposals on the table, and i cannot of course forget the proposals made by the italian finance minister, mr padoa-schioppa, at the ecofin council in december. in the same spirit, we would like to see us, once again, thinking more proactively about improving our regulatory system, while respecting subsidiarity. we also do not believe that the lead supervisor hypothesis will satisfy all the member states. that is why this parliament will have to advocate a solution which includes all the member states and which allows everyone to feel comfortable in a supervisory system. on all these questions, i thank you, mr commissioner, for your clarifications, knowing that, of course, i am only raising questions which arise in the economic and monetary affairs committee, since we have not yet deliberated on a formal report.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this report by mr tabajdi. energy sources are diverse but not all have the same potential, nor the same environmental impacts. in view of the fight against climate change and the waste of natural resources, it seems necessary to take all of these measures into account. biogas is therefore an energy that must be encouraged. it is important to avoid creating competition between biogas production and food production. to this end, priority should be given to encouraging the production of biogas from manure, sludge and municipal, organic and animal waste. as regards the production of biogas from waste, i would like to stress that it is actually a matter of profiting from waste, that is to say, from nuisances. so it is up to us to be sure that we are not mistaken. first of all, we must reduce the volume of waste. it is also important that biogas is not used solely for electricity generation but that it is used primarily for optimized local recovery and under safe health conditions to supply natural gas networks. to this end, any technical constraints to allow access to the network should be managed. research and development must also be increased in all aspects of the sector: sources, installations, distribution and use. the legislation must therefore be revised to take account of the reality and the benefits of the biogas sector.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as europe gradually acquires the instruments to limit climate change linked to greenhouse gas emissions, and as european citizens are suffering the full effects of rising energy prices, it is of course important to finally develop a legal basis for the collection and dissemination of energy statistics. but we felt equally urgent to make them coherent with the challenges we face: saving energy, redefining our energy mix, with less carbon and much more renewable energy. the few new elements in this regulation are therefore more a coherent redefinition of the scope of statistics than a series of sporadic additions. my approach as the fictitious rapporteur for the socialist group has been to ensure that these statistics can be of ever greater use to the european citizens, but also to those who govern them. they are becoming more reliable for analysis and increasingly useful for decision support. for the citizens, we have advocated and obtained more transparent statistics covering the elements that most closely affect them: housing, transport, but also the nuclear sector. the governments, on the other hand, are of the opinion that the most up-to-date statistics will be available at the usual energy councils held every spring. we shall see how far the objectives are being achieved in this respect. moreover, the result of these amendments is, in my view, fairly modest, i.e. they will not unduly increase the workload of the states or the various partners involved. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr claude turmes, and his entire team for their willingness to compromise. finally, i would like to thank eurostat for its very useful and effective support throughout this process in order to promote a result that is now recognised as sound.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the priority of the spring european council will be to promote growth in europe and to relaunch the lisbon strategy for the period 2008-2010. our group believes that it is essential to give the union its full chance in the face of globalisation and to reform it, as the european commission has been actively proposing since 2005, under the presidency of josé manuel barroso. this strategy is the best tool to face the challenges ahead: globalisation, demography and climate change. our message is twofold: to continue the reforms already undertaken, but also to make the lisbon strategy more effective. globalisation is a chance for europe, but we will never accept unbridled free trade. that's the first challenge. we must protect the interests of the most vulnerable and promote our social model. it is not time to change course, but to redouble our efforts along the lines already traced. and for each challenge, the lisbon strategy offers an appropriate response. in the face of competition from emerging countries, our future lies in research and innovation, in supporting entrepreneurs, in lifelong learning or in labour market reform. europe will only be competitive if products have added value in terms of quality and innovation. that is why i call on the member states to invest heavily in research and innovation. nor will growth and employment be achieved by developing small and mediumsized enterprises. we must help them to win markets and create jobs by reducing the administrative burden. the preparation of a european-style small business act is a step in the right direction. education and training must be adapted to the needs of the economy. we will only remain competitive if our workforce is properly trained. school and university education, as well as continuing training, must be reviewed and, above all, strengthened. in this regard, we welcome the 2007-2013 programme for lifelong learning. and finally, profound reforms are needed in the labour market, which must be more mobile, more flexible and also more secure. companies must be able to adapt to market requirements. employees must be able to benefit from the possibilities of conversion and adaptation. the second challenge for europe is demographic. the ageing population will lead to labour shortages and strains on the social system. the internal workforce needs to be better activated and flexibility and adaptability for all generations better promoted in order to better reconcile work and family life. we also need to review our immigration policy, which is necessarily european, and attract the skills and know-how. the blue card proposal must be developed. it is also necessary to curb the brain drain. our investment in education will be in vain if researchers go abroad to benefit from better pay and working conditions abroad. the third and final challenge is climate change. we need to put in place a policy framework for a sustainable, environmentally friendly economy, which means meeting the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. in addition to the environmental benefit we will derive from this, it will also put us in a good position for the clean technology markets. it's not insignificant. but we have to set an example. our partners must do the same. green policy must be accompanied by a foreign trade policy which is not protectionist but demanding. my dear colleagues, we will only preserve our values and our model of society if we have the courage to reform our society and tell the truth to our fellow citizens. we'll only do social work if growth is on the rise. and growth will only happen if we give ourselves the means to do so. once is not enough: i would like to thank the president of the commission, mr verheugen, and all the commissioners for their work. these thanks, my dear friends, are for a stable: the barroso stable. it's the oats that are used to thank them for the work they've done, but it's also the oats that should give them the energy for all the work that's left to do. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of this spring summit, the economy is in turmoil, the markets are unregulated, the stock exchanges are cracking, growth is slowing down. this is the way global capitalism works, sometimes creating wealth, sometimes destroying values, subject to the vagaries of markets, its speculative bubbles, its derivatives, its crazy traders, who do only what they are asked to do, that is, to seek the maximum profit in the minimum time. but if markets are like that, no human society can live like that. in any case, this is what can make europe's very meaning in this globalised market, a europe which obviously cannot escape these storms entirely, which is itself an actor in globalisation, which often benefits from it, but which is largely its meaning, its vocation in this globalisation, to counterbalance this insane capitalism by public regulations, economic stabilisers, active public policies to support the growth of the real economy, to support public and private investment in research, innovation and european infrastructure. monetary policy, for example, must protect stability - and it does - but it must also stimulate growth, adjust parities as much as possible to protect our exports, and today, unfortunately, this is not yet the case. finally, and most importantly, and this is the insistence of our group, the union must counterbalance this instability of the financialized economy by effective social protection, sound public services, and guaranteed social rights for workers. mr president, at the moment europe must be much more anticipatory, protective, and that is why it cannot be a mere internal market in the vast global market. she needs to be more social. it is also in this way that it will gain more support and confidence from the citizens. so we support the lisbon strategy, we support a lisbon strategy which is really based on these three pillars - and you have just developed them - but we must translate your declarations into action, into real policies of the union, otherwise we will be left with words in relation to your social intentions. that is why we have asked for the guidelines to be revised, because they are the instrument of control. but above all, we ask concretely, because it is the substance that matters, that you relaunch the european social agenda, that there be, for example, a reaction from the commission to the laval case, that it use its power of initiative to propose a revision of the directive on the posting of workers; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social dialogue is carried out in a timely manner and effectively in the large groups facing restructuring. i would like to see a revision of the directive, a real adaptation of the working time directive to combat opt-outs and abuses of excessive working time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that, mr president of the commission, is our message: use your power of initiative to help the council adopt an ambitious programme for social europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office, the spring summits leave a bitter taste in my mouth. it is true that we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of europe's existence and it is good to keep the memory alive. and i remember, ladies and gentlemen, the gothenburg summit, which was a great victory for ecology, since the heads of state had agreed that the spring summit should be set up to take stock of the sustainable development of our policies at european union level, that is to say, the environmental health balance, the health balance and social integration. in europe, for example, mittal-arcelor, the energy-consuming company par excellence, is going to cut 600 jobs while making monstrous profits and the union is about to give it free greenhouse gas emission quotas. so our citizens are helpless, our youth is anxious about the legacy we leave them. mr president, you are announcing a revolution by proposing, for example, a 20% cut in greenhouse gas emissions. we know that this is absolutely beneath what needs to be done. mr lester brown, for example, who joined us last week, sobbing, said that we needed an 80% reduction by 2020 to hopefully change the trend. so no, gentlemen, i don't believe in your project, it's way below, it's absolutely not up to the environmental crisis that's endangering the entire planet.
mr president, mr president of the commission, when you are in the european council, i ask you to do one thing: defend this institution when it tells you that the economic and social situation in the european union requires greater attention to the social question, requires us to bring our economic policies into line with our objectives and our legitimately developed strategy on climate change and energy independence; when it tells you that to succeed in the lisbon strategy we need more economic coordination; i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. let us not allow the member states to say that we have nothing to do with these matters, that is not acceptable in a modern democracy! mr president-in-office of the council, at the request of certain heads of state or government who are legitimately concerned about the situation on the financial markets, you are going to examine the consequences of this situation for the real economy of the european union. so take this subject seriously and do not be satisfied with a few proposals that may appear to be attractive, popular, but that do not deal with the subject at hand. the basic issue is that we have an integrated financial market, we have a central bank that conducts monetary policy in the interests of the european economy as a whole, but we do not have a european financial market supervisor that is up to the challenges and the stakes.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would like to ask you for your opinion on the monetary policy of the union. mr president-in-office, you said that you would have an exchange of views on the functioning of the financial markets. it would be interesting if the heads of state and government had an exchange of views on the monetary policy of the union. mr president of the european commission, i would like to know what your opinion is on the application of article 105 of the treaty, which provides for price stability but also, if we have price stability, attention to economic growth. do you consider that the european system of central banks is functioning properly today?
mr president, i will be very brief. if we want to respond to what our colleagues have been saying all morning, as group chairman, we must put it in the rules of procedure. we can go around, take a detour to the edge. if we want to have the debate again, we will. mr schulz, i simply want to say that my group and i are as much in the social field as you are, and we are all... (applause) i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you can do social work when you have earned money economically and you cannot do as the socialists do, and spend money you have never earned. (applause from the right)
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which makes it compulsory for member states to participate in the collection of data necessary for efficient energy statistics. this is a prerequisite for the eu to live up to its stated ambition of building a coherent european energy policy and speaking with one voice on the international stage. the commission will have to ensure that these statistics are comparable, transparent, detailed and flexible. the eu has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in the eu's total energy consumption by 2020, with a 10% target for biofuels. the energy statistics system must adapt to these commitments and take account of the growing importance of energy efficiency, renewable energies, the greenhouse effect, the development of nuclear energy and the emergence of biofuels. greater attention will also have to be paid to the security of supply of the main fuels. more up-to-date and accurate data at eu level will be needed to anticipate and coordinate eu responses to possible supply crises.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my belgian colleague bart staes on the relevant statistics on pesticides. i welcome the action of the european commission, which, as early as the sixth community environment action programme in 2002, recognised that the use of pesticides has a significant impact on human health and the environment. their use must therefore be approached in a sustainable development logic and be the subject of harmonised and comparable community statistics on production, import, export and marketing in order to develop and monitor community legislation in this field. it is important to note that pesticides are used not only in agricultural activities but also in green space maintenance services, road services and rail transport companies. finally, i support the idea of clarifying the terminology plant protection products by replacing it with the term pesticides in the regulation while clearly specifying what it is.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the long-term, worrying consequences of the ubiquitous presence of pesticide residues are only beginning to be seen: cancer, endocrine disruption, reduced male fertility, weakened immune defenses, and behavioral disorders. exposure to pesticides may increase the risk of asthma in children. monitoring the risks associated with pesticide use therefore requires appropriate indicators. those indicators should provide available, transparent, relevant and reliable data to reduce the risks and harm to the environment and human health arising from their use. the active components of biocides are also used as plant protection products and produce almost the same effects on health and the environment. therefore, this category must be clearly defined and taken into account by these statistics. to make the figures as realistic as possible, statistics should cover not only the use of plant protection products in agricultural activities but also in non-agricultural activities such as green space maintenance services, road services or railway transport undertakings. in the long term, a quantitative and quantified reduction in the use of these products will have to be implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the advisory report by my german colleague elisabeth jeggle on the increase in milk quotas from 1 april 2008. this is to meet the growing demand for milk within the european union itself and also on world markets. i welcome the compromise to allow member states to increase their production quotas by 2% by 1 april 2008 with possibilities for rebalancing between countries that exceed and those that under-use their quotas to limit the penalties for exceeding at european level.
in writing. there were, they said, streams of milk, mountains of butter, and frosty chests of meat. brussels then invented the malthusian instruments to sell off production. there were the headquarters, the farm, the slaughter premiums and the quotas... for milk. thousands of dairy farmers have disappeared. new zealand has dominated the milk market. then things changed. we ran out of milk. prices have skyrocketed. and brussels is discovering the folly of its policy of stifling production. so we decide to increase the quotas by 2%. in the name of a "soft landing" since in 2015 quotas would be abolished and the market would be left to full liberalism, with the risk for our mountain farmers. so we destroyed some ranchers in the '80s and prevented young people from settling. the quota was not available for the installation licence. and now we are heading for more desertification of mountain farming areas if quotas are no longer there to provide the safety net.
in writing. it was important that parliament give its opinion on the broad guidelines for the future health check-up. the pse group has won some important victories, such as the criticism of the decoupling of aid (livestock and small crops), the objectives of the cap in terms of food security, ecosystem preservation, territorial development, the redistributive effect of the degressive ceiling, modulation, safety nets, the recognition of the role of inter-professional, the contribution of agriculture to climate change... however, i was keen to support several points, unlike the pse group: the partial decoupling of direct aid must be maintained for animal premiums, but it is necessary to ensure that not only intensive or large-scale farming (§26, §32) is taken into account, the references do not allow to value the respect by farmers of certain high environmental standards (§16) of the milk market, the redistributive effect of the decreasing ceiling, modulation, safety nets, the recognition of the role of inter-professional, the contribution of agriculture to climate change... however, i was keen to support several points, unlike the pse group: the partial decoupling of direct aid must be maintained for animal premiums, but care must be taken not to take into account only intensive or large-scale farming (§26, §32) the references do not allow to the historical value of the respect by farmers of high environmental standards (§16) of the land, the redistributive effect of the reduction of direct support of the reduction of the reduction of the aid (§6)
in writing. the commission's cap health check is not a check, it is a new unspoken reform. and another step towards the economic reorganization of the world which brussels europe has been working on for years, in the wake of washington. in the south and the united states, agriculture. in the north, services and industry, in fierce competition with emerging countries. european agriculture is being sacrificed and will soon be left to market forces alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. agriculture is not a sector like any other. because it is used to feed men, it contributes to national independence and sovereignty. because the quality of food determines public health. because farming determines land use, environmental protection, biodiversity, water management, the animation and settlement of rural areas - but it is still a productive act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and it is a pity that despite some good things, the rapporteur has not challenged this logic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls in particular for taking into account the specificities of regions in difficulty and sensitive sectors such as livestock farming and for further simplifying the rules for farmers. the aim is to improve the functioning of the common agricultural policy on the basis of the experience gained since 2003 and to adapt it to the new challenges and opportunities that will arise in 2007 in a european union of 27 member states. the report estimates that direct support will remain necessary after 2013, not only in the event of market problems, but also to compensate for the services farmers render to society and the very high environmental, health and animal welfare standards. finally, as regards risk management, the commission must be able to hear the message of parliament in this report in the light of the future reform of the cap. private or mixed insurance schemes should be developed as a matter of urgency with the support of public funding, ensuring that member states remain on an equal footing. the commission should be able to envisage the future introduction of a european reinsurance system for climate or environmental disasters and risk prevention measures should be financed under the first pillar (support for agricultural markets).
in writing. gender equality in rural areas needs more attention from the european union. the situation of women's rights and their place in rural life requires greater determination on the part of the member states and the commission. on the one hand, women suffer from a particularly unfavourable legal status when they work in the agricultural sector as a caring spouse. the european commission must break with this legal inequality, which deprives some european women of their access to social security, maternity and sick leave or pensions in the event of divorce. on the other hand, there is insufficient support for women's economic initiatives and entrepreneurship. the member states must, for example, financially support enterprises that diversify women's work and, more generally, support the development of infrastructure and new technologies in rural areas. finally, the commission must analyse rural development programmes more closely in the light of the situation of women. rural areas account for 56% of the population of the european union. because women can bring dynamism and creativity to the process, i fully support the proposals in mrs klass' report.
in writing. the issue of the status of women in rural areas has been addressed many times at the world conferences on women (1975, 1980, 1985 and 1995), on land reform and rural development (1979) and on population (1994), as well as by the european commission and parliament. but the texts may be accumulated, but the findings are always the same: an increase in the "masculinization" of the rural population and no improvement in the status of the assistant spouse on an agricultural holding. it is high time to develop strategies to curb the rural exodus of women, especially those with a university degree. to take account of the development of the main global trends, in particular the liberalisation of trade and finance and the privatisation of agriculture into a strictly regulated and quota-based commercial sector. times are changing, but not the attitudes and customs that have meant that the role of women in agriculture is far too often reduced to being co-farmers or unpaid workers on farms that are often family-run. does this report propose any changes to the statute? we will vote in favour.
in writing. i would like to congratulate csaba tabajdi on his excellent report and on all the research and synthesis work he has carried out perfectly. however, i would like to point out that i voted against paragraph 27:27. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information provided by the court of auditors in its annual accounts for the financial year 2012; in my view, biogas must be fed primarily from agricultural waste. there can be no question of developing gm seeds and pesticides in order to promote even more intensive agriculture. that would be bad for the environment, and it would negate all the benefits of agrofuels. as the title of the report indicates, we must first of all promote sustainable agriculture. i will be responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture on the draft directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources.
we have finished our work for this afternoon. this court is adjourned. it will resume at 3 p.m. with a solemn sitting to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mrs gomes on the quality of her work on a very sensitive and complex subject. we all know how deeply divided our member states were over the iraq conflict. we know that today our duty is to help build a secure, united, prosperous and democratic iraq. i would like to emphasize a major drama, largely overlooked by our governments. i am talking about the iraq conflict, which has left nearly 4.5 million people on the roads, the largest displacement in the middle east since 1948. concerted action is urgently needed at european level. my main concern is the immediate and long-term fate of the iraqis who have had to flee their country. some 2.3 million people have found refuge in neighbouring countries, mainly syria and jordan, but also in egypt, lebanon, turkey and the gulf states. by welcoming almost 2 million people, syria and jordan have made a very worthwhile effort. the role of the union and the international community is of course to enable all these refugees to return home eventually, but at this stage it is not possible for many of them to return. some of these particularly vulnerable refugees require transfer to a western country. according to unhcr, 6.6% of iraqis residing in syria, or 100,000 people, need to be resettled. i therefore call on my colleagues to support the amendment in favour of resettlement programmes which provide for the union to take in some of the most vulnerable refugees selected by the unhcr in 2008. in conclusion, let us not turn our backs on our values. we must fully respect the 1951 geneva convention and refuse any forced return to iraq.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for fernand braudel, history began in sumer, but today the long history of the christian minorities in iraq seems to be coming to an end. we, the nations of europe, cannot condone this great injustice by our inaction. these people welcomed islam with hospitality and together they built this country that was prosperous before it was ravaged by fanaticism and wars. today, these minorities have to resign themselves to running away. the future of iraq cannot be achieved without their presence and their skills. the future does not lie in partitioning the country, but in rebuilding the economy, in mutual recognition between different communities and cultures, and in the promotion of the rule of law. if the european union decides to intervene in iraq, it must always bear in mind, in the context of its project, the tragic reality of all these minority communities. their future must be the basis of its intervention, and the reality of mutual respect between the communities the criterion for allocating its aid. this action will then be the honor of our nations.
the chairman of the council. - as you are aware, the situation in chad has deteriorated in recent weeks. in early february, chadian rebels approached and captured most of the capital city of n'djamena, but after a few days they retreated or were driven eastward to the chad-sudan border. the attacks by rebel groups on the chadian government in early february not only ignited a simmering internal crisis, but also revealed its regional dimension. the rebels came from darfur with the support of the sudanese side. the situation in chad must therefore be considered from two interrelated perspectives: domestic and regional. in february, the council of the european union condemned the rebel attacks on the chadian government, calling for a political dialogue between the government, the opposition and the rebels, and stressing the need for a political dialogue between the chadian and sudanese governments. we believe that pressure should be increased on the governments of chad and sudan to fulfil the commitments they have made in the various agreements. the council called on both governments to immediately cease supporting and supplying armed groups and to improve relations between them. as regards the internal political situation in chad, a political solution to the conflict is the only way to peace and stability in that country. the inclusive political process indicated by the agreement between the ruling party of chad and the parties of the legal opposition in august 2007 should continue. in this regard, the union supports the efforts of the african union to find a peaceful solution to the disputes. the european union therefore joins the calls of both the african union and the united nations, which have very clearly condemned the rebel attacks. we share their concern about the danger of further escalation of the conflict. we are also concerned about the deteriorating humanitarian situation. the growing hostilities have deepened the humanitarian tragedy and increased the already high number of refugees and displaced persons. more than 160 people were killed and about a thousand were wounded. tens of thousands of refugees have fled to neighboring cameroon and nigeria. the humanitarian situation is very poor, with approximately 250 000 refugees from the darfur region of sudan also present in eastern chad, and calls for the full deployment of the european union mission eufor chad-central african republic as soon as possible. the security situation in the capital n'djamena and in most of the country, except the east, is currently calming down and normalizing following the recent clashes. however, the state of emergency declared on 15 february was extended for 15 days until the middle of this month. in this context, the eu expresses concern at the restrictions on civil liberties and media freedom in chad. activities related to the deployment of eufor shall continue after the suspension. the operation's commander, general nash, has decided to suspend operations following the rebel attacks, allowing an assessment of the new political and security situation. the guidance then continued without any consequences for the entire timeframe of the operation. it is planned to reach initial operating capacity by mid-march. the worrying situation in the region has made the importance of the mandate of eufor and the united nations mission all the more apparent. the deployment of eufor demonstrates the union's commitment to contribute to the stabilisation of the region. to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, two things are needed: we need the security provided by military units, and this is another aspect, and the willingness of the parties to dialogue and negotiate is important.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on my return from my mission to chad from 20 to 22 january 2008, i had already indicated that chad should be a priority for the european union. the attempted coup d'état by armed rebel movements in early february and the events that followed have further strengthened my conviction. i remain convinced that the lasting stability of chad depends on political openness to all its internal components. this is the work that the european commission undertook last year in facilitating and supporting the political dialogue which led - as you know - to the inter-chad agreement of 13 august 2007. i am convinced that only such a dialogue can, in fact, create the political perspective needed to ensure the stability of the country and the consolidation of democracy. it will have to lead to the completion of a reliable census and a review of the electoral framework leading to free and transparent parliamentary elections in 2009. i have strongly conveyed this message to president déby; the process had begun with the monitoring committee. the recent events in n'djamena have put this process to the test when; although there was an attempted coup d'état against the government, the extrajudicial arrest of several opposition leaders, as well as members of civil society and the media, is completely regrettable and unacceptable. as a facilitator and observer of the implementation of the inter-tchadian political agreement of 13 august, i was the first to express my concern publicly and i spoke directly to president deby about it during my last mission to chad on 27 february. on the occasion of this mission, i urged president deby and the political representatives of the presidential majority and the democratic opposition, that is to say all the politicians responsible in chad, to revive the dynamic of political dialogue by restoring confidence between the parties. this requires the commitment of all the political actors, including, of course, president déby, who has confirmed to me his intention to continue to be the guarantor of the implementation of this political agreement. i have been assured that the state of emergency declared in mid-february will end within the constitutionally mandated deadline of mid-march. at the same time, we pleaded and obtained from president deby the release of mr lol mahamat choua, chairman of the coordination of political parties for the defence of the constitution. bernard kouchner and i asked to meet him. we met him personally, and he was released the next day. i am also particularly pleased to learn that mr ngarlejy yorongar is in strasbourg these days and has been able to meet some of you, but i am of course still concerned about the fate of ibn omar mahamat saleh, who is still missing. that is why we asked and obtained from president deby the creation of an enlarged committee of inquiry with a strong international presence, including the european union, the organisation de la francophonie and the african union. this commission is to shed light on the arrests and disappearances. this will be an important first step in restoring confidence and normalizing the situation in chad. the same message was also sent to members of the opposition. the solution is to ensure that the government, the presidential majority and the opposition are jointly responsible. i shall conclude with a brief reference to the regional context: the attempted coup in chad is, to a large extent, the direct consequence of the deterioration of chad-sudan relations. it is extremely difficult not to see the influence of the khartoum authorities in this coup attempt. it is therefore imperative to put an end to the cross-contamination of the situations in darfur and chad. i hope that the regional initiatives for mediation between chad and sudan, which the heads of state of the region and president wade in particular are putting in place, will be welcomed. the present situation demonstrates the urgent need for the rapid deployment of both the european military force and the civilian component, if that were still necessary. minurcat, in accordance with resolution 1778 (2007). the rationale for this military operation is more than ever being verified. hundreds of thousands of civilians are forced to live in extremely vulnerable conditions in eastern chad and are eagerly awaiting the deployment of eufor. the commission will continue to mobilise all the political instruments of cooperation and humanitarian assistance to respond to the situation in chad. i am waiting to see what the mediation led by president wade will have produced to determine or to define, in any case, when i will return, not only to chad but also to khartoum. we must do our utmost to mediate and bring n'djamena and khartoum closer together, because it is clear that we are feeling the extremely close interaction of the complete deterioration of relations between chad and sudan.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as our colleague mr burke has just said, military honours were paid to the body of sergeant polin in bayonne, who died in sudan while carrying out the beautiful and very difficult mission entrusted to eufor in chad and the central african republic. let me join in the tribute paid to his memory by his comrades in arms in the presence of the highest national and european authorities, in the first place our high representative, javier solana, and our colleague, karl von wogau. for years our parliament has been calling for the european union to take up its share of responsibility in protecting the people who are victims of the fighting that continues to bleed in darfur and the surrounding regions. he therefore deplored the obstacles accumulated at political level to prevent the deployment of an international force to this end. he had therefore also welcomed the adoption - as you recalled, commissioner - of un security council resolution 1778, which provided for the deployment in chad and the car of a military operation in support of the un mission, minurcat, and a chadian police force. it is unnecessary to stress the difficulties encountered in implementing this force, whose deployment, scheduled for november 2007, could only begin at the end of january and will not be completed, according to the current programming, until next may. you said, mr president-in-office of the council, that the rebels' action in n'djamena had delayed the mission, but it is also necessary to stress the lack of resources available to the european union to deal with this type of mission, particularly in terms of logistics and helicopters. i welcome the announcement yesterday that russia will provide the european union with the necessary means to support ground troops in such a field. could you, mr president-in-office of the council, please give us - if you have any - some further information on this news?
for the greens/efa group mr president, the situation of human rights and the civilian population in chad remains very difficult and no initiative for political dialogue has any chance of succeeding unless we first have a clear answer on the fate of the opponents arrested on 3 february and unless the abuses that are still taking place, at this very moment, against all those whom idriss déby brutally considers to be opponents to be eliminated are brought to an end. that is why you, commissioner, must absolutely maintain the pressure you have exerted, so that idriss déby can tell us where ibn mahamat saleh is and what has become of him, and that he can release him if he is still alive. i take this opportunity to greet and support his son, who is here in the gallery, and mr yorongar, who has come to speak about the situation and the future of his country. commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the chadian diaspora, which is also very present in strasbourg, is listening to you very attentively today and is counting on you to facilitate an inclusive dialogue which does not exclude any of the chadian political actors. it is on these conditions that a prospect of peace and democratisation is possible, involving all the parties concerned, and it is also on these conditions that eufor will be able to operate under optimum conditions, which will remove it from the ambiguity and the confusion into which recent events have plunged it. the role of the european union must be clearly clarified in relation to that of france in the region, which has clearly allowed the regime of idriss déby to remain in power, even if, at the moment, the speech of the president of the republic is more open and calls for a change in past policies. you must, commissioner, mr president, use your considerable means of pressure to obtain real appeasement and the protection of all the democrats of chad and, in this way, make greater demands on president deby, who is trying, for the moment, above all to save time and appearances.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
in writing. a few remarks on the gill report, which is really about the organisation of research programmes to improve the autonomy of older people through information and communication technologies. the first is the substance: the added value of the european union in a project initiated, as they are entitled to do, by some member states, is not clearly seen, except for the bureaucratization of the process and the creation of a new community body. the union's financial surplus of eur 150 million over several years, minus the operating costs of the aforementioned body, does not appear to be a decisive advantage. secondly, as regards the form: increasingly, this house is presenting legislative reports in the form of a compromise between parliament and the council, which is supposed to allow rapid adoption of dossiers at first reading. but the legislator is now held hostage by a handful of expert negotiators. the extension of this practice seems to me dangerous for democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report proposing the participation of the european union in the research and development programme on home-based assistance (hsa) undertaken jointly by several member states and third countries. the ageing population is a challenge for european society and the economy. the average life expectancy is now 80 years and the number of people aged 65 to 80 will increase by around 40% between 2010 and 2030. innovative solutions are emerging to help with the memory, vision, hearing, mobility, and autonomy impairments that occur more frequently with age. the european union's participation in this programme is based on the seventh framework programme of the european commission for research and development. the projects will be co-financed by the european union to the tune of eur 150 million and will have a leverage effect of at least eur 600 million between 2008 and 2013. the countries participating in the aad programme should also contribute to its financing by allocating funds equal to or greater than the aad programme, which would mean that each country would devote at least 20% of the funds allocated to national research on this topic.
in writing. brussels' europe means more taxes and more constraints! the harmonization of excise duties and vat by fixing compulsory minimum rates of taxation, as it has been for the past 15 years, has proved ineffective, totally useless and sometimes harmful. it is worth recalling that this prevents member states from reducing vat on, for example, catering, which is certainly the activity for which a possible distortion of cross-border competition is least credible and which could create thousands of jobs! or that the new member states are forced to raise their taxes to an extent that is shocking to their citizens in order to comply with community regulations, even though other european regulations require them to control inflation! today we are being asked to raise the tax on diesel fuel to the same level as that on unleaded petrol, both under the pretext of protecting the environment and of combating 'tax tourism', that is to say the use of competition by citizens for their own benefit! this is all the more scandalous because motorists in france, for example, have been encouraged to buy diesel cars in order to be able to beat them better now.
in writing. the aim of the commission's proposal was to establish measures to reduce co2 emissions under the ambitions set out in the energy-climate package. however, neither the commission proposal nor the report adopted today responds to the urgent need to develop a fuel which is effective in combating co2 emissions. the disparity of the proposed adjustments and their dilution over time and the geographical area of the european union render the proposed measures ineffective. to change the air in a changing era, we should be more imaginative in terms of the environment by voting for measures that effectively combat climate drift. the commission's proposed taxation amendment and ms schmidt's report do not encourage research into or substitution by a new fuel with lower co2 emissions. today i would like to express my clear opposition to the logic of this report by refusing to vote for this compromise which distorts the stated objective.
in writing. the delegation of the movement for france in the european parliament has been active since the beginning of the us intervention in iraq. the experience of our country, its proximity to the iraqi people, made us foresee the human, military and moral disaster that this intervention would engender. the damage has been done and it is up to the member states, individually or collectively, to save and restore what can be saved. before the american invasion, iraq was the only muslim country with a large and thriving christian community, which existed in iraq even before islam. one of the most dramatic consequences of the american intervention is the exodus of its population, driven by terror and intimidation. this is a disaster for iraq and its future. more generally, the rapid absorption of the religious diversity of the middle east is a human and economic impoverishment that threatens the stability and prosperity of the entire region. for fernand braudel, history began in sumer, but today the long history of the christian minorities in iraq seems to be ending. we, the nations of europe, cannot condone this great injustice by our inaction. these people welcomed islam with their hospitality and together they built this country which was prosperous before it was ravaged by fanaticism and wars. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because there is an urgent need to adapt conditions of detention to take account of the specific needs of women. to date, prison conditions in many member states remain very poor and in no way can provide the specific support needed for women. the women prisoners have specificities that require special attention, especially with regard to access to health care. that is why i supported an amendment by the socialist group which calls for women in prison to have access to the same prevention campaigns for breast and cervical cancer screening. this type of early detection increases the chances of recovery. the lack of access to such care for women in prison can be a form of double punishment. women also continue to play a central role in the family unit. it is therefore appropriate to facilitate, as far as possible, alternative sentences to imprisonment for mothers if they do not constitute a threat to public policy.
in writing. although the european union has been integrating gender equality into its development cooperation programmes for many years, progress in this area is still too limited. the european commission must therefore set itself quantified and timed objectives to make development the main factor in improving women's living conditions. to this end, the european union should make clear in the partnerships it leads three priorities: fundamental freedoms, the place in the city and access to care for women. on the one hand, the commission must be more vigilant than ever in the face of attacks on the physical integrity and dignity of women (torture, traditional mutilation, forced marriages). on the other hand, cooperation must lead to the recognition of women's place in society, from access to knowledge to financial autonomy. finally, commitments should be made by 2010 to make hiv prevention and treatment a reality in developing countries. european development policy will be a bitter failure if it does not bring about real changes in the situation of women.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is the tragedy that has occurred in armenia following the presidential elections of 19 february 2008 an admission of europe's inability to support the fragile and small democracies of the south caucasus on their path to democracy? after the crisis in georgia, armenia is plunging into a major political crisis. while the attention was focused on the election campaign, the international community failed to promote the dialogue necessary to avoid the clashes of 1 march. after eleven days of contesting the election results by an opposition led by former head of state ter petrossian, the police tried to disperse the protesters. the situation escalated, resulting in eight deaths, many injuries and the imposition of a state of emergency and restrictions on freedom of information, freedom of assembly and restrictions on political parties. since then, 400 people have been arrested. the concern is evident among a population that fears the implementation of a repressive policy. today, it is our duty to echo this to all parties to the armenian political conflict. but what method can be suggested to bring everyone to their senses and to the table of discussion at a time when tensions are so high? that is the whole issue we are facing. first of all, we must restore the confidence of the armenians in their young democracy. before trust can be established, an investigation into the course of events is essential, as is the release of prisoners. secondly, with the international community, our special representative for the south caucasus, our partners in the council of europe and the osce, we must impose a timetable on our armenian friends so that they can come together at the negotiating table and we must bring all the parties to the conflict, the authorities as well as the opposition, back to the negotiating table. the rules of democracy require dialogue and non-violence, and we must be the facilitators. if i may, mr president, i would like to make an oral amendment. i do not know how to proceed: we made a mistake in the resolution. in recital h, we mentioned the territory of nagorno-karabakh when we wanted to mention the status of nagorno-karabakh. so, colleagues, it seems that we are in agreement with this oral amendment.
mr president, i am sorry, i may be wrong, but i thought that when votes were taken on questions of individuals they should be secret, which was not the case. but this may not be the case with the members of the commission. i don't know, man. in any case, it was a public vote, since the lamps of the members were lit differently depending on whether they voted for, against or abstained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, i am pleased that we have included a debate on lebanon on our agenda this afternoon. the crisis that has been going on for several months in this country is of course more than just a presidential election or the formation of a government. we know that the very foundations of the political system are at stake, based on subtle balances between the different confessions in the lebanese mosaic. the role of lebanon in the regional context is also at stake. does it want to be an aircraft carrier for the us and its allies in the region or an outpost for a supposed shiite crescent? in reality, for me, lebanon does not have to choose between the american axis and the syrian-iranian axis. the only viable camp for lebanon is the lebanon camp itself. the european union certainly has no business interfering in lebanon's internal affairs. it doesn't have to support one coalition over another. what the european union can do is to act as a mediator, to help the lebanese parties to regain a minimum of mutual trust before any agreement is reached, and to offer its good offices in order to initiate a dynamic of understanding and compromise. we are right to support the arab league's plan based on a triple consensus: a president, a government of national unity, and a reform of the electoral law guaranteeing fair representation of the lebanese society. this is the essential condition for the political deconfessionalisation envisaged by the ta'if agreements, which is the wish of a growing majority of lebanese, to finally come to fruition. we must support any initiative in this direction and in this respect the proposal by nabih berri, president of the lebanese parliament, to relaunch the national dialogue is a positive signal. as we have done for years, we must continue to support a lebanon that sees itself as sovereign, united and finally at peace with itself.
the chairman of the council. - i have listened very carefully to the views of the honourable members in today's debate and, to begin with, there is considerable agreement on both sides of the house and the council that it is high time that the situation in lebanon was moved out of the impasse. and the council is working on it. in many ways. some of you, including mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, mrs napoletano, have stressed that sending money and financial resources to lebanon is not enough. and that electing a new president, by itself, won't be enough. that is true, but the european union is doing much more in and with regard to lebanon. i would like to thank mr carnero gonzález, who, like me, in his opening speech, highlighted the european union's great commitment to military and security, which has already caused casualties. but that's not enough. the political role of the european union is also needed, and the council presidency agrees with this. but at this stage we must not forget that there is an arab league plan on the table, supported by the european union, that there are efforts being made by mr mousse, the secretary-general, which must be supported and which are supported by the european union. and we'll keep doing that. we will adjust our approach to lebanon in the light of developments. i also said that electing a president won't solve all the problems. it will also require the formation of a new government, it will require electoral reform, but we will continue to work for all of these. the fact is that the solution of the political crisis will and would also affect the economic situation in the country. and the council and the european union remain committed to supporting lebanon in these efforts. it is a country with enormous potential, and we want to help it, and we are determined to help it in any way we can, because we want lebanon to achieve political stability and its economic prosperity as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the members for a very important and responsible debate. i shall report its contents to my colleague, benita ferrero-waldner. it seems to me that we – that is, parliament, council and commission – share the basic view that we will certainly continue to support our long-standing partner, lebanon, in this very critical phase. given the complexity of the challenges lebanon currently faces, it is indeed essential that, as european institutions, we coordinate our efforts as much as possible and take full advantage of our capabilities. the european parliament has already made valuable contributions to our cooperation with lebanon in the past. a good example is the european election observation mission at the 2005 parliamentary elections. indeed one of the key tasks ahead is to help lebanese democracy to become more robust to face challenges like the present crisis. electoral reform is a crucial element in every initiative that is expected to make a lasting impact on lebanon’s political system. in this context, the european parliament, with its particular expertise and know-how, can – and, i trust, will – play a key role. it is also true that the conflicts in the region are interlinked, as was underlined by several speakers. as you know, lebanon and israel have never reached a peace agreement. lebanon hosts 400 000 palestinian refugees partly because israel and the palestinians have not yet reached a peace deal. part of the hizbollah’s raison d’être is the ongoing occupation by israel of the shebaa farms. therefore, from the point of view of the european union, a sustained and lasting solution can only be achieved through a comprehensive approach to the peace process. solving one track of the peace process will help in other areas, but no one track can be secure without progress on others. certainly, reaching an agreement between israel and syria could help to diffuse tensions in lebanon, and therefore we have thrown our full support behind the current political process. we are hopeful that progress can be extended to other tracks in due course.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in strasbourg.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: - the report on the 2007 follow-up report on croatia, by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (2007/2267 (ini)) (a6-0048/2008); and - the report on the 2007 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, by erik meijer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (2007/2268 (ini)) (a6-0059/2008).
the fact that i am chairing without a tie has nothing to do, of course, with the subject on the agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the work of my colleague, hannes swoboda, and the quality of his report, which in a balanced and fair way highlights the progress made, particularly with the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, and the efforts still to be made, such as the necessary strengthening of the judicial system. we welcome the fact that the republic of croatia has abandoned the ecological protection zone for fisheries in the adriatic, a source of tension within the european union, which is a very symbolic gesture, and thus shows croatia's commitment to membership of the european union. there is no love, there is only proof of love, jean cocteau reminded us. by this gesture, croatia has applied this maxim to us. we, too, must maintain the objective of june 2009 for the signing of the accession treaty, a symbolic date, an ambitious objective. there is no politics without symbolism. let us therefore affirm, let us send out this strong signal, let us show the croatian people, croatia, our eagerness to welcome it into the european family, because beyond croatia it is a strong symbol of stability in the balkans, of peace. let us therefore redouble our efforts to achieve this goal. let us encourage the commission and croatia to do so.
madam president, the energy and climate package marks the advent of a new blackmail, the blackmail of carbon. after announcing on 4 april 2008 that it would cut 575 jobs at gandrange in moselle, arcelor-mittal agreed to maintain 124 jobs at the site, provided that it was granted co2 emission certificates. and to pass the pill of job cuts in lorraine, arcelor-mittal is leaving open the hypothetical possibility of a pilot project for co2 capture, even though this process has not yet been validated for its energy neutrality. in fact, gandrange in the moselle region is becoming the trojan horse of the energy-intensive industries, of which mr sarkozy, the president, is the great defender in the european council. i am very glad that the commissioner is here, because i really want us to reject a new kind of blackmail, this carbon blackmail. the energy and climate package must be in line with the european legislative process if it is to be effective. the european parliament must ask the council to respect the rules we have set ourselves and not to give in to the sirens of the industrialists in search of free quotas. and, in relation to industry and large enterprises, the co-legislator we are must also ensure fair access to quotas for european smes and smes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days in france, at saint-nazaire, greek workers employed by a german company subcontracting to another shipbuilding company have once again been left without pay. the case law of the european court of justice has helped to reaffirm the social rights of posted workers in the union. but what good are these rights if europe does not have the legislation to overcome the shortcomings of subcontractors? these are no longer isolated cases. throughout the european union, contractors are increasingly using cascade subcontractors from other member states, and there are more and more cases of unpaid posted workers. three men, three greek workers, finally got their pay, but only after three weeks of hunger strike. we cannot make grand speeches about europe and do nothing. it is essential to devise as soon as possible the legal framework necessary to ensure that the contractors are held liable in the event of subcontractors' failure to comply.
i have received, pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs riitta myller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term review of the sixth community action programme on the environment (2007/2204 (ini)) (a6-0074/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on support for smes carrying out research and development activities (com ((2007) 0514 c6-0281/2007 2007/0188 cod)) (a6-0064/2008).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, research efforts in the steel sector are necessary to safeguard the european steel industry and, therefore, the european economy. my approach, on the other hand, is more reserved for the coal sector. james hansen, a climate scientist and research director at nasa's goddard institute for space studies, recently said that the scale of climate change has been underestimated, but that we have tools at our disposal, one of which is to shut down all coal-fired power plants by 2030. a gas-fired plant emits between 300 and 400 kilograms of co2 per megawatt hour, a new generation coal-fired plant 800 kilograms and a lignite-fired plant 1,000 kilograms of co2. how consistent is the european union if, on the one hand, it develops an ambitious plan to combat and adapt to climate change and, on the other, it supports coal as a clean energy source? humanity has moved from the age of wood to the age of coal and then to the age of oil. today parliament has the choice of supporting a return to the coal age or being consistent with the climate package and therefore not promoting coal as a clean energy source. for this reason my group intends to support some of the amendments tabled by the greens. in conclusion, let me quote a beautiful phrase by alphonse carr: "the lover is almost always a man who, having found a burning coal, puts it in his pocket, thinking it is a diamond". love is indeed passion. for energy, we prefer reason.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the report i am presenting to you follows up the request we made, which mrs trüpel, who is here, and whom i welcome, and myself, in the culture 2007 report three years ago, to see greater recognition given to the cultural industries, which, i remind you, with 3.1% of the european union's working population and 2.6% of gdp, today weigh more than the automotive industry in the european union. i have therefore drawn up this report in the spirit of maximum consultation with all the players in the sector. i would like to thank the experts and professionals in the sector, the internet users' and consumers' associations and, finally, my colleagues in the committee on culture for all the discussions we have had on these crucial issues. the report starts from the assumption that culture and the economy have become inseparable. the economy needs culture and culture needs the economy. in this context, it is urgent to give culture back its rightful place on the lisbon agenda. i am therefore making a number of proposals in this report. the first would be to create a task force to explore the relationship between culture, creativity and innovation in the context of community policies. secondly, it is essential to give more space in our community financing to the cultural industries. in this report, i advocate, at member state level, private/public funding methods, as well as the promotion of a regulatory and fiscal framework favourable to cultural industries and more specifically the application of tax credits and reduced vat rates to all cultural products, including online works. i would also like to invite the commission to consider the possibility of setting up a programme similar to the media programme for all cultural industries. thirdly, this report proposes that culture be better integrated into the external policies of the european union because - and i stress this - what makes europe rich is first of all its culture, or rather, i was going to say, the diversity of its culture. i therefore also call on the commission and the member states to increase the amount of aid for translation. finally, if i may, mr president, i would like to return to the question of copyright, which has been the subject of many amendments in this report. on this subject i strongly oppose the position of certain member states whose repressive measures are dictated by industries which have not been able to change their economic model in the face of the requirements of the information society. cutting off internet access is a disproportionate measure in relation to the objectives. this is a powerful sanction, which could have serious repercussions in a society where access to the internet is an imperative right for social inclusion. i think we must distinguish between mass piracy and consumers who are not acting for commercial purposes. rather than criminalising consumers, we need to develop new economic models that strike a balance between access to cultural activities and content, cultural diversity and genuine remuneration for rights holders. it seems to me that only then will europe's culture truly enter the 21st century.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i think we must not be mistaken about the objective. despite what some subjective studies would have us believe, it is not the 13% of europeans who illegally download cultural content that threatens our culture, but it seems to me that it is the concentration of our culture in the hands of a few large groups that is damaging our diversity and, by the same token, the richness of our cultural heritage. i will take only one example, the one of the disc. today, 95 percent of what is broadcast comes from the four major discs. i believe it is important to ensure that consumers have a real choice and it is necessary to ensure content pluralism in a highly concentrated market where the key players in innovation and creativity are the small and not the big. and from this point of view, mr commissioner, you spoke of smes, advocating a study, which i think is very interesting. the commission's approval of the sony/bmg merger is in total contradiction to the european policy of supporting smes in the music sector, which create more jobs than the majors and account for 99% of market players and 80% of innovation in this sector. i therefore believe that there is an urgent need to support diversity in the cultural sector, which is a real engine of growth and a real means of personal fulfilment. in conclusion, i would say that it is the diversity of culture that makes it rich, not the other way around.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate vasco graça moura on the quality of his report, which reflects in every respect his knowledge and his high level of expertise in this field. this report reaffirms the place of culture in the construction of europe and the need to preserve and promote its diversity. it stressed the essential role it plays in achieving the lisbon objectives and in the union's external relations. it rightly calls for greater action in areas such as literary translation, the promotion of european languages, artistic education and cultural industries, but also in the preservation and enhancement of heritage. in this regard, existing cultural programmes should be promoted and new initiatives such as the creation of a european heritage label should be supported, which will help to develop a common identity while promoting cultural tourism. the report also highlights the opportunities offered by digital technologies in terms of access to, promotion and dissemination of culture, while underlining the need to protect intellectual property rights. in this context, support should be given to the implementation of concrete projects, such as the european digital library, which provides for the digitisation of heritage, its access and its preservation for future generations.
the rapporteur. - madam president, nothing surprises me, and in particular nothing in the commissioner's communication. commissioner, thank you for this very detailed report. i would simply like to point out that the stated objective of the proposal for a council regulation is to simplify and improve the procedures for managing fishing authorizations. the aim was to establish general provisions applicable to all applications for authorization, as you have said, commissioner. a single procedure for the management of all fishing authorisations has been proposed. the division of responsibilities between the commission and the member states is defined. new eligibility criteria, penalties for infringements and information provisions are also proposed. compliance with international obligations under the various agreements is reinforced by introducing measures requiring member states to prohibit a vessel from fishing if it has been found to be involved in a serious infringement or has been included on a list of participation in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities. mrs catherine stihler was appointed rapporteur for this report but, as her opinion was not followed by the majority of the members of the committee on fisheries on two points which she considered essential, she preferred to withdraw her name from the report. it is therefore my duty to present this draft to you as chairman of the committee. but i would like to welcome his work in passing and i will leave it to him, representing his amendments, to give us the reasons for his decision. on its report, which is now mine, the committee on fisheries has proposed, in the context of the consultation procedure, several amendments, the full list of which you have given - not the list but the numbers, commissioner - to the proposal for a council regulation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment. i shall present only the main ones. firstly, the regulation should not apply to the overseas territories of the member states of the european union. secondly, a serious infringement should only be considered to have been committed if it has been confirmed following prosecution in accordance with the applicable national law. thirdly, the iuu list is the list of fishing vessels identified by the regional fisheries organisations or by the commission, pursuant to the council regulation establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eradicate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is such an important task, commissioner, and to which you have personally committed yourself. fourth, the commission should forward applications to the authority empowered to issue authorisations only after giving the member states the opportunity to submit their comments. fifthly, the commission may refuse to act on requests only where it has knowledge, through duly established facts, that a member state has not complied with obligations under a particular agreement. sixthly, community fishing vessels for which an authorization has been issued must communicate to their national competent authority information on catches and fishing effort at a frequency appropriate to the agreement and the fisheries concerned. this obligation shall be compatible with those contained in the regulation on the electronic flight recorder. i leave it to my colleagues to elaborate, because some of them are the authors of some of the amendments.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i do not think it will take me that long to say that this debate has been useful and that, in the end, the fact that some of our colleagues tabled amendments in relation to the very unanimous vote has allowed it. you have understood, commissioner, that there are two problems with this case. you have partly answered the first concern expressed, which is the maintenance of relative stability. this is the subject of amendments nos 20 to 24 tabled by our colleagues. the second concern is that expressed by catherine stihler, namely that, on the occasion of this revision of the regulation, there may be unreasonable exploitation of fishery resources, and in particular of fishery resources of third countries. some of my colleagues here echoed that and that is why they signed. i think i can say in this respect that nothing in the text of the report which will be voted on tomorrow can give rise to such concern, but it will be for our colleagues to decide tomorrow since, madam president, i think you are going to announce that this report will be voted on tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group madam president, 2009 is the year of all the novelties, therefore all the uncertainties, therefore all the dangers. it is a challenge that requires the full talent of our rapporteur, the former chairman of the committee on budgets. a new treaty which will double the scope for co-decision in our parliament. you can imagine the effort that will have to be made to achieve this, particularly in budgetary terms. a new status for members. it is not yet known which countries will allow their future elected representatives to switch to this new system, or which representatives will want to do so themselves. an election campaign, a new ethics, especially at the level of the assistants. i have been asking the bureau for this for almost ten years, and i am glad to see that this matter is finally mature. it is quite simple, however, since we all know the package that would not cost the taxpayer a cent: it is simply a matter of allowing assistants to have community status, for those who work here in brussels, and paying agents directly under the parliament, for those who work in constituencies. all this on a constant budget because honesty doesn't cost a cent, just a little bit of political effort. i also welcome new working methods, particularly in the building sector, because, like many colleagues, i am always surprised, after a call for tenders, to find that the prices of works are surprisingly high when they are carried out by the european institutions. and if we're really looking for savings, maybe we don't need to translate all of what i just said into maltese, latvian or hungarian, because all of this will only be read in eight months per person and that will save 17 million euros a year.
madam president, in mr lewandowski's very comprehensive report i have dealt particularly with parliament's budget in this election year, which has implications for the communication policy of our institution. better communication of europe to citizens is one of parliament's priorities for 2009. in order to make them feel more involved in the next elections and to ensure the highest possible turnout, it is important that meps are closely involved in a decentralised information campaign in the member states. we also want the local media to be well integrated into this campaign as they play a vital role as information carriers. the communication budget of parliament and the actions planned for 2009 will therefore have to be of interest to and directly affect european citizens who too often feel a great distance from the european institutions. it should be noted that these actions generally follow on from those undertaken and financed as from 2008. we hope that the new visitor centre and web tv will soon be operational to provide better information on parliament's activities and to strengthen the relationship between citizens and the european union.
in writing. my first words will be to welcome the excellent work of my polish colleague janusz lewandowski on the 2009 budgetary guidelines of the other institutions , namely the european parliament but also the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. this document outlines the major challenges that will be on the agenda of parliament in 2009, notably the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. every effort must be made to ensure that the increased responsibilities of parliament following the ratification of the lisbon treaty are taken into account in the budget. i wonder, however, whether, before the budgetary procedures, an audit of the human resources allocated to european parliamentary activities should not be carried out. the political responsibilities of the european parliament are becoming increasingly important and it is essential that members are able to work with complete independence. it is clear that the resources currently allocated are no longer commensurate with the broad political responsibilities which the european parliament must and will have to assume in the future in order to represent the european citizens properly.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, inge grässle, for her important work on these reports, which enrich the draft financial regulations of the executive agencies. at a time when the european parliament is going to see its prerogatives greatly strengthened under the lisbon treaty, i think it is particularly important to recall the powers of our institution, of course as a co-decision-maker on the budget. this parliament, which is elected by direct universal suffrage by the citizens of the union, must be able to control even better and more closely the proper use of community funds, this time by the executive agencies. in this connection, i should like to emphasize very briefly four points in this report which i consider essential if our institution is to be able to play its proper role and to make it possible to give our institutions the greatest possible clarity in their approach to citizens. firstly, i too would like to stress the need for better control of the use of the assigned revenue. it is important that the director of the agency concerned informs us of all transfers for securities that exceed the 10% threshold. secondly, it is also important to stress the importance of the figures relating to the staffing of the agencies, whether temporary, contractual, seconded national experts, etc., as our colleague has just mentioned, so that the budgetary authority can have a clear picture of the evolution of the human resources budget of the agencies. thirdly, i think it is only natural to ask, in accordance with the recommendations of the european court of auditors, that a summary of the development of the agencies' budgets be sent to the european parliament every year. finally, fourthly, the provisions of the report concerning the harmonization of the time limits for the discharge procedure must also enable parliament to exercise effective control over the proper implementation of the budget.
madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague inge grässle on the excellent work she has done and, of course, the commission on this development of the agencies. i would like to stress the very important provisions on internal control of our agencies and suggest, following on from what my colleague said a moment ago, that we could go towards consolidation, a kind of sub-consolidation in the union accounts of all agencies, so that third parties, and in particular members, can have a view of the evolution of the accounting base represented by all the agencies of the european union.
commissioner, i wanted to ask you a question. do you not feel a little lonely in the commission in general? what you're proposing is revolutionary. i am not talking about adaptation because i think that perhaps it is not the right solution to talk only about adaptation, given that today we have not yet quantified the cost of the consequences. what are the real consequences of climate change? today, we don't know. but we know how to calculate the cost of doing nothing. we also know why we have come to this point, it is simply the consequence of the policies we have put in place: agricultural policy, economic policy, etc. so obviously, today, we have to ask ourselves about the policies that we continue to put in place, for example when we ask for growth, what does growth mean? should we not ask ourselves what growth we should be aiming for today to avoid further climate change? what does it mean today to ask all our member states to grow? these are fundamental questions, mr dimas, that you propose we ask today, because this is not just a question of the commission or the temporary committee on climate change. it is a question that really concerns everyone today, and it concerns everyone. i don't like this way of, let's say, maybe clearing ourselves, maybe even deceiving our fellow citizens into thinking that we can adapt to these climate changes, and that in the end it might not be so bad because we're going to have the means to adapt. no, commissioner, that would be really deceiving our fellow citizens. since we are at the beginning of the proposals we are making, we are proposing an energy package and we know how much resistance there will be to achieve results that are in line with what we are asking for, which is a minimum minimum. so you can see that the road will be really very long to travel. i'm not saying what you're proposing is wrong. that's encouraging, but the revolution you're proposing, it's gonna take numbers to convince the other commissioners that we need to go in a different direction. we will have to convince the commissioner of agriculture that we must go in a different direction. we will have to convince mr louis michel that we must include climate change in the partnership agreements with africa. we need to reorient our african policies. in the context of the synergy we have created with african countries, this policy must be put in place. today or tomorrow, mr sarkozy will propose a union for the mediterranean. what did he propose to do about climate change? these countries are directly affected. i wish you good courage, commissioner, because your work will be very, very hard.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of climate change are here and will only get worse. we are now aware that, despite the implementation of an ambitious policy to combat climate change, we can only stabilise the phenomenon, and that we must therefore adapt to the consequences of climate change. adaptation to climate change will require ambitious financial efforts in many areas, the most important of which are, i believe, health, agriculture, water protection, housing and population migration. to this end, our policy of support for european research should be oriented as a priority to these areas. the fight against greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to climate change should become mandatory conditions for the allocation of european funding. it's a global problem, so we need global answers. the european union must do everything possible to ensure that an international policy on adaptation to climate change is developed. this policy must take account of the increasing frequency of natural disasters when drawing up both health and agricultural plans. this policy must apply first and foremost to the most vulnerable countries, that is to say, the poorest countries. just as we can hope to benefit from the fruits of our european research, so must the developing countries. technology transfers to third countries could be carried out without necessarily expecting any consideration. but adaptation to climate change is not just about increased use of technology. it also requires reflection on some practices inherited from previous generations. to be more specific, in my region, the south-west of france, the old farms are facing south. the reason for this is that the inhabitants had perceived that the orientation of the house protected them from the east and west winds, brought them light and especially the heat in winter, and the coolness in summer, thanks to the shade of the trees. they were bio-climate houses. today, these practices are neglected, yet they are very simple. let us take back these simple and sensible gestures, and let us also continue to encourage research on home improvement. it is in this sector that solutions must be found to avoid, for example, the use of energy for air conditioning in houses. the importance of energy efficiency in buildings should be emphasised. finally, we must move from raising awareness among citizens to education and training. it is right that we should pass on to the younger generations the relevant and thoughtful gestures and, of course, that our generation should learn them. i would like to end by praising the very good, very beautiful work of mr sacconi.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes to the climate package, because europe must send a strong signal to the world on the eve of the opening of the international negotiations in copenhagen. i should like to say here that i have received the most serious concerns from the employees and entrepreneurs in my constituency about the proposal to abolish the free allocation of co2 emission allowances, which would now be auctioned. the proposal would impose a double penalty system on these companies, paying both for the misuse of co2 emissions outside the quota and for any co2 emissions from the first tonne produced. european companies would then be subject to an unprecedented increase in their burdens. if this is an international standard, fine. so everyone is accommodated in the same class. but if this constraint is imposed on european companies alone, they are financially penalized and there is a serious risk of job relocations outside the union. but should we give up the idea of charging for co2 emissions from the first tonne produced? i do not think so, since the end goal is commendable. but then europe should have a fair mechanism by taxing imports from countries which would not make the same environmental efforts as european companies. yes, let us create a carbon tax, because far from being a tool of frivolous protectionism, it is an instrument to ensure fair and undistorted competition in international trade, a fundamental objective of the european union and the wto. i would like to welcome the various proposals from the commission. it is positive that as many economic sectors as possible are included in the mechanisms, ets or otherwise, to combat climate change. i note in particular that the transport sector, which is often the target of criticism, is about to contribute to the building and i welcome its contribution. in conclusion, i hope that we will be able to reach an agreement quickly, that is to say before the end of the year, and that this 'climate' package can be implemented quickly.
mr president, well, we are supposed to stay cool when following a debate, but this debate has got out of hand and it has literally gone with the wind, and with it has gone honesty and rationalism. we are supposed to be honest, but painting a gloomy picture has always been politically very good. it has always paid off. but we are supposed to be serious and we have to look at the figures and remain rational and honest. people can live in helsinki, with its average annual temperature of 6°c, or they can live in dakar in 30°c. two thousand years ago, julius caesar was walking on the rhine because it was frozen over. one thousand years ago, the vikings were in greenland – that is why it is called greenland. therefore, temperature is not an end in itself, but the prosperity of people is an end in itself and that is what we forget. why do we have emissions? that is the result of prosperity, and two thirds of people in the world still live in poverty. the human family is arranged as in a staircase: we, the privileged ones, are at the top, and there are four billion people below us who, literally, want to come into the daylight, because two billion people do not even have electricity. so what is our answer? our answer is to improve our technology. for that we need money and we need our economy to grow. we cannot have money if we are wasting and damaging our economy by applying measures that are counterproductive and very costly. the commissioner did not even mention the key word ‘nuclear’ in his opening remarks. if we are not honest in this debate, then we are not serious leaders. to sum up, we are a little bit like the man whose roof is leaking, but instead of fixing it he starts to wallpaper his cellar. well, that is not how to build our future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr swoboda, this is ridiculous! everyone knows that we're not going to find that solution in a week. the dispute has been going on for years and a decision has to be made: macedonia is macedonia is macedonia. greece has to accept that and then we vote here. it will make no difference between today and next week, it will remain that macedonia is called macedonia. (applause from the centre)
in writing i voted in favour of the report by my italian colleague luciana sbarbati in the consultation procedure on the proposal for a council decision establishing a european migration network. the need to monitor migration flows dates back to the commission's first communication in 1994 and led to the experimental creation of the european migration network (emn) in 2003. in order to maintain this indispensable tool, it became necessary to set up a legal instrument. indeed, despite the enormous amount of information produced on many aspects of international migration, this data is not easily accessible. in addition, there is a lack of reliable, comparable and up-to-date information and analysis of the evolving legal and political situation of immigration and asylum at both national and eu level. i support the initiatives to extend this scheme to asylum and to provide for an extension of the mandate of this network.
in writing. the report before us is nothing more than a statement of the failure of the various european policies pursued and the european bodies created so far. what exactly is this? the aim is to create a further european structure responsible for collecting, exchanging and using up-to-date data on migratory trends. it seems that a central source of information is missing. but what about the activities of the dozens of other national, international or intergovernmental bodies, the european observatory on migration, the international organisation for migration, the fundamental rights agency, whose tasks include the collection of information on migration, eurostat, europol, the raxen network, cirefi ... would they be ineffective, outdated? if so, why do we spend more and more money on them each year? the rapporteur is rightly concerned about the risk of duplication of the european migration network with all the existing structures. it should be concerned above all about the dangerous drift of the european institutions which, instead of solving the problems of immigration, are only masking the sad reality by the limitless multiplication of the practice of comitology and the creation of bodies of all kinds.
in writing. cooperation between member states and exchange of information are certainly necessary when it comes to immigration policies. the schengen agreements, which abolish all internal border controls in the union, mean that decisions taken in a member state, particularly those concerning the legalisation of illegal immigrants, necessarily have consequences for and in neighbouring countries. if there is one area in which europe is prolific, it is in the creation of agencies, bodies or any other structures, with staff and budget, which can both justify the union's action and give the appearance of wanting to solve problems. obviously, it's not. this is particularly the case in the field of migration, where existing structures, whether governmental, non-governmental or intergovernmental, are juxtaposed to excess, with no clear results. research centres, professional associations, the european migration observatory, eurostat, europol, the agency for fundamental rights, the centre for the study and research of border crossing and immigration (cirefi)... the list is not exhaustive in this area. the report adds yet another: a european migration network, the first step before the creation of a new european observatory or agency. it is time to put a stop to this europe of hypocrisy and false appearances.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished german colleague and friend ingeborg grässle, drawn up in the context of the consultation procedure on the draft commission regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1653/2004 laying down the model financial regulation for executive agencies pursuant to council regulation (ec) no 58/2003 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of community programmes. i support the rapporteur's proposals to harmonise the time limits for the discharge procedure, to bring the text of the framework financial regulation for the executive agencies more closely into line with the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities, and to specify the data to be included in the establishment plan, both for temporary and contract staff and for seconded national experts, so that the budgetary authority can have a clear view of the evolution of the agency's budget. it is also legitimate to formalize the responsibility of the authorising officer, that is to say the director of an agency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague and friend ingeborg grässle, drawn up in the context of the consultation procedure on the draft commission regulation (ec, euratom) amending commission regulation (ec, euratom) no 2343/2002 on the framework financial regulation for the bodies referred to in article 185 of council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. i support the need to harmonise the time limits for the discharge procedure and to clarify that the community bodies which actually receive contributions from the budget referred to in article 185 (1) of the general financial regulation are all those community bodies which receive direct grants from the budget and all other community bodies which receive contributions from the budget. it is also important to specify the data to be included in the establishment plan, both for temporary and contract staff and for seconded national experts, in order to enable the budgetary authority to have a clear overview of the evolution of the agency's budget personnel and to improve and strengthen the accountability of the authorising officer.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mr reimer böge, on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation, in the general budget of the european union for 2008, of eur 3 106 882 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this decision recalls that on 12 september 2007 malta submitted an application to mobilise the fund in respect of 675 redundancies in the textile sector, in particular in respect of workers made redundant by vf (malta) ltd and bortex clothing ind. co ltd. the maltese authorities requested a contribution of eur 681 207 to cover part of the expenditure related to the support measures, estimated at around eur 1,36 million. furthermore, on 9 october 2007, portugal submitted an application to mobilise the fund in respect of 1546 redundancies in the automotive sector, and in particular in respect of workers made redundant by opel in azambuja, alcoa fujikura in seixal and johnson controls in portalegre. the portuguese authorities requested eur 2 425 675 to cover part of the expenditure related to the support measures, estimated at approximately eur 4,85 million.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my very good polish colleague janusz lewandowski on the 2009 budgetary guidelines for the other institutions , namely the european parliament but also the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. this document outlines the major challenges that will be on the agenda of parliament in 2009, notably the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. every effort must be made to ensure that the increased responsibilities of parliament following the ratification of the lisbon treaty are taken into account in the budget; measures to strengthen communication with citizens, in particular at the decentralised level and on the three projects of the visitor centre, the audiovisual centre and the web-tv project. finally, i wonder whether, before the budgetary procedures, an audit of the human resources allocated to european parliamentary activities should not be carried out. the political responsibilities of the european parliament are becoming increasingly important and it is essential that members are able to work with complete independence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my austrian colleague, mr paul rübig, under the codecision procedure, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the community's participation in a research and development programme implemented by several member states to support smes carrying out research and development activities. i welcome this initiative to increase the €300 million allocation of the eurostars joint programme to many member states and other member states of the european economic area for innovative smes by €100 million over six years in order to catch up with our lagging behind in this area. it is striking that 82% of large us companies founded after 1980 were founded ex nihilo, whereas in the eu the proportion is only 37%. it is therefore clear that small and mediumsized enterprises, especially those which are innovative, represent a considerable hope for economic growth and social progress within our internal market.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of a joint resolution by all political groups on tibet. the text condemns the recent repression in tibet, following earlier resolutions by this parliament calling for dialogue between the two sides. we also call on the chinese government and the dalai lama's supporters to stop all violence. the chinese government must not exploit the 2008 olympic games in an abusive way by arresting dissidents, journalists and human rights activists. we call on the eu presidency to work towards a common european position on the presence of the heads of state or government and the high representative of the european union at the opening ceremony of the olympic games and to envisage a boycott of the games if dialogue between the chinese authorities and his holiness the dalai lama is not resumed.
in writing. in the face of the seriousness of the situation in tibet, the european parliament could no longer remain silent. i therefore supported this resolution which strongly condemns the brutal repression in this region by the chinese security forces. the violence in the streets of lhasa and dharamsala and the censorship of foreign media are intolerable and our institution must, together with the international community, do everything possible to ensure that this ends and that china respects its international commitments on human rights and minorities. i also wanted to express my solidarity with the tibetan people, whose majority does not want independence but greater political autonomy and respect for their cultural and linguistic identity. and while i am not in favour of a total boycott of the beijing olympic games, because i believe that dialogue is always preferable to closure, i regard the games as an opportunity to encourage the chinese authorities to make progress on the path to democracy and i hope, as the resolution recommends, that the eu heads of state and government will adopt a common and concerted attitude towards this event.
in writing. i welcome the great resolve of this assembly today in the face of a situation which has persisted in tibet for decades but which has worsened dramatically in the past month. the defence of our values - european and universal - cannot tolerate silence, and i therefore fully endorse the condemnation of the 'brutal repression of tibetan demonstrators by chinese security forces' and of 'all acts of violence, whatever their origin', in recent days. parliament also called on the chinese authorities to allow an independent international inquiry into the violence in tibet, to open constructive dialogue with the tibetans without delay, to release immediately non-violent protesters and all dissidents arrested in china, and to honour the human rights commitments it made to the ioc and the world in 2001. the resolution calls on the eu heads of state to define a common position on their participation in the opening ceremony of the olympic games.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which was tabled by my socialist colleague, mrs riita myller, from finland. this text, halfway through, gives a worrying picture of the state of progress of the 6th community environment action programme (2002-2012). the implementation of vital measures to combat climate change has thus lagged far behind. similarly, the union's progress in preserving air quality, implementing and complying with community legislation, protecting biodiversity, reforming subsidy systems with a negative impact on the environment or promoting sustainable production/consumption patterns is extremely modest. the report's findings are alarming to say the least, because at present, contrary to the european commission's claims, it seems highly unlikely that the timetable set six years ago will be met and that the environmental priority objectives will be achieved in 2012. in voting for this text, i join the majority of parliament in urging the european commission and the member states to make the necessary leap forward.
in writing. the guy bono report on the cultural industries in europe reaffirms the importance of the cultural dimension in the implementation of the lisbon objectives. it stressed the potential of the cultural industries for employment and growth and the need to strengthen eu support and action in this sector. the report also highlights the opportunities that the internet offers today in terms of access, promotion and dissemination of culture. in this digital environment, however, freedom of access to the internet must be reconciled with the rights and freedoms of everyone. the use of the internet must be in accordance with the fundamental principles on which our democratic societies are founded, including the respect for intellectual property rights. in order to address the massive and repeated illegal downloads that affect the audiovisual and music sectors in particular, appropriate and proportionate measures should be proposed in agreement with the various stakeholders. the temporary suspension of internet access, carried out as part of a graduated response and in respect of individual freedoms, would be an appropriate solution which would also avoid the application of criminal sanctions, the limits of which are now known. i regret that parliament has today rejected that possibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my socialist colleague guy bono on the 'cultural industries' in europe. "cultural industries"? what are you talking about? the expression may seem surprising, but if culture cannot be summed up in its economic dimension, it would be just as harmful to conceal this aspect of the reflection: culture is now a powerful engine of growth and employment, representing, in 2003, 2.6% of gdp and 3.1% of the eu's working population. the text advocates a revival of the european record industry (through a reduced vat rate or a european fund for supporting music) and, in the constant effort to democratize access to culture but also to respect intellectual property, addresses the question of piracy. in this respect, i particularly supported an amendment - adopted by 17 votes to none - which contradicts the repressive strategy of 'graduated response' proposed in france in the report submitted by denis olivennes to the president of the republic. it would not only be impractical, but in my view dangerous, to entrust the role of monitoring and cutting off the internet connection of people suspected of illegal downloads to the internet service providers - private companies.
mr president, i just wanted to remind our colleagues that for the first time ever, wednesday is world malaria day. until now, it was african malaria day. for the first year, it's a world malaria day. i would like to remind you that this global scourge, which is naturally linked to poverty, affects 107 countries worldwide and in 90 of these countries it is a major public health problem, since 40% of the world's population lives in areas affected by malaria. the number of malaria cases worldwide is between 350 and 500 million a year, with more than 60 per cent of cases in africa, which accounts for 90 per cent of deaths. every 30 seconds - that is, by the end of my speech, mr president, two children will have died of malaria - every 30 seconds, a child dies in africa. it is also estimated to be a growth-slowing factor, since malaria costs gdp 12 billion dollars a year. there's a working lunch in room c 2.1 on wednesday at 1 p.m. on this subject.
in writing. the lisbon treaty, which is due to enter into force on 1 january next, will mark an unprecedented strengthening of the prerogatives of our parliament. we must, before the end of this year, sign an interinstitutional agreement which takes account of the extension of codecision and the end of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. in this context, it is worth emphasising our determination to weigh in on the mid-term renegotiation of the financial framework for 2007-2013 and the reorientation of the policies we wish to implement, through a budget that is truly adapted to our ambitions and that does not call into question the principles of solidarity that we hold dear. if we are to be concerned with maximising the effectiveness of our policies, we must be vigilant against any possible attempts to renationalise the cap and regional policies. it also seems important that we can facilitate the emergence of new policies which are useful to our fellow citizens through the budgetary instruments available to our parliament under the flexibility instrument, pilot projects and preparatory actions. finally, the european commission must increase budgetary transparency so that we can monitor the proper use of public money.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we have three tasks in this debate. the first task: we must achieve a european, uniform interpretation of the war and the reasons for the war, that is, a common european memory. it is pointless to continue this endless discussion, to compare stalinist crimes with national socialist crimes. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the whole debate about publicity, democracy and so on, that can be taken as a common interpretation. the common answer is, for example, the european union or, for example, the charter of fundamental rights, which is basically the lesson of these two totalitarianisms that have so destroyed our continent. secondly, if we look around the world, we see rwanda, bosnia, darfur and so on. that means the destruction of humanity continues. what we need - and i think mrs ludford has said it right - is the international criminal court, common rules. what we must strive for today is that all civilized states recognize this international court of justice so that such crimes, which are differentiated, which are not all the same, but which are all crimes in some way, can then also be made justiciable. because you will only encounter such crimes if you can bring those responsible to justice. the people responsible may be in guantanamo, in darfur, in bosnia, with the bosnian serbs, or wherever. but justice is only achieved when those responsible are brought to justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we will support any initiative which contributes to the eradication of racism and xenophobia, the promotion of fundamental rights and, even more so, the unconditional condemnation of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. and this is true regardless of the time or place. this fight has no taboo, either in regard to the tragedies of the past or in regard to the tragedies of the present throughout the world. this is true of europe, of course, and of nazism. this is also true of mussolini's, petain's, franco's and salazar's fascisms, such as that of the greek colonels. we are equally ready for a radical condemnation of the abominable crimes of stalinism. colonialism is also not to be forgotten. finally, our intransigence must be worth more than that for racist, xenophobic or openly neo-fascist demonstrations, which are still tolerated to a very high degree in some countries, new or old, of the european union. there is only one thing that is unacceptable, not to our group in particular, but to those who have paid with their lives for the fight against the worst genocide in modern history, and that is the attempt to subtly trivialize nazism by classifying it in a generic category including stalinism, or even the regimes in force in central and eastern europe until the fall of the wall. listen to three recent quotations on this subject, among many others, which are not commented upon. first, this extract from a statement by the union of german survivors of the neuengamme concentration camp. i quote: "the german labour party has always opposed the equalisation of national socialism and stalinism. then there is the arrest of the beirat of former buchenwald prisoners. i quote: "those who want to merge misrepresent the importance of nazi barbarism in german history". finally, the words of the secretary-general of the central council of jews in germany, chastising those who dare to draw a comparison between the former gdr and the nazi regime; i quote: "any attempt to put them in parallel is a staggering relativisation of the denial of rights, the deportation and mass extermination of millions of innocent men, women and children, during the nazi dictatorship". thank you for considering these accounts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr adamou on his work. if one of the objectives of this report is to abolish frontiers in organ donation and to ensure the safety of transplants, the first problem is that of self-sufficiency within each member state and within the european union. the shortage of organs affects all member states to varying degrees. while this situation with its dramatic consequences for people waiting for a transplant is one of the causes of organ trafficking, it is not the only reason. it seems that the primary source of organ trafficking is their market value. if we are to remedy this situation, at least within the european union, we must be guided by three principles: free, voluntary and anonymous. if marketing is not possible, traffic will be more difficult. and to try to address this fundamental issue of shortages, as the report points out, we need not only to carry out genuine mobilisation campaigns but also to raise awareness among potential donors. some member states have already shown us the way forward. it is worth recalling that in the field of blood donation, which is also in short supply in europe, we asked several years ago that each member state should carry out campaigns to encourage blood donation. what about this request? can we build on this experience and extend it, even improve it, to cover organs as well? i would like to stress two points, however, which i find problematic. first, the donor card, which is not appropriate, and secondly, the question of the living donor, which i think should be better dealt with. these two points emphasize the essential role and place of doctors or surgeons. finally, the report refers to the therapeutic possibilities offered by the use of adult stem cells. i would also like to mention the prospects of cord blood as a substitute for bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of blood cancers. we must not neglect this path. i already mentioned it at your hearing, commissioner.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join my colleagues in thanking and congratulating our colleague, mrs harkin, for producing this report. but this is not by chance, because our colleague has a long experience in the field of volunteering and it is quite natural that she has proposed this report. we have, of course, applauded her for being able to get this report and she has drafted it in a very consensual way because, as you have noticed, we will have only one amendment and she agrees to that amendment. this shows the quality of his report and i think it deserves to be emphasized with fervour, with force. commissioner danuta hübner, i was going to say in advance that you have already given a number of positive answers to the requests made in this report. i thank you in advance and then some of the other speeches by our colleagues will no doubt enable you to provide further replies from the commission in the next few hours and days. what i would like to stress in addition to what has been said and written in the report is that, while there are 100 million europeans who devote themselves every day to the benefit of 500 million europeans, we must not forget that these 100 million europeans who devote themselves are making a personal profit, not in the monetary sense but in the sense of personal fulfilment. you all know, we all know, of course, sports team leaders, cultural leaders, social leaders, without whom our associations, our non-governmental organizations would not function. but these people need their commitment to grow as individuals. in a society that is aging, in a society where we have more and more young people retiring, we also need that individual balance that volunteering provides. so for economic reasons but also for the flourishing of the human values of our fellow citizens, more than a hundred million of them, let's make this volunteering valued in our societies and hopefully in the coming years, it will be much more than a hundred million fellow citizens who will be engaged in volunteering. i thank marian harkin, i thank the commission, i thank the governments and the regional and local authorities who will be supporting the wishes expressed by the european parliament tomorrow with their actions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, president of the european investment bank, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to thank you, mr president, for the quality of your relations with the european parliamentarians of the committee on budgetary control, which have largely made it possible to draw up the report we are about to discuss. i would like to thank your team of staff and your vice-president, philippe de fontaine-vive, with whom i was able to work in total transparency at the bank's headquarters in luxembourg. you, mr president, are assuming your mandate with great skill, heart, determination and audacity, but also with wisdom and, i would add, elegance. the eib, established by the treaty of rome, celebrates its 50th anniversary in 2008. its members are the member states of the european union, whose finance ministers make up its board of governors. its task is to contribute to the development of the common market by making use of the capital market and its own resources. it is a community instrument, but within which power is exercised in an intergovernmental manner. it is useful for citizens' representatives to have a say on such issues at a time when the european union is faced with performance requirements vis-à-vis those same citizens who often benefit from eib services without knowing it. first of all, i would like to congratulate the bank on its action, its ambitious business plan and its projects; i particularly welcome the quality of the new strategy 2007-09 including transparency, enhanced added value and a gradual increase in risk-taking, activities for smes and local authorities, the use of new financial instruments and intensified cooperation with the european commission. the bank's important role in the neighbourhood policy should also be underlined, and the report calls in particular for the strengthening of the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership facility, femip, within the framework of the euro-mediterranean policy. but i believe that the time has come to go even further, faster and better, both in terms of monitoring and in terms of supporting the european union in financing its investments. in terms of control mechanisms, i think the time has come to establish a real banking regulatory control and i suggest that the european committee of banking supervisors, based in london, be called upon by the eib itself to examine the conditions of this regulatory task and, in particular, to determine who might be able to ensure it in the absence, i regret, of a real european banking regulator. as regards the european union's support for the financing of the investments estimated at eur 600 billion needed for the transeuropean transport networks alone, i propose that we consider the role of the european union in the planning and development of our territory. the financing provided by the member states and the union is far from being able to meet the needs. is it normal, commissioner, that the european union should have difficulty finding eur 3.4 billion to finance a project as strategic in industrial, scientific and military terms as galileo, in this context? i suggest that the commission, taking into account the quality of its human resources, its history and its experience in financing major infrastructure projects, give the eib a mandate to think strategically about financing investments, not excluding any assumptions: grants, the release of sums subscribed by the member states to the bank's capital, loans, including special loans from the member states provided for in article 6 of the bank's statute, innovative instruments such as risk-sharing, loan guarantee instruments, financial engineering adapted to long-term projects which are not immediately financially viable according to the criteria derived from market logic, the creation of an investment section within the budget of the european union, financial consortia between european, national and local authorities, public-private partnerships, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i look forward to the debate that will follow and thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank our commissioner, mr almunia, and, mr president, thank you for your precise answers. i also thank the rapporteurs of the political groups who have helped to draw up this report. a few thoughts on the debate which is drawing to a close, first on the task of regulation. i believe it is in everyone's interest that this banking regulatory mission be established. i don't have the answer, obviously. the idea of the european central bank seems to me to be a good one. in the short term, the fact that the luxembourg regulatory body is emphasizing an independent mission, a real regulatory mission, could also be a short-term solution. nevertheless, i believe that parliament will be very interested in hearing the opinion of the committee of european banking supervisors if the bank takes it up as the report suggests. finally, on the financing of infrastructure, i would like to say that it is clear that the european union is at a crossroads and that today we cannot be satisfied with financing, and that debt, of course, must not be used to finance the operation of the system, as is unfortunately the case in some member states. but debt, cleverly used for investment, is an element of economic and social performance in our european territory, which is in competition with all other economic territories in the world. and i think the time has come for a great policy of land planning and development, backed in part by investment. and we need the public sphere to invest. because if the public sphere doesn't invest, well, let's not expect the private to do so. it is a matter of collective confidence in the future of the european union and i am glad that the european investment bank can contribute its expertise through its experience and the quality of its human resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to mention one important aspect of discharge, namely the measurement of actions by sampling. during the preparation of my working document on the commission's management of the cards programme for the balkans, only 2.32% of the operations under discharge were audited by the court of auditors in order to assess the management of the external actions of the european union in this region of europe. the small sample did not allow the court of auditors to analyse the impact of actions outside montenegro, since none of the 256 actions financed were examined. in this situation, how can such impacts be measured seriously? how scientifically and financially reliable should such evaluation reports be? although from a statistical point of view small samples make it possible to estimate the behaviour of systems, the sample still needs to be representative, which was not the case for the appropriations financing actions in montenegro for the cards programme. collectively, european taxpayers would benefit from improved methods of analysis of samples by the court of auditors to better identify the efficiency of our budget appropriations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague, bárbara dührkop dührkop, which approved, subject to amendments, the initiative of the federal republic of germany with a view to adopting a council decision on the implementation of the decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime. i welcome germany's initiative to ensure that member states comply with the common technical specifications in all requests and responses relating to the consultation and comparison of dna profiles, dactyloscopic data (e.g. fingerprints, handprints, etc.) and vehicle registration data. i support the report's assertions that the processing of particular categories of data concerning racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union membership, sexual orientation or health status should only be possible if it is strictly necessary and proportionate in the context of a specific case and with specific safeguards.
in writing. in the face of insecurity and crime, the european union must set itself two major objectives. the first is to strengthen the fight against terrorism, which knows no borders and no limits to the violence of its acts and the threat it poses. the second objective is still the protection of the fundamental rights which are the foundation of the european construction. the adoption by all member states of the prüm treaty proposed by germany in 2007 is part of the necessary improvement of police cooperation within the european union. the exchange of dna data and vital information such as fingerprints or vehicle registration between the different national systems has already enabled many investigations to be completed. from the fight against kidnapping to international terrorism to the organisation of transnational events, these measures are becoming indispensable. however, european policy must combat crime and delinquency and not build a system which will undermine the rule of law and dangerously weaken democracy. the accessibility and use of personal data must be governed by european rules, the rapid adoption of which is to be hoped. this report illustrates the importance of a balance between data use and data protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my finnish colleague anneli jäätteenmäki on a proposal for a european parliament decision amending the european parliament's decision on the ombudsman's statute and general conditions of performance of his duties, which itself called for these matters to be changed. i support the report in that it proposes to adapt the ombudsman's statute so as to remove any uncertainty about the ombudsman's ability to conduct thorough and impartial investigations into alleged cases of maladministration. subject to the application of professional secrecy, i welcome the obligation of officials to give evidence. i also support the idea that access to classified information or documents, especially sensitive documents, should be subject to the ombudsman's compliance with rules strictly equivalent to those in force in the institution or body in question. i congratulate the rapporteur for pointing out that the ombudsman and his staff will be required not to disclose any sensitive information or any document falling within the scope of community legislation on the protection of personal data. it will be difficult to monitor the application of these rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my cypriot colleague, adamos adamou, which welcomes the european commission's communication on eu policy action on organ donation and transplantation and proposes an integrated approach to ensure the quality and safety of organs, increase their availability and combat organ trafficking. i welcome the areas of intervention identified, namely: improving quality and safety, increasing the availability of organs and making transplant systems more efficient and accessible, and the mechanisms for action aimed at strengthening cooperation between member states and implementing a community legal instrument which would set the quality and safety requirements for the donation, procurement, verification, preservation, transport and distribution of organs in the european union while providing the resources to meet these requirements.
in writing. i would like to take this opportunity of voting on this report to underline the constant discrepancy between the european union's words and deeds in certain areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. but what is to be expected when the commission and several of those same member states now recognise kosovo and its leaders, some of whom are personally involved in trafficking in organs taken from serb prisoners murdered for that purpose, according to carla del ponte, former president of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia? what should we think when no state takes sanctions against china, nor protests, while consistent testimonies and investigations have tended to show that executions are scheduled according to the needs of organs, sometimes for foreign patients. what is the plan for the rich europeans who bypass the shortage by engaging in the morbid tourism that encourages these practices? mr adamou's report is strangely elliptical on these subjects. wishing well inside, silence outside... it's a given when certain countries are involved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. organ donation is a life-giving gesture, a self-giving that is the ultimate and strong act of solidarity. unfortunately, the shortage of organs is still widespread, and nearly ten people die every day in europe waiting for a transplant. the eu must facilitate the rapprochement of national transplantation bodies. increased cooperation would provide safeguards for patients who donate or receive organs outside their member state. some new member states with less well-equipped health systems could benefit. the shortage of organs is also all too often linked to organ trafficking. forms of 'transplant tourism' are emerging which exploit poverty outside the eu's borders. this 'trafficking' in human beings risks undermining the confidence of citizens and exacerbating the shortage of voluntary organ and tissue donations. free of charge is also a fundamental principle. however, the living donor must be reimbursed for the costs of the withdrawals. finally, we must promote research in biotechnology which will provide researchers with the means to reconstitute organs from tissues, either from patients themselves or from other tissue donors.
in writing. organ donation in the european union will face three major challenges in the coming years. firstly, there is a lack of available bodies in the eu. this shortage causes the death of nearly ten patients every day waiting for a donation. secondly, the risks of organ transplantation remain a major concern. the transmission of serious diseases such as hiv, certain hepatitis and cancer remains a reality affecting european citizens. finally, the eu member states will have to deal in a serious and coordinated manner with the issue of organ trafficking, which, although it remains relatively limited within the community, nevertheless raises political and above all ethical concerns. the recommendations in the adamou report are in the right direction: exchange of best practice, enhanced cooperation, increased exchanges of organs between member states, better public information and the need to preserve the voluntary and non-commercial nature of organ donation. these proposals, if implemented, will make it possible to improve substantially and rapidly the conditions for organ donation and transplantation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'organ donation and transplantation: political action at eu level', presented by my cypriot colleague adamou adamos. as we all know, organ transplants save lives and improve the daily lives of many of our citizens. nevertheless, the union is currently suffering from a real shortage of donated organs: 40 000 patients are currently waiting for a transplant and it is estimated that 10 of them die every day. this is the problem we have been looking at, with measures such as the creation of a european donor card, increased cooperation between member states, raising awareness among citizens, the introduction of a single number for organ transplants and the promotion of biotechnology research which would make it possible in the future to reconstitute organs without the need for donation. the need to make up for this shortage of organs should not, however, lead us to renounce our values. i am therefore pleased that this text emphasizes the voluntary, unpaid and, as far as possible, anonymous nature of the donation; the european parliament also called on the member states to combat organ trafficking and transplant tourism more effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my irish colleague marian harkin on the contribution of volunteering to economic and social cohesion. i welcome the quality of its research, which aims to place volunteering as a major element that nourishes civil society and strengthens solidarity - one of the core values of our european union. recognising the usefulness of volunteering in all its components, public and private, is essential to its development and to the search for the great balances between the economic, social and environmental aspects; the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of sustainable development. i regret that the report does not address the question of the evaluation of volunteering without also dealing with the fact that volunteering can be defined as a kind of compensated volunteering because the rapporteur considered, in the definition, that volunteering is unpaid. this report is an important step in the recognition of the essential role of non-profit institutions (npi).
in writing. i voted for the discharge for the general budget of the european union for 2006 and for the report by my danish colleague dan jørgensen recommending that the commission be given discharge. the report recalls that 80% of community expenditure is administered by the member states under 'shared management' and that each member state must be able, under the current organisation, to assume responsibility for the management of the community funds received. at present, this reporting must be done in the form of a single national management declaration or in the form of several declarations within a national framework. it is becoming urgent to have an agreement between the commission and the member states on the arrangements for the handover of shared management in the context of future landfills, since it is regrettable that for structural actions, internal policies and external actions, payments are still significantly affected by errors at the level of the bodies responsible for implementation. i regret that the commission is tacitly accepting the collective irresponsibility of the majority of member states with regard to the financial management of the eu. finally, i support the idea of a european authority for the real estate function.
in writing. i voted for the discharge to the president of parliament for the implementation of the 2006 budget and for the report by my spanish colleague josé javier pomés ruiz recommending that parliament vote for the discharge. i support the idea that the new status of assistants should come into force at the same time as that of meps. as regards parliamentary assistance allowances, i believe that the contractual freedom of members, which is a condition of their independence, should be maintained and that this should be subject to the control of the national administrations within the framework of a logic of subsidiarity. i am therefore opposed to any measure restricting the free will of members, including the employment of related persons, subject, of course, to actual work normally paid. as regards the voluntary pension fund, which is a supplementary pension scheme co-financed by the member and the employer, i agree with the publication of the names of the beneficiaries and with the reform of this pension scheme taking place alongside the reform of the members' statute. finally, i support the evaluation of its staffing needs to find out how many staff will be needed to help parliamentarians carry out their work after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the 30 or so reports voted on today, which give discharge to the management of community funds by the various institutions and agencies of the european union, show that there is control over expenditure. and it is precisely this control that makes it possible to highlight the malfunctions, the errors, the abuses in the management of the structural funds, in that of external aid, etc. some of them, anyway. but they also show that parliament has chosen to approve the management of european finances, despite everything. it is therefore a political act of support for the brussels machine of which it is a cog, rather than a critical exercise. it is true that it is particularly concerned, after an audit report on the cost of parliamentary assistance has been drawn up, which highlights its own shortcomings. and it is symptomatic that the transparency which this parliament is so quick to ask of others, of all the others - council, commission, member states, agencies... - is clearly not for it. because this explosive report for the reputation of this house is not available to the public, not even to the whole house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. keeping these facts secret won't make them go away.
in writing. i voted to give the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2006 budget on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren recommending that the european parliament give the secretary-general of the council a discharge. i regret that, unlike the other institutions, the council does not publish an annual activity report. the council is based on an informal agreement of 1970, but it seems essential that the council should be accountable to the european citizens. under this agreement, the council undertook not to alter the estimates of the european parliament's expenditure. this undertaking shall apply only if the estimates do not affect community provisions, in particular those relating to the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants and the seat of the institutions. as regards the common european security policy (cfsp), i support the request for maximum transparency and for ensuring that, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006, no operational expenditure in the field of the cfsp is included in the council's budget. nevertheless, i believe that the council should have a discretionary budget under the cfsp.
in writing. i voted the discharge on the implementation of the 2006 budget of the european court of justice (ecj) on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren recommending that parliament give the court's registrar a discharge. i welcome the adoption by the court of a code of conduct applicable to members and former members of the court of justice, the court of first instance and the civil service tribunal, including an obligation to submit a declaration of financial interests, but i regret that this information is not published on the court's website. i note that the real estate issues (problem of appointing an independent expert for the extension of the main building; lease-purchase agreement signed between the grand duchy of luxembourg and the court to complete the 2001 framework contract providing for the sale to the court of the land on which the complex is located for the symbolic price of eur 1 once the court of justice has become the owner of the buildings; lack of competition) confirm the need to create a european authority for all real estate issues of our institutions.
in writing. i voted the discharge on the implementation of the court of auditors' 2006 budget on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren recommending that the european parliament give the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge. i welcome the quality of the accounts produced which are supervised by an external auditor and the internal auditor with favourable conclusions. as regards declarations of financial interests, like my colleagues, i note that, in accordance with its code of conduct, the members of the court declare their financial interests and other assets (including shares, convertible bonds and investment certificates, as well as land and real estate property, plus the professional activities of their spouses). i agree with my colleagues that members of all the institutions of the union should submit a declaration of financial interests and publish this information on the internet via a public register. but a distinction must be made between enrichment, which must measure amounts, and the issue of conflicts of interest, which must show the nature of assets owned directly or indirectly and relationship links.
in writing. i voted the discharge for the implementation of the 2006 budget of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren recommending that parliament give the discharge to the secretary-general of the eesc. like many colleagues, i welcome the signing in december 2007 of a new administrative cooperation agreement between the eesc and the committee of the regions (cor) for the period 2008-2014, knowing that this cooperation will be financially beneficial for the european taxpayer. as regards controls, the eesc considered in its annual activity report that the number of ex-post controls carried out in 2006 was insufficient. however, this situation seems to have improved. it is crucial that the checks carried out are rigorous and the personal assurance given by the eesc secretary-general that the eesc's ex-ante and ex-post checks are effective and regular is welcome. at the same time, like many colleagues, i congratulate the eesc on the establishment of an audit committee of three eesc members, whose tasks will be to verify the independence of the internal audit unit and to evaluate the measures taken in response to the recommendations made in the audit reports.
in writing. i voted to give the secretary-general of the committee of the regions (cor) discharge for the implementation of the 2008 budget on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague, nils lundgren, which recommends that parliament give discharge. like many colleagues, i welcome the signing in december 2007 of a new administrative cooperation agreement between the european economic and social committee (eesc) and the committee of the regions (cor) for the period 2008-2014, in the knowledge that this cooperation will be financially beneficial for the european taxpayer. under the new agreement, the most important sectors (infrastructure, it and telecommunications, and translation, including document production) remain in the remit of the two institutions' joint services, while a limited number of services will be decoupled (internal services, social and medical services, library and prepress). i welcome the outcome of the unfortunate cases of travel expenses for members of the committee of the regions and of the transfer of salaries of certain civil servants. finally, i welcome the strengthening of the independence of the audit service and the increase in its resources.
in writing. i voted to discharge the european ombudsman for the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren. like many colleagues, i am surprised that during the period 2003-2006 the ombudsman's commitment appropriations have increased steadily (from eur 4 438 653 to eur 7 682 538 in 3 years (+73%), the number of posts increased from 31 to 57 (+84%) while complaints increased by 57% and newly opened inquiries increased from 253 to 258, +2%). on the operational side, i welcome the conclusion of the new framework cooperation agreement with parliament for the provision of administrative services and the appointment of the first secretary-general of the ombudsman with effect from 1 august 2006. it appears that the effectiveness of controls could be improved in some areas. i am also surprised by the difficulties in recruitment mentioned by the ombudsman in his 2006 annual report, particularly as regards qualified lawyers, due to the two successive waves of enlargement (2004 and 2007), staff movements and the difficulty in attracting and retaining candidates in strasbourg by offering them temporary contracts.
in writing. i voted to give the european data protection supervisor (edps) discharge for the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my swedish colleague nils lundgren which recommends that parliament give discharge. like many colleagues, i welcome the initiative taken by the edps and the deputy controller to publish an annual declaration of financial interests, in a form similar to that of meps. it also welcomed the renewal on 7 december 2006 of the administrative cooperation agreement between the secretaries-general of the commission, parliament and the council and the edps for a further period of three years from 16 january 2007. finally, it should be noted that the processes for ex post prior checks and final opinions by the edps have evolved well and that the institution has established an internal control structure adapted to its activities and needs.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. i am surprised that the court of auditors has again found high rates of carry-overs in the implementation of the foundation's budget (43% for administrative expenditure and 45% for operational activities) and on the doubts expressed by the court about the foundation's compliance with the principle of budgetary annuality.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. i am surprised that the court of auditors did not mention that the foundation director's insurance statement had reservations.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. i welcome the establishment of a framework for cooperation between cedefop and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions to ensure the use of available research funds in areas of common interest.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. it is surprising to note that the translation centre accumulated a budget surplus of eur 16.9 million in 2006 and that in 2007 the centre is expected to reimburse some eur 9.3 million to its clients. this accumulation of surpluses seems to indicate that the centre's method of pricing its translations is not sufficiently precise.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and to not hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. there is concern that once again legal commitments have been made by the centre in the absence of prior budgetary commitments; this is contrary to the provisions of the financial regulation. the centre shall take the necessary measures, including in terms of accounting management, to improve the procedures for commitments and payments.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i welcome the observatory's intention to plan to carry out an evaluation of its operations in 2007 and to expect a management plan for 2008 and 2009.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights (formerly the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia) on the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. the agency's annual reports and accounts for the 2006 and 2007 work programmes contain relatively little information on budget implementation, financial reporting, risk, evaluation and audit. the agency needs to improve the quality of its reporting and publish its annual activity report on its website.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european agency for reconstruction discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. i support the possibility of having a joint disciplinary board for all agencies. i welcome the role of the agency for development and stability in the balkans and its good management of the cards programme. the agency has fully fulfilled its mandate and can now complete its activities, scheduled for the end of 2008, with a view to entrusting the management of assistance to serbia, kosovo, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) to the commission delegations in these countries.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. it is surprising that a considerable amount of budget appropriations for operational activities was carried over by the european environment agency for the financial year 2007; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. it is also regrettable that there are certain dysfunctions in the agency's control system, which has not clearly separated the functions of authorising officer and accounting officer.
in writing. i voted to give the discharge to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin which recommends that parliament give this discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and not to hesitate to close an agency if the analysis concludes that it is useless. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. i commend the agency for its work in disseminating prevention methods in the field of occupational safety and health in the eu. i regret, however, that it does not communicate sufficiently with the social services in the member states which are specialised in occupational safety and health.
in writing. i voted to give the discharge to the director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin which recommends that parliament give this discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006). the commission should present a study every five years on the added value of each agency and close down unnecessary agencies. i support the possibility of having a joint disciplinary board for all agencies. i cannot understand the concerns of the board of the european medicines agency that the new tasks assigned to it would not be sufficiently funded. the agency's financial situation appears to be flourishing with a low rate of credit utilisation (less than 60%) and considerable accounting surpluses linked to accruals, both a community grant and fees paid by companies to maintain marketing authorisations for medicinal products in the community (i.e. revenues of eur 119 million in 2006 + a community grant of eur 31 million).
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give this discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. i find it curious that the authority's expenditure is under-performing, mainly due to the difficulties in recruiting highly qualified scientific staff in parma (only two thirds of the 250 posts planned by the authority could be filled by the end of 2006) and inconsistencies in the accounts.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european maritime safety agency on the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my colleague hans-peter martin which recommends that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. as regards the agency, i regret the very low rate of utilisation (67.7%) of payment appropriations for measures to combat marine pollution, whereas parliament has largely supported this type of measure in the budgetary procedure. finally, there is concern about too many budget transfers, poor recruitment planning and incorrect budget presentation.
in writing. i voted to give the discharge to the director of the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give this discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. the structure of the fees of the european aviation safety agency needs to be reviewed in order to balance the revenue and expenditure related to certification activities (revenue of €35 million for expenditure of €48 million).
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of my colleague hans-peter martin's report recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. as regards the operation of the european railway agency, it is regrettable that very large amounts of appropriations (85 per cent for operational expenditure) have been carried over and it is to be welcomed that the agency has decided to implement the 24 internal control standards set by the commission for 2008 and its decision to recruit a procurement officer to speed up and make this function more reliable and an internal auditor.
in writing. i voted to discharge the executive director of the european network and information security agency from the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin. the discharge procedure should be simplified for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. as regards the european network and information security agency, i would like to stress that i do not share the opinion of the european parliament which rejects the commission's proposal to transfer the agency's responsibilities to a new european electronic communications market authority whose tasks, as from 2010, would be to ensure that national regulators operate effectively as a team, on the basis of common guiding principles, to issue opinions and to assist in the preparation of commission measures concerning the internal market in the telecommunications sector.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex agency) in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give this discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. as regards frontex, it is not normal that the agency only obtained full financial autonomy from 1 october 2006 and that before that date all administrative expenditure required the authorisation of the commission in brussels. i commend the agency for its work with insufficient resources and hope that these will be significantly increased in the future.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the administrative director of eurojust on the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. as regards eurojust, i am surprised at the problems linked to the non-respect of the principle of separation of powers for the tasks of authorising officer and financial controller and that cooperation with the anti-fraud office (olaf) is still too weak.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european police college (cepol) discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. while taking into account the reasons given by the college, in particular that it was difficult for this new community body to comply with the principles of the financial regulation from the outset and that the control systems have since been put in place, it seems normal that, by june 2008 at the latest, this body should comply fully with the provisions of the financial regulation.
in writing. i voted to give the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th european development funds (edf) for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my excellent swedish colleague christofer fjellner, who in fact took up the very good work of my other excellent finnish colleague alexander stubb, who was appointed a minister in the governments of his member states, and who recommends that parliament give the discharge. like many colleagues, i regret that the edf is not budgeted in the financial perspective for 2007-13 and that budgeting should be a priority objective of the multiannual financial framework after 2013. in the meantime, simplification of edf management procedures is desirable, including the possibility of closing the old edfs as soon as possible and of uniformising their financial rules. with the opening of the 10th edf in 2008, the commission will have to manage no less than four edfs simultaneously. finally, i am surprised by the €10.3 billion of remaining to be paid , i.e. a quarter of the funds committed, and it is imperative that the commission cuts even more drastically in these funds, especially old and dormant commitments.
in writing. i voted to give the director of the european gnss supervisory authority discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2006 on the basis of the report by my austrian colleague hans-peter martin recommending that parliament give discharge. the discharge procedure should be simplified and streamlined for decentralised agencies, which are increasing (8 in 2000 to 20 in 2006) and represent a total budget of around €1 billion. i support the request to the commission to present every five years a study on the added value of each agency and to close unnecessary agencies. similarly, there is an urgent need for improvements in the internal audit procedures of the agencies and i support the possibility of having a common disciplinary board for all agencies. as regards the european gnss supervisory authority, it should be noted that on 1 january 2007 this body became the owner of the tangible and intangible assets of the galileo programme, which will be financed 100% by public funds and will have to be subject to particularly strict control.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the rise in food prices in the european union and in developing countries.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, i can agree with your report and, especially with regard to africa, you are absolutely right. the epp-ed group is very concerned about the phenomenon of food shortages, which affects many poor countries in the world, but also about the significant increase in the cost of the consumer basket in europe. and now we don't talk about it enough. the food crisis calls for urgent measures to respond to the needs of hungry people. and i welcome the release of funds to the world food programme. but these measures, positive as they are, will only provide very temporary remedies for the problem. in reality, it is global agriculture that needs to undergo profound structural reforms. the food crisis is an opportunity to start a thorough reflection on the place we want to give to food and agriculture in the world and european economy. today, europe is realizing that it needs agriculture more than ever to ensure its food security. and to meet the increased demand of emerging economies, we need to promote agricultural development in these countries. and the biggest challenge is food self-sufficiency for poor countries. we must therefore help them to establish an economically viable agriculture. the freezing of production in europe is no longer appropriate, as you said. in terms of days of consumption, you know that the cereal stocks currently available to the 27 member states of the european union have been halved since 2005 and in the event of a crisis they would be exhausted in a month. imports would not be sufficient, as many third countries tend to reserve their production for the domestic market. and they're right. the raw materials have become the subject of speculation. a ton of wheat is sold several times before it reaches the miller. as for biofuels, many blame them for the current food crisis. but that is far from the case. they account for only 2% of current agricultural production in europe. what i would like to say is that i do not want to defend the agrochemical lobby here, but let us not give up everything just yet. let us keep that 2%, so that we can also participate in the development of agrochemicals in europe in the future. and we will need to use varieties that can withstand the new realities of climate change and the scarcity of water resources. for this we must invest in agronomic research and, let us not hide our faces, we must also think realistically and responsibly, i say think well, about the question of gmos. the health check is an ideal moment to launch a real debate on european agricultural and food policy. let's remember american politics when we were there. two sanctified policies that no one can touch, that's what we were told in congress: defense and food security. we must stop advocating simplistic and purely economic solutions which do not provide lasting answers to the present crisis. but let us also be aware that support for the food problem can only be global. europe must find solutions in collaboration with international bodies such as the world bank, the imf and, of course, the wto. we must find a way to limit the harmful effects of financial speculation while the people cry out for food. some countries have considerable stocks of which they continue to restrict exports. the speculators are gambling with the lives of the people. we must do everything we can to break these phenomena and make trade more fluid. finally, an investigation is needed to determine why the price increase is so high, even though agricultural raw materials represent only a very small percentage of the total price of processed food products. the responsibilities are not yet clearly defined and it would appear that the food crisis is not unfavourable to all. we must take matters into our own hands, commissioner, and carry out the various studies necessary to ensure that there are no people who enrich themselves at the expense of the poorest and also of the lowest income of our fellow citizens in europe.
mr president, the previous speakers have discussed this subject at length, but it is better to repeat than to contradict. when you have a dollar a day to live on and you spend 75 cents of that dollar on food, when that share increases by 40 percent, you have no room to maneuver. there's no question of re-ventilation, so you reduce the food ration, which leads to health problems, you reduce the number of children you send to school because it costs money and you have to feed them first, and you have all the social problems that go along with it. this is exactly the human problem reduced to the individual we encounter. the reasons have been widely discussed. i think we should avoid an ideological interpretation of these reasons, because they cannot be interpreted in a single way. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. climate change is not necessarily harmful everywhere, even though it is having harmful consequences in some countries. as for the change in dietary habits, i consider it rather good news that a part of humanity is eating better than before. and as for speculation, of course we should find ways to prevent western capitalists from making money that vietnamese rice farmers, of course, do not. so this money problem is gonna go away. we will of course find the 315 million euros that will be added to the 2.9 billion that the wfp has. but the real solution, and the commissioner has rightly said so in his report, is to solve the problems of production. it is imperative that we develop agriculture, develop agricultural productivity and particularly african agriculture, which of course means investing in research into hybrids, and stop demonizing gmos which can be part of the solution. we need to invest in the training of men. it was mr dumont who said that it was better to learn to fish than to give a fish and i think that can be applied here too. and especially infrastructure investments, because developing agriculture means developing irrigation, it means developing transport, the ability for a commodity to go from point a to point b to sell, to develop storage and to develop the cold chain, if we want to export that commodity. so it's a mobilization of everybody, not just humanitarian funds. all the instruments of intervention, the imf, the world bank, the afdb and others, must be mobilised to put agriculture back at the heart of the development strategy. it's also an opportunity for us to rethink food security in humanitarian intervention. we can be humble in recognizing that years of humanitarian aid have not been enough to reduce addiction. so perhaps we should ask ourselves about humanitarian aid in order to have a clear conscience. there is no ideological reading here either. let us ask ourselves about the external causes, the concentration of populations, natural disasters, the loss of human capital with hiv and aids and, above all, about the links between bad governance and humanitarian consequences.
mr president, the european union, the international community, the imf and the world bank are sounding the alarm, are mobilizing, and that is all the better, in the face of this food crisis, but they are behaving like pyromaniacal firemen. i think that we should take stock of the policies that have been pursued for the last 20 years in the north and the south: the structural adjustment plans pursued by the major international financial institutions which have led to the weakening of the capacity of states to organise and regulate their own economies, the disengagement and disinterest in agriculture, in the context of official development aid, the deregulation, it has been said, the hasty liberalization of world trade and financial flows which have led to a form of social and ecological dumping, to speculation. what makes me uncomfortable is that we give advice, solutions, but we do not criticize much of what has been done in the previous decades. so rather than talking about food security, we should above all allow the countries concerned, particularly africa, to develop their own agriculture, to organise their regional markets and to protect them, yes, to protect them in some way, as the european union did when it set up its common agricultural policy. to do this, we must also listen much more to the farmers' organisations in these countries who are taking initiatives, who have ideas, who have simple demands that could be supported with not necessarily far-reaching means, but let us first listen to the actors on the ground who propose a whole series of initiatives that should be encouraged and supported by the european union in particular.
mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to stress the seriousness of the food crisis and its dramatic consequences in terms of worsening poverty and famine for the people of the developing countries. but the poorest people in western countries, including ourselves, are also affected by the rising food prices and have been suffering for months from the daily rise in prices. there is a need for an urgent response to this situation, but also for longer-term responses, by a real reorientation of the common agricultural policy towards a development aid policy and a wto trade policy which will prevent the abuse of the dominant position of large retailers in europe and speculation on food products, because agriculture is not an economic sector like any other. the risks of famine and social and political instability are too great and i would remind you that the right to food is the first human right. we cannot leave agriculture to the rules of the market alone, and today to speculators looking for safe havens after the housing crisis and the energy and mineral commodities crisis. we must therefore have the tools to regulate markets, sound and coherent public policies on agriculture and food, and to replenish intervention stocks as soon as possible in order to be able to react to this kind of emergency situation. the priority must also be given to agricultural production for food and food crops in developing countries over non-food production, particularly agrofuels.
on behalf of the alde group. mr minister, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are specialists in the field of space, the name galileo could be a reference, not only to the italian astronomer, but also to an american space probe designed by nasa for the study of the planet jupiter and its dunes, launched on 18 october 1989 from the space shuttle atlantis. but the launch of this galileo was significantly delayed following the freeze of shuttle flights after the challenger accident. in the end, the success of the galileo mission in the jovian system was spectacular. the similarities with the european galileo programme are there. there were some delays in the program. i hope the similarities in success are confirmed. but what i want most of all is that galileo's name should now be associated with the success of the european programme. in view of the difficult times associated with the failure of the public-private partnership, it is appropriate to mobilize efforts to bring this project into orbit. the european parliament wanted to draw the lessons from past mistakes and assume its responsibilities as co-budgetary authority. it seems to me important that the european parliament has finally agreed to retain a supervisory authority. the control by experts is necessary, not least because the galileo programme is a first for the european union. this is the first time that the european union has invested in infrastructure that it owns. the european commission will be the project manager and the european space agency the project manager. these responsibilities must be clearly defined and allocated, but also adequately controlled. parliament has been heavily involved in the project, so it seems to me legitimate that it should be involved in the monitoring of the programme. i therefore welcome the creation of this interinstitutional galileo committee, which will bring together representatives of parliament, the council and the commission and enable each institution, and in particular our own, to assume its responsibilities. the project must succeed. the credibility of the european union on the international scene is at stake, but first and foremost it is the credibility of the european union in the eyes of its citizens. to do this, i think the esa must rely on the networking of european experts, it must surround itself with the necessary expertise. the aim is to coordinate the industrialists building the different segments, to guarantee the safety of the system and to control costs. i will take the liberty of expressing a more personal view of the military use of galileo. the european parliament has been keen to severely restrict the possibilities of military use. it's a shame, but perhaps the program will prove by its maturity the relevance of a targeted military use of this tool. galileo advanced science but also, indirectly, philosophy and other areas of thought. galileo will have considerable implications in terms of application, in terms of the independence of our continent, but also in terms of the enshrinement of the union.
mr president, i was one of those present at the beginning of galileo's adventure and i can now see, perhaps with a little more clarity, how far behind it is. i believe this file suffered from a double genetic disease. firstly, it was the first major community project of industrial collaboration and it was not easy to convince the public that the union could own a satellite navigation system. so it took a long time to get a political consensus. secondly, the business plan could not be the one that had been imagined in the beginning, simply because gps, the big competitor, is free and 100% financed by us public funds. it was necessary to overcome these two initial difficulties, first of all to realise them, and then, under the impetus of the slovenian presidency and jacques barrot, to achieve a remarkable consensus between the three institutions which has led us today, after a trilogue, to a document and a text which will mark the great launch of galileo tomorrow before the second satellite is launched on baikonur on saturday.
mr president, like no other programme, the galileo programme, like egnos, embodies the spirit of the european project: to come together to go further together. more than any other project, the galileo project is a response to the spirit of the community and cannot be a response to national selfishness. the idea of financing by national contribution, even partial, was not a good idea. it is good that today the debate has been decided in favour of full funding from the european union budget. i would like to welcome the work of the european commission in seeking an alternative solution to the lack of agreement between industrialists, and its work in seeking a proposal on the method of awarding contracts which would bring the twenty-seven and the european parliament together. today, financial transparency finally exists. it is a good thing that our institution and the council are preparing to give their consent without delay. the scientific community and the employees of the space industry - and i meet many of them in my region of toulouse - have immense expectations of us. don't let them down
mr president, (inaudible) galileo, the first community infrastructure, requires the common will of all the actors working towards the same objective, success. this challenge confirms the need for such support. the us gps system is a competitor, but its development has been hampered by successive delays. with this amended report, we are trying to give ourselves the means to succeed on the basis of this joint decision. overcoming the complexity of regulation, the new architecture, the clarified responsibilities linked to the new governance, this must be our new frontier in order to build this global navigation system in concrete terms. this necessary and more timely than ever, overrun will avoid adding to five years of delay any further delays. it is therefore our collective responsibility to monitor the practical application, to initiate and promote the conquest of markets by helping to develop them. the electronics and software industries have much to gain from the development of radio navigation systems. the battle is, and will be, fierce to establish this system against the existing system.
for the gue/ngl group commissioner, first of all, i would like to point out that my colleagues in the conference of presidents who decided against my wishes to have this debate at a late hour are all absent this evening. but even in the night session, i am glad that we have finally had a first debate on this serious matter of the european court of justice's legitimization of wage dumping, a matter which you, commissioner, have just discussed in twenty seconds with a singular ease. i shall therefore briefly recall the three stages of this new departure from european law. 11 december 2007: the court condemns a trade union action against the finnish shipowner viking line for re-registering its ferry in estonia to undercut the salary of the seamen. 18 december 2007: the court again condemns trade unions, this time in sweden, in vaxholm, for blocking the work of a latvian company which refused to apply the collective agreement in force in this sector. 3 april 2008: the court finds the land of lower saxony, germany, guilty of having imposed a minimum wage on all construction companies winning a public contract. the court thus upheld the case of a polish subcontractor of a german company which paid its workers wages more than half the current rate. this is the rüffert decision. in all three cases, the court's basic reason for its decision encouraging wage dumping was the same: community law prohibits any measure which - listen carefully - is likely to make the conditions imposed on an undertaking in another member state less attractive because it constitutes - i quote again - a restriction on the freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment, which are among the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaty. this is simply unacceptable. where is the social element in such a liberal logic? indeed, any social advance in a country makes a market in some way less attractive - to use the court's expression - for competing firms. i would add that in all three cases the famous directive on the posting of workers did not provide any protection for the workers concerned. the court of justice has also stated, and i quote, that 'the purpose of this directive is to achieve freedom to provide services'. it doesn't talk about protecting workers. finally, in all three cases the court has taken its decision in the light of specific articles of the treaty and not just the text of the directive. in the light of specific articles of the treaty, article 43 in the first case, article 49 in the other two, both of which are reproduced as they stand in the draft treaty of lisbon in the process of ratification. so my conclusion is clear. amending a directive will not be enough to overcome the problem posed by these judgments. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty and has been a party to the treaty of rome. it is difficult, but i think it is necessary, because otherwise we can expect a serious crisis of legitimacy in the future for the current european economic and social model.
it is true, commissioner, that we are very disappointed to see the way in which the freedom to provide services is applied, according to the case law. it may be assumed that, in certain interpretations, the court of justice wishes to establish the primacy of articles 43 and 49 over all other considerations. but i am wary of manichean analyses of case law which, as you all know, are first and foremost cases in point. i think the question we need to ask ourselves is how to guarantee the social acquis and how, in particular, to answer two questions. what is the minimum wage level to which a company must be subject under the national law of the host country? and secondly, how far can the collective action of the trade unions to ensure equal treatment between national workers and posted workers be limited? to answer these questions, i do not believe that the secondment directive should be changed. i think we would be taking a big risk to do that. i find the proposal of the european trade union confederation for a social clause more interesting. i believe that it is simply a matter of applying, as elmar brok has said, the old and new treaties, article 3.3, article 6.1 and the charter of fundamental rights, which is now positive law. it is also a question of enforcing - and national parliaments will be able to ensure - the principle of subsidiarity in all matters relating to labour law, workers' rights and the right to strike, in particular. the french presidency must now, in the near future, activate the social agenda and for you, commissioner, the commission must go beyond the simple observation you have made, and beyond the purely administrative and minimal recommendation, to move towards a more political text which takes full account of the uncertainties arising from the case law.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, i applaud mrs gomes, but i would like to ask a general question. i'd like to ask you who the government of the people's republic of china is laughing at? and i'll even offer an answer. i think he's making fun of the world. he has made a mockery of the european commission itself, whether naïve or consenting, in the textile quota episode. it makes a mockery of the rules of international trade - if there are still rules anywhere - by never checking that the manufacture of exported products meets the quality and safety rules required of importing countries, especially as regards toys, thus showing the absurdity of generalised free trade. he mocks france by organizing anti-french demonstrations in the streets of paris because he is uncomfortable with the protests that france is proud to spearhead against the ill-treatment of the people of tibet, whom he holds under his boot. in fact, he mocks the world because he knows that the world covets his extraordinary market and that the world, alas, alas, three times alas, is no longer governed by the market. so it is taking it easy and its domination will be all the more constraining because, by a clever policy, much more clever than our policy, mr michel, the chinese government is managing to circumvent europe by imposing itself in africa, thus controlling our most essential raw materials. let us not blame him here, he is simply feeding on our weaknesses, in particular the stupid and dangerous disengagement of europe, and in particular of france, from a continent which, however, will be increasingly essential for us in the 21st century.
the rapporteur. - madam president, development aid has been in the news these last few days, but unfortunately for the wrong reasons. the eu's aid fell in 2007 for the first time since 2000, and this is a regrettable political message to the countries and peoples of the south, at a time when the most vulnerable of them are being hit hardest by the food crisis. so this parliament supports the commission, supports you, commissioner, so that the union's commitment is reaffirmed forcefully and with a binding timetable at the next european summit in brussels, because we have a dual responsibility in terms of international solidarity. first, we must respect our commitment and then we must be sure that our aid is making a real and effective contribution to the fight against poverty. and that is the whole point of implementing the 10th edf with almost 22.7 billion euros for the next six years. i believe that this is a major asset in the hands of the union in fighting poverty and building a fairer world. that is why we are very concerned about the delays in the ratification procedure. the commission has made commitments to ensure the continuity of financing provisionally, but the situation could very soon become untenable for the most fragile countries in africa. our first priority for the 10th edf is its democratic control. democratic control of the european parliament first, with the budgetization of the edf, and this time i hope we will not miss the deadline for the revision of the financial perspective in 2010. democratic control of national parliaments with a strengthened capacity support programme. we also want education and health to be priority areas of action with 20% of the edf appropriations. however, only 6.1% is planned for them and again this figure has fallen in comparison with the 9th edf. the commission tells us that it will reach that 20% with budget support, and we take it at its word. the report also highlights shortcomings in the area of gender, which is not yet a fully-fledged area of action. we must reopen this debate, in consultation with our acp partners, with their parliaments, with civil society, at the mid-term review in 2010. as for budget support, i have always found it to be a good instrument, provided, of course, that it respects democracy, good governance and coordination between donors. and because we believe that budget support must serve the millennium goals, we encourage the commission to move forward on this path with its mdg contracts. on the new incentive tranche foreseen in the 10th edf, of course we say yes to a bonus for good governance but not to a governance benefit that would give a little too much to the northern priorities. i am talking about the fight against terrorism, immigration and so on. we will also be vigilant in the matter of financing the economic partnership agreements. here again, the union and its member states have committed themselves to €2 billion of additional trade aid by 2010. but it seems that this 2 billion has melted like snow in the sun and that the commission has already planned to finance the epas on the basis of the integrated regional programmes. it must therefore clarify its intentions in this respect, because the edf appropriations, as far as we are concerned, cannot in any case be used as a premium for the signing of an epa. the report stresses many other points, but i do not have time to go into them, so i will mention only two before concluding. first, the peace support facility for africa. of course we must support the efforts of the african union for peace and conflict prevention on the continent but this facility, in my view, is an instrument of the cfsp and should therefore be financed from the cfsp appropriations. secondly, on cofinancing, the report calls for a first practical application, namely the creation of a pan-african development fund cofinanced by both the edf and the neighbourhood instrument. that is about the content of my report and what its specific features are. mr michel, you recently said, "we are the first generation that can look extreme poverty in the face and say with conviction, we have the money, we have the medicine, we have the know-how. the real challenge is our ability to mobilise the political will to deliver on our promises". well, on that point, mr michel, we in parliament will be with you.
the rapporteur. - thank you all for this debate and for staying up to this late hour. thank you, commissioner. i want to tell you that we will stand by you on official development aid, this parliament stands by you. i read about you in the newspaper, and i know you've had the courage to say some things. i would like to return to two points. first, the incentive portion. you know there's a lot of uncertainty around this device. the decision-making process is not very clear. there is no control and there is no information for the european parliament, the apa or the national parliaments, and as i said earlier, there are certain criteria in the governance profiles that are a problem for us. i shall not go into it, but i think that only external control by the commission, i.e. control by parliament, the national parliaments and the apa over the terms and conditions of payment of the incentive tranche, would remove this ambiguity and that this control should be explicitly included in the implementation of the edf. on regional integration and the epas, i think that the funding for the epas should be additional to the edf funds. i heard what you said. that said, there is a need for clarification on the distribution of the funds, the regional integrated programmes, between regions and between acp countries. we believe you when you say that there is no new conditionality, but we also need this kind of guarantee and precision. anyway, thank you so much for staying until this hour. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the 10th edf is the eu's multiannual framework for cooperation and development with the acp countries. it is worth €22.7 billion for the period 2008-2013 and is designed to help some of the world's poorest and most vulnerable countries. the effectiveness of this fund, the financial arm of european development policy, requires that it be integrated into the general budget of the community, rather than the asymmetric contribution of the member states. budgeting european aid would have certain advantages, since aid to the acp would be subject to the same programming and management rules as other eu external action instruments, thus enhancing the coherence, transparency, efficiency and democratic control of development cooperation. the notion of 'historical links' between some member states and overseas countries and territories must be overcome and africa and development made a priority for the eu as a whole. if the eu is concerned about the efficiency of these policies and programmes, then it must continue to modernise its external aid by integrating the edf into the community budget as from 2009.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, we are pleased that the council has finally given the european commission a mandate to negotiate with the united states to include the 12 countries which were currently excluded from the visa waiver programme. it is also positive that this negotiation is accompanied by the opening of negotiations on the electronic travel authorization system and the exchange of data. but will this mandate really make it possible to put a stop to bilateral negotiations and give priority to a genuine european approach? we wish you would. i would like to remind you once again that no bilateral negotiations are acceptable on visa exemption and on any negotiations on data exchange with the united states, such as the pnr, and that only agreements at the level of the european union can be envisaged. does this negotiating mandate also provide for a comprehensive agreement on the protection of personal data? that 's my question . the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. finally, i would like to point out that sis and vis were set up for specific purposes and that opening up access to data from these systems to third countries would violate the principles of purpose and proportionality. so we're counting on you.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my polish colleague lidia joanna geringer of oedenberg, which proposes to approve, at first reading by the codecision procedure, the proposal for a codified version of the council regulation on the application of article 81 (3) of the treaty to certain categories of agreements, decisions and concerted practices between liner shipping companies ( consortia ). as this was a codification procedure, the proposal did not need to be formally amended by the parliamentary committee and the latter did not do so. nevertheless, i take this opportunity to express my surprise at the delay with which the european union codifies texts which have been amended several times and whose reading and application become more complex over time. the procedure for codification is provided for in an interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, which was the result of the political will of the european council of december 1992 and which provides for an accelerated procedure for the rapid adoption of codified acts. i strongly support the need to codify community legislation: it is an imperative for democracy, the rule of law, the training of students, the proper application by citizens and legal professionals, etc.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the common position to emerge from a very old case on civil and commercial mediation even if this directive will be limited to crossborder cases, based on a restrictive interpretation of article 65 ec but with a broader definition of disputes. however, i regret that the common position does not allow the implementation of the directive by means of voluntary agreements between the parties, even though it is true that the rules of the member states relating to judicial procedures cannot still be amended by agreements between the parties. overall, this common position is to be welcomed, as it remains true to the original objective of facilitating access to dispute resolution procedures and promoting the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and ensuring a satisfactory link between mediation and judicial proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished hungarian colleague, mrs etelka barsi-pataky, which proposes to approve, subject to amendments, the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the further implementation of the european satellite radio navigation programmes (egnos and galileo). on this occasion, i commend the determined action of jacques barrot, vice-president of the european commission responsible for transport, for his determination, his lucidity and his capacity for political discernment and conviction in this difficult matter where the public sphere has taken the industrialists out of the impasse as to the strategy to be adopted in terms, in particular, of financial risks. the 100% public funding, amounting to €3.4 billion, was made possible thanks to the will of all, in particular that of the european parliament: it is therefore also the representatives of the citizens who are at the origin of this way out of the crisis with a commissioning in 2014 and a deployment of satellites until 2013. this dossier shows the need to think quickly about the european means to be put in place to finance public investment operations when there is a failure of the private market.
in writing. it took eleven years of painful hesitation and political and administrative connivance to reach a solution for the creation of an independent european satellite radio navigation system. the delay is estimated at 5 years, due to the method chosen: public-private partnership, international cooperation beyond the european union, mandatory participation of all member states, imposed role of the european commission... if these principles and methods had been applied to technological and industrial ventures such as airbus or ariane, europe would probably not have its own aircraft manufacturer or space launcher today. the final result may not be entirely satisfactory, but it is nevertheless instructive. the launch of major strategic projects in new areas where the private sector cannot or will not take risks can only be achieved if the public authorities are the decision-makers and the exclusive financiers. because these are projects that are based on a political vision and not on pure economic logic. secondly, in this type of project, the mandatory passage through the community institutions and procedures has proved to be a brake and a negative factor, multiplying the ideological constraints, where intergovernmental cooperation has proved its effectiveness. let us hope that these lessons will be learned.
in writing. the roure report, like the directive it proposes to amend, is unacceptable. it is unconscionable to allow beneficiaries of international protection to be granted long-term resident status, even if only temporarily, without requiring them to meet any resource requirements or to integrate minimally, when this status can only be granted after 5 years of residence. the provisions also guarantee that such persons will not be expelled, including to another member state, unless they have committed a serious crime. the right of such persons to reside in the member state of their choice would thus become irrevocable, whatever their situation and social status. this prerogative was based on the right of the states to choose sovereignly who can live on their territory, under what status, and under what conditions compatible with public order and security. finally, as you all know, the application for international protection is being used to circumvent the already weak controls or restrictions on purely economic immigration. you know that subsidiary protection, in these circumstances, is often preferred to refugee status, because it is shorter and more flexible. if its beneficiaries can become long-term residents, it will be a new call to immigration.
in writing. while it is true that information, prevention and awareness-raising are essential in the fight against drug use to prevent the dangers of drug addiction to the physical and psychological health of users, unfortunately this is not enough. according to the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, more than 70 million europeans have already smoked cannabis and 60% of nightclub goers in france, italy and britain have used cocaine. it is therefore clear that the european information and communication strategies are totally ineffective, because, unfortunately, the supply and demand of drugs is increasing everywhere in france and in europe. no compromise is acceptable when it comes to drug use and sale. zero tolerance is the only effective policy. the disasters caused to thousands of victims by experimental drug liberalization policies will not be able to undermine this evidence.
in writing. as a fictitious socialist rapporteur, i have devoted a great deal of time and energy to this dossier in order to arrive at the substance, to explain the need for a deeper dialogue with civil society in the field of the fight against drugs, and to propose a text that is readable and understandable by all. i believe that civil society actors, with their experience on the ground and their capacity for innovation, can bring real added value to national and european policies, both in terms of prevention and information, and in terms of ending addiction and social reintegration. all these actions need to be taken at different levels: in the workplace, in schools, on the streets and even in prisons. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which welcomes the creation of the civil society forum on drugs and stresses the importance of enhanced cooperation between civil society and all the union institutions and bodies. the fight against drugs concerns us all, and those who are on the front lines of this fight, who work every day to help addicts and prevent more people from falling into addiction, must be privileged interlocutors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the adaptation of the multiannual financial framework on the basis of the report by my distinguished german colleague, mr reimer böge. this adjustment had become unavoidable due to the delay in the adoption of certain operational programmes under heading 1b and 2, eur 2 034 million in current prices of appropriations for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, rural development and the european fisheries fund which could not be committed in 2007 or carried over to 2008. it was therefore logical that, in accordance with point 48 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, this amount should be carried over to subsequent years by increasing the corresponding expenditure ceilings for commitment appropriations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my french colleague marie-arlette carlotti on the programming of the 10th european development fund (edf) and, as the report states, i regret that this fund is not budgeted in the union budget, thus allowing for democratic control. it is hoped that the edf budgeting issue will be brought up again in the context of the mid-term review of the financial perspective in 2009. as regards the edf and its contribution to poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), it is urgent to programme it and, therefore, to finalise the political agreements enabling its implementation. priority should be given to strengthening health care and basic education and, in addition, subsistence farming. at a time when the doha agenda is being driven by the world trade organisation (wto), it is becoming urgent for the european union to use its development instruments to participate in this ambitious, equitable and laudable drive to eradicate poverty in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my socialist colleague marie-arlette carlotti on the implementation of the 10th european development fund (edf) programming. the edf is the main community instrument for development cooperation assistance to the acp states (africa, caribbean and pacific). it is particularly active in the achievement of the millennium development goals, which were set in 2000 by the united nations. however, the 10th edf (2008-2013) is currently at an impasse: the revised cotonou agreement has not been ratified by some acp countries, and the €22.7 million available since 1 january 2008 has still not been used. the text adopted by parliament therefore urges the unblocking of the situation and sets out a number of complaints: priority should be given to poverty reduction (in particular health and education), specific consideration should be given to gender issues and a sustainable development strategy should be drawn up for the countries concerned. parliament also called for the edf to be integrated into the general budget of the union in order to strengthen the coherence of european policies and to guarantee democratic control of its management.
in writing. i voted in favour of the good own-initiative report by my portuguese colleague ana maria gomès on china policy and its effects on africa. while it is welcome that china is willing to provide concrete and pragmatic cooperation to african countries, there are many areas of concern such as china's cooperation with repressive regimes in africa, non-compliance with social and environmental standards, arms deliveries to repressive and undemocratic regimes etc. i support the proposal that the african union, china and the eu should set up a permanent consultative body to ensure the coherence and smooth functioning of the various cooperation actions and to define a general framework for the implementation of concrete operational projects on common challenges such as adaptation to climate change, renewable energy, agriculture, water or health issues. i also support the idea of initiating a dialogue between the chinese national people's congress, the pan-african parliament and the african national parliaments and our european parliament to promote sustainable development and to strengthen their capacity to scrutinise the executives in peace and democracy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the humanitarian and human rights situation in burma is deteriorating, as has just been said, and it will be the task of the next general affairs and external relations council to take note of this, loud and clear, and to redefine the means of action of european policy. what might have appeared at first as a positive signal, the famous constitutional reform, soon turned into a purely machiavellian project. the presence of the military in power will thus be constitutionalised outside of all international standards, in the absence of any observer, by excluding from the electoral body all those who are hostile to the government. it is a real masquerade that is being organized and is about to lock burma even more under the yoke of the junta. it must be said that this is a failure of the inclusive strategy, both internally and at the regional level, of the european union and the united nations. our envoy has not yet set foot in burma. today, our two-pronged policy of sanctioning and incentivising must therefore be made more effective and better targeted. this means better, more precise and more regular implementation of pre-defined criteria, strictly in line with the objectives pursued. our financial measures must lead to the total isolation of companies that are linked to the junta or that, in one way or another, participate in its financing, but also of people in power who still have a free hand to shop abroad and send their children to study in third countries. the same applies to banking prohibitions imposed on them, which as they stand do not in any way prohibit transfers via european banks. in the context of asean, the negotiations on the free trade agreement must be an opportunity to ensure that neighbouring states refrain from any strategy of circumventing sanctions against burma. the second element is incentive. at the same time, we must support the vital forces of the country. on the humanitarian side, of course, but also on the political side. this requires public condemnation of the burmese authorities, denunciation of the content and procedures of the referendum, and determined promotion of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms through the ieddh projects. by supporting and protecting human rights defenders, combating the recruitment of children into armed groups and protecting them from violence.
mr president, six months ago, protests in rangoon exposed to the world the serious human rights violations that are taking place regularly in burma. unfortunately, it seems that international opinion has already turned its eyes away from this country in crisis. the reality is that our support for the people of this country should be unwavering and follow a coherent long-term strategy, so that democracy and freedom of the press, of worship, of expression and of association are finally respected. despite diplomatic pressure, despite the exemplary action of aung san suu kyi, who, i remind you, was awarded the sakharov prize in 1990, despite the mobilization of international civil society, the situation has not improved. the 400,000 buddhist monks in the country, because they are not allowed to vote, will not be able to participate in this referendum. this unacceptable situation is proof that the pressure has not been enough. the sanctions against the burmese regime must be extended, while targeting the political elites rather than the population. but above all i hope that the eu's action will be strengthened. and to alert the public, i ask, we ask, that aung san suu kyi, who embodies this struggle, be made an honorary citizen of all european capitals. we will thus demonstrate our determination to promote human rights and freedom in burma.
madam president, commissioner, mr jacques, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently working on the major texts which should lead to a real change and, i dare say, a real change in the management of migration flows. i am thinking in particular of the return directive, the blue card directive, the directive on sanctions against employers and the directive on single procedures and the common base of rights. the legislative work in progress must be completed as soon as possible if we want to achieve real results that are visible to our fellow citizens and to third country nationals. we need to send a clear message. the question of immigration is taken very seriously by us as members of parliament. we must talk about the management of our external borders and the role of frontex in this area. frontex was not created to search for drowning people in southern europe. we did not create frontex to recover children from eastern europe who died of hunger and thirst, dragged by their parents on a long migration journey. frontex has a clear mission: to protect our borders to protect our citizens. the member states must therefore face up to their responsibilities and honour their commitments and make available to frontex all the means necessary to carry out its tasks under the best possible conditions. we must stop thinking that frontex's mission is temporary or one-off. the agency must be able to keep up with the phenomena it deals with: migration and illegal flows, organised crime, smugglers, trafficking of all kinds. the frontex agency must be at the heart of the wider project of border security and, as such, be linked to closer cooperation with the relevant high authorities. as is often the case, it is the main principles and political will that threaten the proper functioning of this agency: the principle of responsibility, the principle of solidarity, the principle of respect, commitments which must be reminded to each member state. i hope that the commission and especially the council will take our requests and concerns into account and not spoil the success of an agency that we need at european level.
i would like to say, commissioner, mr president of the council, that i am deeply shocked that people are being made to believe that empty bellies coming in looking for work to support their families who have stayed in the country are endangering our security. and i would like to remind our colleagues of the speech made by mr kofi annan when we awarded him the sakharov prize. he was asking us the opposite of what we're doing. on the contrary, he was asking us to open our borders. and when we look a little bit into the future, we know very well that we will need this workforce because we are going to run out of workforce in the european union. so what are we doing? we're building walls and we're going to choose who gets to go in because we're going to need them, so we're going to choose them. we cannot accept these things. we need to have a different policy, a policy that is open to these people. but what i would also like to know is: what does frontex intend to do, for example, in transit countries? and i will give you the example of mauritania, which i know because the european union sent me as head of an election observation mission. we have made a commitment to this poor country to help it in its democratic process. so now they have to manage these flows that go through to the canaries. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the greens/efa group mr president, this is not the first time that we have spoken about biodiversity and asked the council and the commission to defend it. it is good that we have succeeded in making climate change a priority for the european union, but we are still realizing that the conventions on biodiversity and the convention on desertification are somewhat overshadowed by climate change. we know how important biodiversity, or, in the final analysis, the protection of nature, is for our own survival because we see that despite what we have been able to do at european and global level, the erosion of biodiversity continues. the extinction of species continues. i think we have to face the obvious: while we can try to stop climate change, we cannot do the same for species. once a species is extinct, it's gone for good, gone forever. this question, this obviousness, we must really integrate it well. when we know, for example, that we have excellent tools such as natura 2000, the birds and habitats directives to combat the degradation of biodiversity in the european union, and when we realize today that there are still some member states that are reluctant to implement natura 2000, that we are reluctant to pay for natura 2000, we see that there is still a long way to go. that is why i really want the commission to continue to support natura 2000, to continue to support these two directives and, at the level of the bonn convention, i would of course ask you to set up criteria for biofuels, but also to call for and obtain the creation of an intergovernmental expert group on biodiversity, as is the case with the ipcc, for climate change, because we could help the parties to set up tools that we are setting up ourselves, but which they are not able to set up today.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the environment committee has adopted a very good resolution. i hope, therefore, that the european commission and the member states will take account of the various recommendations contained in it, including the call for initiative and conviction at the bonn conference. but also to act internally to halt the loss of biodiversity within the european union by 2010. i would like to address three of the points raised by this resolution. first of all, the question of agrofuels, a number of colleagues have already spoken about it. their environmental cost is considerable both for forests and agricultural land and we are increasingly measuring the impact of their development on food resources. there can be no competition between agricultural resources for food and those for industry, whether for the production of agrofuels or agrochemicals. the link between food and agriculture must be clearly established. then there is marine biodiversity. we've been very late on this. i can only support the demands in the resolution for very rapid action, particularly in the establishment of marine protected areas. finally, about the gmos. we now have studies showing their negative impact on the environment and in particular on the soil. we know that their spread leads to pollution of conventional crops, which poses a problem for the preservation of biodiversity. another problem is the concentration of industry in the seed sector and its control by a few multinational companies. this is a situation which the commission and the member states must not neglect. finally, the conference of the parties in curitiba, brazil, in march 2006 decided to maintain the moratorium on restrictive genetically modified seeds. it was a very good decision, but today it is questionable whether this moratorium is sufficient and whether it would not be necessary to ban the very use of this type of single-use gm seeds. what do the commission and the member states intend to do on these two points at the conference of the parties in bonn? do you also have any idea of the sustainability criteria that could be presented in bonn for biofuels?
the agenda calls for the report by mrs cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the way forward for reform of the world trade organisation (2007/2184 (ini)) (a6-0104/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, the doha round must be completed, but we must also start thinking again about how the wto works. it is faced with problems of efficiency, legitimacy and interaction with the other organisations in the multilateral system. in some respects it was inevitable that, a little over ten years after its creation, the mechanisms of its operation would have to be re-examined. the transition from gatt to the wto has not merely changed the dimensions of the multilateral trading system but, in some respects, its nature. trade rules have been extended to a considerable number of new areas: services, intellectual property, investment, rules on non-tariff barriers. new member states have joined those which were created, and this enlargement has introduced diversity, disparity of situations, of member states with different resources, with different problems, and so all this really requires that, in parallel with the efforts to complete the development round, the necessary reforms be discussed again. i would therefore like to welcome the work done with our rapporteur, mrs muscardini, the cooperation that has been possible with her and with the other groups, and i would like to stress several points in this report, which i consider extremely important and which i hope will be adopted very broadly by our assembly tomorrow. first, the balancing of international standards and the establishment of new relations between the wto and other international organizations. you will see that in this report we obviously mention the interaction with environmental issues, with health issues - as we have seen in the case of generic medicines and intellectual property, this is obviously decisive - but also the treatment of social issues. we cannot afford to ignore the wto debate on this subject. cooperation between the ilo and the wto, which has been re-engaged by the directors-general of these two organizations, must go much further and the european union must give an impetus to this end, and we propose two very concrete things: firstly, that the ilo be granted observer status in the wto, as is the case with the international monetary fund; secondly, that a committee on trade and decent work be set up within the wto - and the union should propose this - just as there is a committee on trade and the environment, which has made a great deal of progress on the interaction between environmental and trade rules. secondly, i would like to emphasize the aspects of the report which call for the wto to give the weakest member states, the least developed countries, more means to have an equal, effective and efficient participation in all the negotiations, in all the committees in which future agreements and trade policies are being drawn up. thirdly, we also insist on external transparency, on the possibility for civil society, for parliamentarians, for a truly living parliamentary dimension to develop within the wto. we are asking for a genuine parliamentary assembly. today there is an assembly of parliamentarians which meets next to the wto. the director-general comes to him and talks to him like the trade ministers, but we would like to see this recognised, and then we make very concrete proposals, for example on the appeal body and dispute settlement. we think that, as it is a court, a tribunal, well, these sessions should be public. documents should be publicly accessible. and i think it would also help to dispel some of the fantasies and make this organization more transparent. finally, we also insist on the secretariat's resources. that has been emphasized. the wto's budget is now $135 million. it is six times smaller than the imf, almost ten times smaller than the world bank. it has about 600 employees. this is still far less important than that of the other multilateral organizations. so i believe that strengthening the means of a wto that is better integrated into all the other multilateral organizations, more efficient for fairer trade, more transparent to be more legitimate, is also one of the conditions for better trade rules for development.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the only thing we will agree on is the urgent need to revolutionize the wto. the wto, like the imf, is an illegitimate, undemocratic and dangerous organization for the interests of the people. it was founded in its time to ensure the financial and industrial hegemony of the united states and the large transnational groups. the union has, of course, slavishly served this system, hoping to collect a few crumbs from the american master's feast. the unbridled free trade has now backfired on its promoters and the centre of gravity of the world economy has shifted from the west to asia, producing the worst financial and food crisis our planet has ever known. it is not often that countries which were yesterday classed as emerging economies, and which have now become predators, give up their predatory strategy in the name of some kind of benevolence, the entire international trade organization built around the wto encouraging them to persevere in this course. the rule known to all gamblers is to get rich as quickly as possible, by any means necessary, including speculating on medicines or foodstuffs of primary necessity. inequality has exploded in the union and the working and middle classes are becoming poorer. the food crisis affecting the poorest populations is a direct consequence of the wto's policy of destroying food crops in favour of export crops. biofuels are the easy scapegoat for a market system that must be revolutionised as soon as possible. i would like to denounce mr mandelson's irresponsible remarks calling for further deregulation of agricultural markets at a time when the world food programme is pointing to soaring food prices and saying that this is, i quote, a 'silent tsunami that threatens to drive tens of millions more people into hunger'. so does mr. mandelson want to go down in history books as the infamous "hungry man"? yes, the wto must be transformed to curb speculative behaviour, to favour producers rather than a minority of profiteers in the service of global finance, to encourage food and industrial sovereignty of the peoples and to encourage nations to cooperate rather than compete.
madam president, at a time when the doha round of negotiations is falling apart and getting bogged down, the question of how the wto should function is more important than ever. is it not possible to break the deadlock by reforming the wto? in the absence of agreement on the substance, can the process leading to such an agreement be encouraged? this revival of the wto seems possible and requires the strengthening of its functional and decision-making efficiency. two levels of reform are possible: those aimed at improving the negotiating procedure and those aimed at strengthening the legitimacy of the organisation, a key factor in its organisation. to do this, we must insist on the parliamentary dimension within the wto and give thanks to the legitimate representatives of the citizens that we are, and make the issues of globalisation more transparent and democratic. a great deal of work is also needed to ensure consistency between international policies. it is no use removing barriers at the frontiers if behind them there are still barriers to investment, social rights being flouted and environmental standards being ignored. an effective wto is therefore essential to guarantee the objective of increased trade and market-driven opening-up. and by rule i do not mean protectionist measures. indeed, unchecked liberalisation is not the solution to all the ills, especially those we are experiencing today, through the rise in the prices of agricultural raw materials and the resulting hunger riots. the falconer proposal to lower customs duties is unacceptable for our european agriculture and would have an underestimated impact on agricultural production in the poorest countries. the conclusion of the doha round therefore requires a rebalancing of the negotiations and a genuine reciprocity of market access commitments. we are not yet ready to sacrifice our agriculture and our role as contributors to food security in order to get a few industrial tariff cuts.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the debate this evening on the report by mrs muscardini on the reform of the world trade organisation. the food crisis that is now hitting developing countries hard is a perfect example of the urgency of better regulation of world trade. it must be supported by a reformed wto, capable of controlling the course of globalisation and promoting fairer trade rules. this crisis is not cyclical but structural. it is a sign that serious malfunctions are diverting world trade from what should be its primary objective, namely trade for the development of all, and particularly the poorest countries of the world. many elements have been put forward in an attempt to explain the origin of this crisis, and i do not doubt their relevance. but i think we should collectively ask ourselves a few questions. would this crisis have been as serious if the priorities of developing countries had been better addressed at the wto, if there had been better coordination between the wto and other international organisations such as unced and fao, if our free trade agreements had not encouraged developing countries to specialise in export monocultures at the expense of traditional food crops and their food self-sufficiency, if we had heard and supported african countries at the wto when they asked to include a commodity price action in the current round of negotiations? i would remind you that article 38 of gatt requires all wto members to stabilize and improve the situation on the markets for primary products, which are of particular interest to developing countries. in order to address the current dysfunction and to increase the effectiveness and legitimacy of the wto, this report proposes several ways forward. the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of human rights, including the european ombudsman, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of human rights. in order to ensure greater transparency of the debates and organisational work, better information, dialogue with the organisation and representatives of civil society, and the opening of the proceedings of the meetings to the public, in particular for the dispute settlement procedure, should be considered. finally, the parliamentary dimension of the wto, which guarantees democratic legitimacy and transparency in negotiations, must be strengthened. this includes the creation of a wto parliamentary assembly with consultative powers. beyond these measures, the very aims of the multilateral trading system need to be reviewed in order to ensure consistency with other international organisations. only reform undertaken in this direction will be able to conclude a doha round that is genuinely working towards development and the achievement of the millennium development goals. i would remind you that the first of these objectives is the eradication of poverty and hunger. but unfortunately, the news reminds us of our broken promises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, trade between nations is a good thing. free trade is desirable, but today the world has changed and the wto rules are inadequate and often need to be changed. the nature of international trade has indeed changed. yesterday, trade was based on complementarities, we sought what we did not have, exported what we had left over. this order has brought prosperity to the nations. but today, social dumping is the priority. we abandon what we know how to make in order to import what the other does cheaper, not because he is more productive but because he is less burdened, less taxed, less socially constrained. this wto order allows poor countries, poor countries in rich countries, to enrich rich countries in poor countries. it is less and less a system of solidarity, of mutualisms organized in nations, but an order that upsets nations and creates a conflict between the caste of the winners and that of the losers. so the rules of the wto must be changed. they must restore community preference and reconnect with the spirit of the treaty of rome, which established the common external tariff. it was not a protection for the frivolous, but a fair compensation for social dumping. the founding fathers weren't always wrong. the wto must take account of the erratic development of exchange rates in its assessment of trade constraints. it is unacceptable that the yuan remains low despite a very high external trade surplus. it is scandalous that eads loses a billion every time the dollar drops 10 cents against an ideological euro. in conclusion, the future of genuinely free trade reminds us that much more must be done before we can let go. on the one hand, we must restore the frontier as a condition for politics and therefore for the freedom of peoples, and on the other hand, we must subordinate the monetary and financial economy to the real economy, the productive economy which alone enables people to live here, now and freely.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the recent developments in the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the european union and the gulf cooperation council, by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0032/2008 - b6-0020/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european community and the gulf cooperation council has been the subject of negotiations since 1988 and it would appear that a final conclusion is approaching. i welcome the latest progress, because the conclusion of a free trade agreement is essential to intensify and regulate trade relations between the european union and the gulf states. they would thus open a new and more dynamic era of cooperation in many strategic areas between two regions of mutual vital importance, but whose relations suffer from a lack of substance. the free trade agreement should contribute to the dismantling of non-tariff barriers and the elimination of all public subsidies and compensation, in particular for access to raw materials, in accordance with current wto rules. the opportunities and challenges of the expansion of sovereign wealth funds should be the subject of substantive work, dialogue and constructive cooperation between the european parliament and the gulf states in particular. the aim is to maintain an open environment for investment while improving its transparency. this means that the managers of these funds must be able to increase the information they provide to the market on the origin of their resources, their investment objectives and their strategies. but europe must also be able to attract these funds, which are the vectors of growth, innovation and job creation, not forgetting the strong international competition for productive capital. the signing of the free trade agreement will encourage the gulf countries to be more receptive to the views of their european partners and will thus diversify and accelerate our exchanges and convergences.
madam president, the european union has been negotiating for almost 20 years now, as has been mentioned, the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the gulf cooperation council. since then, the commission's negotiating mandate has been only very slightly amended, without any real updating. the result is an astonishing situation, to say the least, where the union does not negotiate with the gulf countries on the basis of the same criteria as with its other trading partners, such as korea or the asean countries. in particular, the negotiating mandate does not provide for the inclusion in the future agreement of a clause on social standards or an ambitious chapter on sustainable development. the question of respect for human rights is hardly mentioned. since these elements must be among the priorities of european action, they should not only be fully integrated into the future free trade agreement, but also be the subject of suspensive clauses in the event of non-compliance with the commitments made. it is the responsibility of the union to ensure that democratic principles of human rights, international labour organisation conventions and environmental standards are promoted and respected in all trade agreements it negotiates. in the case of the gulf countries, special attention - as david martin has just pointed out - must be paid to the living conditions and rights of migrant workers, who are present in very large numbers in the region to support rapid growth, but often work in undignified and unacceptable conditions. more generally, beyond economic exchanges, which must be developed within the framework of harmonious trade relations, europe and its countries must strengthen their political and social dialogue. we must therefore implement a free trade agreement which not only does not have a negative impact on the people of this region but, on the contrary, strengthens their political, economic and social rights. this is why it is, for example, essential that in the negotiations on services, the need to guarantee a universal, accessible and sustainable public service at reasonable prices and meeting high quality standards for all is respected.
mrs. doyle, you had a motion of order.
mrs. doyle, you had the opportunity to do that. the only thing is, you didn't ask.
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for debate on the oral question to the commission on the zero tolerance regime for unauthorised gmos and its economic implications, by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0031/2008 - b6-0151/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this question, as its title suggests, deals with the economic consequences of the gmo authorization procedure. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether the commission has commissioned studies on the causes of the increase in feed prices and to find out how many imported feed quotas in recent years have shown traces of gmos not authorised in europe, and at what level. and i'd also like to know where these products came from. this would be useful in assessing the scale of these incidents. for my part, unlike mrs de lange, who has just spoken, i dispute the causal link established between the principle of zero tolerance for gmos and the considerable increase in food prices. we must not confuse the two, we know very well that this increase is due to a combination of several factors which i will not go into in detail, but above all to stock market speculation on agricultural futures markets. in fact, this increase affects all countries, including those with very flexible legislation on gmos. however, it is true that european farmers are in great difficulty, and the main reason for this is the situation of heavy dependence on massive imports of animal feed in which the european union finds itself. so the main question for me is: why are we so addicted and how do we respond? i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it has carried out an analysis of the economic consequences of the blair house agreements, which have deprived the european union of its own production of animal feed. to reduce this dependence, i think we could do two things. on the one hand, we must do everything we can to save the last european forage and protein crops and encourage their redeployment by avoiding, for example, a total decoupling of aid during the cap health check, especially since these crops have indisputable environmental qualities for crop rotations and therefore for the soil. the commission must also consider diversifying its sources of supply. i myself took part in a conference of the gmo free regions network in december 2007, which demonstrated that there is an offer of non-gmo food and that producers and importers need to be able to connect. i hope we are all aware that consumers have the right to... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, we can see that the issue of genetically modified organisms is a democratic emergency, an economic necessity and a legal imperative. i commend our committee on its approach to this subject. as far as our debate is concerned, we can see that the european union is highly dependent on imports of high-protein food. all this leads us back to scientific debates and the import of animals raised on feed which does not comply with european rules leads us to question the ability of the european union to protect our citizens. the protection regime is not protectionism, it is simply a question and i would like to ask the commission whether it considers that the quality of our customs system, which in my view has deteriorated considerably, can enable it to respond to all the considerations which give rise to this excellent debate.
i thank you, madam commissioner. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by anne ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper on market-based instruments for the environment and related objectives (2007/2203 (ini)) (a6-0040/2008).
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the fictitious rapporteurs and the opinion rapporteurs in particular for their very good cooperation. we can be satisfied today with the balanced report adopted by the committee on the environment, which is the result of a joint effort. the european union's commitment to the environment, both internally and internationally, is unquestionable. having set a number of objectives to respond to the environmental emergency we are facing, the european union must develop the means to achieve them. to this end, it has developed legislation which has been regularly revised over the years and which is applicable in its territory. it invests in research, raises public awareness and encourages good practice in the member states. today we are proposing to explore another avenue, that of market instruments. the report is based on the commission's book, which contains a number of proposals and reflections which i welcome. firstly, it seeks to enrich a text which is, in my opinion, a little too focused on climate change. the subject is certainly essential, but we must not neglect all the areas of human activity whose impacts on the environment are also very important. i also regret that i did not have the information from the consultation which could have helped us to complete our work. in the green paper, the commission proposes to achieve environmental objectives at a lower and more reasonable cost. this should be possible through economic instruments, which are also a flexible means of achieving the objectives set. the report also proposes that the commission draw up an action plan or other instrument for a market instrument for the environment. i would ask the commission to tell us how far it has come in its thinking and whether the results of the consultation it has had so far will confirm or alter the proposals contained in the green paper. i think that is a very important question. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and the establishment of a european environment agency. in other words, we must avoid being systematic and show a great deal of ingenuity. as regards specific instruments, which i do not have time to deal with here, i would like to stress the scepticism of our assembly regarding the proposal on biodiversity. the reason is simple. it seems to us difficult, if not impossible, to make a real contribution to a more or less rare ecosystem in another territory. secondly, as regards the internalisation of costs, this is a principle which we must support and take action on. at present, the environmental costs of human activities, especially industrial and economic, i.e. in more technical terms, the external costs, are only little or not taken into account. the transport sector is a good example of this. i have noted that the commission is due to propose in june a proposal for a revision of the so-called 'euro-vignette' directive, in particular by making the road transport charge variable. this principle of variability must be increasingly taken into account in the development of market instruments for the environment; the commission is also proposing the same thing in the field of energy taxation, namely a division into two components: one energy and the other environmental. the revision of this directive, if it achieves its aim, should also make it possible to restore the competitiveness of other modes of transport and to use less co2-emitting modes. finally, i would like to stress one point in particular: the question of the competitiveness of the european economy. we are of course in agreement, but the question that we can ask ourselves in this context is whether the cost of inaction would also be a social, economic, environmental and also a political cost.
mr president, yesterday in this parliament i was asked by a 16-year-old high school student: 'is europe prepared to make great sacrifices to save the planet?' this young high school student was very concerned about climate change and asked us how far we were willing to go. it was a reflection of anxiety, too, of a youth that carries an ideal and expects much from us. so we have market-based instruments that have been put in place: the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, or, in the field of transport, the 'eurovignette' directive. these instruments have advantages because they add value to environmental costs and contribute to the achievement of environmental objectives, at lower cost, and encourage companies to commit to longer-term, and this ultimately supports employment. these instruments can help to reduce the adverse effects that environmental taxes could have on the competitiveness of certain sectors. the approach to promoting sustainable development and combating climate change must not only be a deterrent, through taxes and fees, but an incentive by facilitating a faster transition to virtuous behaviour, behaviour that is environmentally compatible. the effort must be made by all, hence the need to internalize environmental costs. it is important to emphasize that environmental taxes should not be seen as a means of increasing tax revenue but as a means of preventing harmful pollution or environmental degradation at a reasonable cost. finally, in the future discussions in the european parliament on the energy-climate package, the introduction of a border adjustment instrument, in particular to avoid possible carbon leakage, will have to be seriously considered. the obligation to reduce co2 emissions while preserving economic competitiveness must be ensured, and in this way i stress the importance of the carbon tax. it is often a taboo subject, but i still find it interesting and worth studying.
the rapporteur. - thank you, commissioner, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your very rich and very interesting speeches. we have understood that the debate on taxation is not closed and i will allow myself, at this stage of the debate, to mention three points. first, the share of energy taxes, which represents on average 76% of environmental taxation, compared with 21% for transport. secondly, households, which bear a very large share of environmental taxes, while other economic sectors are the main consumers of energy, water and transport. thirdly, the share of environmental taxes in the gdp of the member states has decreased over the last five years. this also provides us with some prospects for future reflections. of course, i regret the epp's request for paragraph 26, in which we proposed a minimum community co2 tax. i think we must make progress on this if we are to combat the various forms of dumping within the european union. it is not a question of substituting ourselves for the member states in their fiscal powers, but of having a minimum of fiscal harmonization, as is necessary and as has been stressed. beyond the member states' call for progress on tax coordination, i would also like to stress another point in the report: the reduction in taxation on labour cannot be linked to the reduction in environmental taxation alone, as the commission proposes. in my view, it must be part of a more comprehensive reform, with principles of solidarity and social justice. i know that this is not yet a matter for the member states, but let us think about it and give the member states some information. the last point raised which seems to me to be important is the size of the households. the measures we take here should not weaken households with already low incomes and put other households in a precarious situation. i would like to conclude by thanking you, madam commissioner. please know that we will be at your side in the development of future legislation on these matters.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, commissioner, for finding a way to come to strasbourg. i am grateful to the rapporteur, including you in your bavarian costume, because i think we have worked very well together, and the way in which the amendments of each side have been incorporated in your report is the translation. i would like to address three issues in relation to accounting standards. first of all, it seems to me that in terms of governance, in terms of the functioning of the body responsible for setting these accounting standards, we are in a particular context. there are many standardizations. not all of them have an impact on financial stability or on issues of power and governance as strong as the history of accounting standards. we are now experiencing a major episode of it in a way, a transition into adulthood. when it came to drawing up these accounting standards, whether auditors did it among themselves, they basically prepared the ground very well. today, these accounting standards are part of an international dimension. they are intended to be used and applied by all, and therefore the question of governance becomes a major one. how does the body responsible for setting these accounting standards fit into international governance, with regard to democratic bodies, with regard to bodies legitimately representing the powers of states, and in particular the european union? the second issue we have to deal with in terms of governance is obviously the question of the balance of these bodies. what is the geographical balance, what is the balance in the representation of those who not only write the standards but also those who will have to use them? the third question we have to raise is the question of funding. how are these bodies financed? can the idea of a levy on companies, which would be centralised by regulatory bodies, be useful? can public financing, by the european community, be envisaged? we hope that you will make some strong proposals on this, commissioner. the fourth question, which concerns these bodies, is the programme. is it right for these bodies to develop the notion of fair value when we know the financial stability issues that this can have? is it right for this body to develop an sme programme which europe does not need? is it normal that, on these sme issues - because, as our rapporteur has said, south africa or australia may need them - you, commissioner, do not organise the european voice in these bodies? we absolutely need, as the next step, europe to organise its capacity to be present to represent the strength of all member states and the voice of europeans, within the iasb, within the iascf and within ifric; it is your responsibility, commissioner. we are waiting for your strong proposals in this respect.
madam president, i am surprised at this late request from the liberal group, which does not correspond to the agreement reached between the groups in the committee on international trade at the time of the vote on this report. we will therefore oppose this request. we believe that the proposal contained in this paragraph, which is to give the poorest small developing countries the opportunity to collect the fines imposed by the wto on the large developed countries, is a request that deserves the support of the european parliament.
in writing. it proposes nothing more or less than the transformation of the wto into a new centre of global governance, with a secretariat whose role and prerogatives would be strengthened on the model of the brussels commission (staff, right of initiative, etc.), a parliamentary assembly, etc., all in coordination with the other bodies that claim to manage the world. paradoxically, it advocates consensus, i.e. unanimity, which, i quote, "guarantees, in contrast to the majority or qualified majority, the equality of all members". but this equality is being trampled underfoot in the european union. paradoxically, he is asking that trade negotiations and dispute settlement should clearly include social, environmental and 'humanitarian' considerations, but that accession requests should be examined only from a commercial point of view! a kind of a posteriori justification of this parliament's massive approval of china's entry into the wto, while it is now complaining about the social dumping practiced by that country, not to mention its repeated violations of human rights.
in writing. the issues raised by mr radwan's report seem very technical but they are crucial. yes, public authorities must have a say in the definition of accounting standards, since they have an impact on all economic actors and even on the tax revenues of the states. it is not healthy for a private body to be established as a de facto legislator, without any political control. the iasb's technical legitimacy is increasingly being called into question because of its more theoretical than professional approach to the issues it deals with. on the other hand, its geographical and occupational composition is not very good. yes, new standards should only be adopted if they are useful, necessary and after a rigorous cost-benefit analysis. yes, the iasb's role should be limited to listed companies and should spare smes. the principle of fair value, on the other hand, favours a short-term approach and gives financial results a predominant role in the management of companies. it aggravates the financialisation of the economy and the volatility of markets. the european union must refuse to apply this standard. but the rapporteur's position on this subject is not very clear. that is why we abstain on his report.
the agenda calls for six motions for resolutions on zimbabwe.
the rules of procedure say, in principle, "no more than two minutes", but i have a third speaker; i'll give him the floor.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have followed with interest the debate in this house and i welcome the resolution that will be voted upon shortly. first of all i would like to recall the commission’s continued commitment to the people of zimbabwe. in this sense, i also would like to emphasise that the european union remains the most important donor to zimbabwe and we are willing to continue playing this role. the situation in zimbabwe, notably following the 29 march elections, is a major preoccupation and, like the european parliament, the commission follows events very closely. we are working closely with member states, both in zimbabwe and here in europe, to coordinate action at the level of the european union. we believe that zimbabweans and the neighbouring states are the main players in finding a solution to the crisis and consequently we encourage the regional peers of zimbabwe to play a crucial role. therefore the commission supports ongoing regional efforts and the conclusions of the sadc summit, held on 13 april in lusaka, calling for the release of the presidential election results and, in the event of a run-off, the appeal made to the government of zimbabwe to ensure a secure environment. we also welcome the redeployment by the sadc of an electoral observation mission to cover the ongoing electoral process immediately and until its completion, while regretting that the eu has not been invited to deploy its own election observation mission. in the framework of his participation in the sadc summit on poverty, held in mauritius on 19 april, commissioner michel took the opportunity to meet most presidents or prime ministers from sadc member states to discuss the crisis in zimbabwe. he thanked them for their efforts and encouraged them to strengthen their engagement to find acceptable solutions. i would like to confirm the commission’s willingness to continue to make use of any opportunity for dialogue in order to find a solution to the zimbabwe crisis. in the meantime, the commission and member states continue to provide unprecedented levels of humanitarian aid to zimbabweans.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of khadijeh moghaddam.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission shares members’ concern regarding ms khadijeh moghaddam and the cases of women and human rights defenders harassed by the iranian authorities. ms moghaddam is a leader of the one million signatures petition campaign, which lobbies to change iranian laws which contradict the principles of gender equality and human rights. we welcome the news of ms modghaddam’s release, albeit on a high bail. however, we must underline the fact that two other members of the signature campaign, ms hana abdi and ms ronak safazadeh, have been detained since autumn 2007. moreover, we deplore the recent sentencing of four more members of the campaign for allegedly acting against national security, following their participation in a rally outside a tehran courtroom two years ago: ms zeynab peyghambarzadeh to two years’ suspended imprisonment and ms nashrin afzali, ms nahid jafari and ms minoo mortazi to six months’ suspended imprisonment and 10 lashes. we vigorously condemn such sentences, which can only be seen as part of the ongoing effort to intimidate and humiliate these peaceful women campaigners. the campaign for women’s rights and equality is very important and significant in the iranian context. each of these courageous women deserves our full support. i call on the iranian authorities to release unconditionally ms abdi and ms safazadeh and drop all charges against them and their fellow women’s rights campaigners. alas, many other human rights defenders are at risk in iran. i specifically call on the authorities to release unconditionally mr mansour ossanlou and mr emadedin baghi and to end the harassment, intimidation and political persecution of human rights defenders. the commission reiterates its concern about the closure, two months ago, of the independent women’s magazine zanan. the commission appeals to the iranian authorities to re-allow the publication of zanan. the eu will consider iran’s attitude towards zanan, as well as towards the women’s campaign for equal rights, as an indicator of its willingness to seriously engage in the improvement of the human rights situation. we call on the islamic republic of iran to fully comply with its obligations under international conventions, notably the international covenant on civil and political rights. we also recall that, when standing for election at the un human rights council, iran affirmed that it was considering accession to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. the european union has raised issues relating to human rights, including women’s rights and the promotion of gender equality, with the iranian authorities and will continue to do so. without a systematic improvement of the human rights situation in iran, our relations with iran cannot develop properly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on chad.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 february 2008, according to corroborating evidence, omar mohamed saleh was arrested at his home by armed men in uniform. since then, there has been no official news, and his family and political friends fear that he was executed coldly after his arrest. this lack of information cannot continue and president idriss déby must share the information he has. we therefore ask, and particularly urge the french authorities, who have provided the known assistance to the chadian president, to shed light on the disappearance of mr mohamed saleh, for whom we are deeply concerned, and on the fate of all the other political prisoners. this cannot in any way conceal the tragic situation of over four million people caught between two fires. it is therefore imperative that dialogue be established between all parties - the chadian government, opposition and rebels - as they have committed to it, with a view to free elections in accordance with international standards in 2009. the eufor mission is to maintain peace between chad and sudan and to ensure the security of humanitarian operations for refugees everywhere. this mission cannot succeed without the active participation of all the countries of the european union. on the other hand, eurofor includes a large contingent of french forces, so it is essential to establish the separation between the french épervier plan and the european forces. and it is imperative for the lives of millions of refugees in a first emergency, but also in the longer term for the fate of the countries of the central african republic, that political stability be regained through the silencing of arms, the reestablishment of dialogue and respect for human rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, we fully support the call of members for a restoration of the political process in chad and for a diplomatic resolution to the tensions between chad and sudan. concerning the internal political process, we welcome the nomination of a new prime minister, mr abbas. in our view, his declaration of 18 april was a first promising signal which could lead to the normalisation of the relations between the government and the non-armed opposition. we are, therefore, hopeful that the constitution of the new, inclusive government of 23 april, where four key ministerial posts have been given to non-armed opposition parties coming from la coordination des partis politiques pour la défense de la constitution (cpdc), will pave the way for the relaunching of a more comprehensive dialogue on the basis of the political agreement of 13 august 2007. commissioner michel was amongst the first to express concern about the disappearance of members of the opposition following the attempted coup of early february and to call for the immediate release of any opposition leaders held in custody by the chadian authorities. like many of the speakers today, we are still vocal concerning the need to shed light on the situation of mr ibni saleh, spokesperson of the cpdc. in this regard the european commission, through its role as an international observer to the national commission of inquiry, is seeking to develop clarity about these disappearances, which will help engender trust in the political process. with regard to the political process, through our 10th european development fund and instrument for stability we are developing chad’s capacity to hold legislative elections in late 2009, as envisaged by the 13 august 2007 agreement. this includes support for electoral preparations and the conducting of a national census. chad has also been included as a country to be followed up in view of a possible eu election observation mission in 2009, if all conditions for such a deployment are met. concerning the relations between chad and sudan, the issue of the rebel groups can only be considered as part of the wider situation, and we are encouraged by the recent libreville meeting of the contact group established under the dakar accord between chad and sudan. we believe that such sustained diplomatic efforts are essential to calm down the two countries. our humanitarian assistance in east chad is ongoing (an average of eur 30 million each year), and needs are adequately covered. nevertheless, to complement humanitarian aid and the increase in security of refugee and internally displaced people camps that the eufor/minurcat deployment will bring, our programme d’accompagnement à la stabililisation de l’est du tchad will support the conditions in areas to which internally displaced persons and refugees may choose to return in eastern chad and northern central african republic, with particular regard to access to drinking water and food security. activities will start under this programme before the rainy season commences. in view of the success of the minurcat mission as crucial to safeguarding the long-term stability and development of chad, as seen in our eur 10 million contribution to the minurcat operation, we are encouraged that training has started for the first 77 commanders of the détachement intégré de sécurité. to help embed progress, our 10th european development fund will include eur 25 million in support of reform of the justice sector, including the development of the police force, as well as an additional eur 25 million for security sector reform.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
your presence is absolutely noted.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for this communication, for this opportunity to take stock of progress and to look at what we need to do for tomorrow. the euro is a success, no doubt about it. the euro has protected us. what would have been the situation of our financial markets, of our currencies, in the turbulence of the world today if we had not had the euro? but this success is our obligation. it requires us to be even bolder, because we are not just a monetary area, we have a special responsibility. yes, the euro is a success and yet it carries with it some of our inherent flaws. we're better at defending than we are at attacking. we are sometimes better at counting the points, as the stability pact allows us to do, but when it comes to organising the best possible game, to maximising the potential of a single currency, a common currency, we are sometimes below optimum. it's true on the inside. why are we not using our currency to strengthen our capacity to implement a lisbon strategy? why are we not using our currency to strengthen our capacity to implement the energy or environmental goals we have set ourselves? you mentioned it outside, and i agree with your diagnosis. you are proposing mechanisms to improve multilateral surveillance, and you are probably right, but on the basis of two assumptions. the first is that the long-term presidency of the eurogroup, under the leadership of jean-claude juncker, has improved the functioning of the eurogroup. the independence of the central bank is not in question and cannot be questioned by anyone. on the basis of these two assumptions, we have a lot to do, and i am counting on you, commissioner, to restore the balance to this economic and monetary union, which remains unbalanced, and whose economic arm, as we know from day one, needs to be improved and to find ways of reforming it as we go along. after ten years, we still have a lot to do. today, the same questions we have been asking ourselves since the beginning are being asked again, in a very different context, of course. we must clarify this context in the light of two major phenomena. the first, of course, is the crisis that has come to us from the united states, which is a reflection of the second age of globalisation, one in which the question of inflation is back, one marked by a threatening american recession, marked by an exchange rate between the euro and the dollar that is unfavourable to our exports - even if it has other advantages - and which is also marked by an incredible rise in commodities, oil and food products. the second element of context that we must take into account is the treaty of lisbon, which changes the game for the eurogroup, which gives it new responsibilities in external representation, in coordination. we must take this into account and exploit the full potential of this treaty. commissioner, you are asking us to help to achieve a consensus. if the consensus is good, we'll be there. but we also think that perhaps we need to go further, with concrete proposals. i understand that you would like to receive a road map from the council. that's good! but then, tell us under what conditions this european parliament will be heard in the proposals it makes to improve the governance of the euro, so that the potential of this currency is put to the full use of the citizens and so that tomorrow our central bank will be better accepted by our fellow citizens. the fact that it has become an institution may well justify a re-examination of the conditions for the appointment of its members. you know, this house is a house that has been acquired by you, which is the commission's ally when the commission wants to go forward, but we will also be a demanding ally. don't listen to the council; i would also like to ask you to take account of the good proposals that may come from the european parliament, whatever the wording of the treaties.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope i am not overstaying my time any more than mr klinz has overstayed his. i shall not go into the very great success of the euro, both as an institution and as an instrument for stabilising inflation. but i thank you, commissioner almunia, and i thank the commission, for finally breaking a taboo. after ten years, it's time to see what didn't work. what has not worked, as you said, is that the growth promised by the euro has not been delivered. worse, the countries of the european union that are not part of the euro have experienced higher growth than those that are. so there is a real problem in the construction of the euro, as it was done with the maastricht agreement, and we must tackle it. i see three points. the first point you made was the need for governance reform, with coordination between budgetary and monetary policy. it is obvious - and i disagree with mrs berès on this point - that we cannot say at the same time that there must be more coordination between the two and that the central bank must remain totally independent. or else it means that budgetary policy, in turn - that is to say the ecofin council - becomes itself an independent institution no longer subject to democratic accountability. that would be totally unacceptable. the word 'independent' therefore needs to be defined. independent from what? in relation to private interests, yes, in relation to national interests, yes, but not in relation to the general budgetary and economic policy of the union. the second problem is that maastricht gave the council the task of monetary policy, whereas the instrument of monetary policy is the interest rate, and the interest rate is the european central bank. it must therefore be made very clear that the european central bank, in terms of exchange rates, must make its interest rate subject to the exchange rate policy defined by the council. thirdly, in the face of the subprime crisis, we have learned that there are different types of credit. but that was not in the maastricht treaty. i think it should be very clear that the credits needed for sustainable development and for real mobilization to avoid climate change must be issued at extremely low rates of interest.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i too speak on behalf of the delegation; i am in fact the chairman of the european parliament's delegation to the three caucasus countries. you are right that the situation is worrying and serious, and i believe that we cannot stand by and watch this escalation of provocations taking place. i would almost call it the annexation of one country by another. when russia withdraws from the cis sanctions regime in march, it opens up the possibility of military assistance to abkhazia. on 16 april, russia legalized the bilateral relations and official documents of abkhazia and south ossetia. does this not mean, indirectly, recognition of these two separatist regions? and, of course, on april 24th, russia unilaterally increases the number of troops and sends in armed equipment. we don't know. even the un in the region today does not know how much russia has increased its peacekeeping forces. and as my colleagues have told us, we were in gali last week and apparently there is no justification for increasing these troops, from 2,000 troops present to 3,000. for those of you who are not aware, this agreement dates back to 1994, when russia offered to mediate and to send peacekeepers to the abkhaz territory, between the abkhaz zone and the abkhaz zone where georgian populations are located, and today, when the cis is talking about diversity, only russian troops are present. as a mediator, we can ask ourselves: what is the result of this mediation? i'll ask the question of our responsibility. of course, i've heard all your proposals, but i believe that today we must stop this escalation of violence. i have also heard the last two statements by the council. the european union is only supporting the restoration of confidence. minister, there is no trust in the territory today. there's not even any dialogue. abkhazia broke off the dialogue with georgia in 2006. the commission is also involved in the communication of the european union. it says that the european union will only engage in this conflict if both sides present so request. i'll tell you what, it never will. russia will never ask us to help solve the problem, because russia has always said that it is not a party to the conflict. the question now arises as to the european union's responsibility. when you also announce the support of the un, we know very well that at the un it is completely blocked, it is also a failure, since when the call for a resolution at the un was made, russia did not respond. so russia is blocking too. i believe that we have enough arguments here and the opportunity to help in a much more concrete way, because we are no longer in the process of resolving the conflict; we are in the process of resolving the conflict. we are in the middle of a conflict. we must therefore act and that is why we are considering, in the resolution we voted in tbilisi last week, for example, to propose to russia that it share the burden of peacekeeping by sending a civilian peace corps there. and i think we need to remember the balkans. i think history will not forgive us a second time for our inaction. the balkan war was supposed to be the last, and i believe it is up to us to defuse the conflict in the south caucasus.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, you are right. after the failure of previous attempts, this one aims to improve our transatlantic relations on a case-by-case legislative basis. but there is one dimension which is obviously missing from our examination of the situation today: the whole context in which this debate takes place. case by case, we can see what progress has been made on this or that legislation on both sides of the atlantic. but what about the fundamental discussion we must have with our american partners about the situation, the risk of this economy entering recession, the difficulty of organizing decoupling in relation to this entering recession, the question - of course - of the exchange rate? the purpose of this resolution is not to deal with the exchange rate, and yet we are well aware that the state of transatlantic relations will depend largely on our ability to readjust trade on the international stage. and then, when we look at the state of the discussion with our american friends in the legislature, case by case, we are also allowed to intervene on issues that may not fall within the scope of the transatlantic dialogue within the council that you helped to set up. i will take just one example: the situation in the housing markets. of course, it is up to the us legislation to see how to improve their capacity to distribute housing loans that correspond to the reality of the needs and borrowing capacity of the american people and to take into account the reality of what social housing finance means. however, we europeans know that the restoration of normal conditions for the functioning of the financial markets depends to a large extent on a return to normalcy in the us financial market. so in our dialogue with our american partners we must also stress these elements which depend on their ability to change their legislation.
madam president, commissioner, the transatlantic economic dialogue is taking place in the context of a triple crisis: the global banking and financial crisis, which is still not over, the food price crisis and, finally, the persistent crisis in the price of oil. the whole of these shocks are part of a global context of global warming and climate change which calls for a reversal of cycles and a questioning of certain dogmas on which we have based the prosperity of western societies. can the strengthening of transatlantic relations serve such an objective? i believe that, even if it's difficult, complex and conflicting. and this resolution outlines some answers that resonate with the demands and aspirations of european and american public opinion. the first is not to reduce our ambition to the creation of a transatlantic free trade area, but to work concretely to ensure that the development of our trade serves other, more virtuous objectives, in favour of social and environmental standards. in this respect, the resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow is balanced. it recalls that so-called barriers to trade between the eu and the us are often laws that have a specific social, environmental, cultural or public health purpose, and that these barriers cannot be removed without democratic decision-making and positive legislative action that safeguards these objectives. the text also encourages the european union to draw inspiration from certain bilateral trade agreements signed by the usa, which contain specific specifications on labour law. it is for these reasons, among others, that i believe this resolution is useful for the transatlantic dialogue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on european works councils was a pioneering one when it was adopted in 1994. although it only laid down minimum requirements, it paved the way for the right to information and consultation of workers at the level of european-sized groups and was one of the founding elements of a european labour law. but today it has fallen behind the developments in the reality of the enterprise, the financialisation of their governance, and it is even behind the other directives on information and consultation of workers which have been adopted since then. it is therefore absolutely necessary to revise it, to ensure that, in groups of european size, timely information and quality consultation make it possible to find alternatives when workers are faced with decisions on restructuring, closures of sites and massive job cuts. we have seen too many abrupt decisions on collective redundancies in recent years without workers being consulted, without their representatives having a say. sometimes employees hear on the radio that they are going to be fired. their representatives are informed only a few minutes before the decision is made public, usually at the opening hours of the stock exchanges. all of this therefore underlines the urgency of a revision. moreover, this revision was foreseen in the text of the original directive itself, and in the year 2000 there was to be an update of the mechanisms of this directive. since then, however, businesseurope - which was then unice - has tried everything possible to block this revision, to ensure that the consultation does not lead to anything. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, mr bushill-matthews, i, who was rapporteur for the european parliament with others here in 2001, who helped to get an ambitious request for revision of this directive adopted by an overwhelming majority in our assembly, as was the case again in 2007, cannot accept that the european trade union confederation should be called into question. she's in good faith, she's willing to negotiate. and if this consultation and negotiation does not lead to anything, it is up to the commission to exercise its right of initiative. the commission has a monopoly on the right of initiative. we respect that. but it also creates a responsibility for the european union to defend the general european interest, to not allow it to be held hostage by particular interests, to ensure that the workers of our continent can rely on the european commission to defend the right to consultation, to information, in good time, so that a real european social dialogue can take place in the large european groups.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, eight years ago the commission published a report, provided for in the 1994 directive on european works councils, in which it acknowledged that the application of this text in some cases - and i quote - 'seems to ensure a very low level of information and consultation of these committees'. it concluded - and i quote it again - that it would 'take a decision at the appropriate time on a possible revision of the directive'. eight years ago. then four years passed, with no result. in 2004, the commission finally launched the first phase of consultation of the social partners. then four more years were lost, and this while the position of each was perfectly known and did not change. for employers' organizations, any revision of the directive is - i quote them - "useless", while for trade unions, it is - i quote them - "vital". i would add that the commission itself acknowledged that in 2006 only one third of the companies had set up such a committee, that 20% of the existing european works councils were consulted only after the public announcement of management decisions and that 30% were not consulted at all. and in the meantime, mergers, restructurings, relocations were exploding. today, at last, we are out of this unjustifiable hibernation. there are proposals on the table. they are so timid that businesseurope, which is opposed to the revision, has welcomed it as - and i quote - "less prescriptive than inspirational", but at least the debate can be opened. the ball is now in the court of parliament, which is not starting from scratch. i would remind you that as far back as 2001, our epp colleague at the time, mr menrad, had a report on this subject adopted. it stated, among other things, the requirements for strengthening the directive - i quote - 'the introduction of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the text' - specific and heavy sanctions - and the right to suspend management's decision at the request of the workers' representatives, or 'strengthening the role of the trade unions'. our group will vote in favour of adopting these proposals from the former epp report, which was the majority in 2001, and suggests that they be clarified in two particular areas. firstly, the european works councils must have access to the group's strategic information so that the consultation is not purely formal and, above all, they must have a right to suspend any restructuring plan not just to postpone it, but to carry out a counter-expertise, present counter-proposals and participate in real negotiations. we have only a short time before us. the end of the legislature is approaching. i think this is the moment of truth.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the reports proposed are very precise, they are documented. i believe that they are a convincing indication of the capacity of parliament today to assess the union's policy on human rights and democracy. guidelines, dialogues and consultations, action plans, the human rights clause, election observation missions, these instruments are fully evaluated, and the steps that remain to be taken are also clearly identified, whether it be the establishment of human rights strategies by country, precise indicators to assess situations or the consultation of parliament to trigger appropriate measures in the implementation of the human rights clause. these objectives are, i believe, well known to both the commission and the council and will remain on the agenda of our discussions. specific requests are also made to the member states. we deplore in particular the fact that many international conventions and additional protocols are still not ratified by many of them: the convention on the rights of migrant workers and their families, the optional protocol to the convention against torture, the convention on enforced disappearances and other instruments, such as ilo convention 169. ratification of these would be an honour for the states and the union as a whole. there are also more difficult and recurring issues, which the international situation inevitably brings back to the heart of our concerns: these are those concerning a comprehensive and integrated approach to human rights in all the union's policies. yes, the asylum and immigration policy pursued by the union and the states is leading to massive violations of human rights, particularly at our external borders. yes, large european companies are tolerating or causing direct violations of social rights or the right to a healthy environment. the union must move towards a regulatory framework which makes its activities compatible with respect for human rights. yes, the food crisis is a challenge to our agricultural and energy policies. the impact of climate change on human rights is also clear. the rights to life, health, housing, food, are at the top of the list of violations. our ambition is a comprehensive and integrated policy. work on the implementation of the lisbon treaty has begun. it will mark a further step in our commitment to human rights. this commitment must be guaranteed by a more substantial and coherent human rights organisation and resources. the european external action service, for example, will have to include in its composition a section devoted to the transversal aspect of human rights. the european parliament itself will have to take the initiative. a fully-fledged parliamentary body is highly desirable for this purpose.
mr president, i think this is the right day to reflect on the importance of elections and observation missions. this very morning we have heard another set of results from the usa. there i think the election has been going on for ages, and we still do not know who the democratic candidate for the presidential elections is. i think it will be obama, but they will not ask me. while this thing has been going on for months in the usa, there were elections in russia, and today mr putin, i should say, handed over the presidency to mr medvedev. i should say that mr medvedev was inaugurated, but that would not really be the right description, because when mr medvedev was campaigning, he took one single day for his campaign – that is what the kremlin press communiqué said. it even specified that this day was unpaid. how can you run an election campaign if you do it in one day? you can do it when you know that you are going to get 17 times more tv coverage than all the other three candidates put together. so that is the sad score in russia. the russian people deserve more. this is not kremlin-bashing. we have to speak out for the russian people and for those people in any other country where people do not yet have a democracy in the way we understand it. are these observation missions important? yes, they are very important, because they are all about democracy building, which is our foremost mission in this house. mr salafranca and mrs de keyser have produced a very good report, but we simply have to pursue this issue. the eu still has to be much stronger. we cannot be silent, because we owe it to the people who do not yet have a democracy.
mr. president, thank you for supporting gender equality. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the three reports, but also simply to stress the importance of the observation missions we are carrying out around the world. i think it is worth repeating that these are particularly positive activities and that they really need to be promoted among our fellow citizens, especially perhaps in the pre-electoral period. let me also pay tribute to all those observers, because in the end, if we, as heads of mission, are present on the ground, if we also go on observation missions, we also have hundreds of experts, young and not so young, present all over the world who, in a generous way, will support democracy in other countries. i think that this is not said enough, because without this network of observers we would not have these excellent observation missions. i would also like to mention the enthusiasm with which the people welcome these observers, especially long-term observers, who stay for a while in the area. i regret, however, that my colleagues did not support my amendment to increase the budget, because i think that the more expertise we have in electoral missions, the more the european union will be called upon to do so. it would be a real pity if we were unable to meet these requests from countries because of lack of funds.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when there is a lot of talk about asia, china and the problems we are facing, and the very deadly cataclysm in burma, on another level, the report discussed this evening is essentially the response of the citizens of the union, represented by our parliament, to the commission's communication on the new strategy for the union's bilateral and interregional trade negotiations. and it is an open door to say that the association of southeast asian nations is a group of ten states whose level of development, both economic and political, is particularly contrasting, as our rapporteur has just reminded us. the trade agreement currently under discussion is aimed at a market of eur 57 billion, with a growth rate of 4.9% per annum, i.e. a very large potential for development. and while the union's trade policy, which requires a trade agreement between our two regional groups, seems obvious, we must jointly stimulate growth and job creation and remain very realistic about the difficulties. however, while the globalisation of the economy should be seen as a chance for the economy of our continent and for others, our fellow citizens are often very worried. the perverse, marginal effects of globalisation, too many for those who experience them personally, often obscure the positive effects that should be generated by intelligently negotiated trade agreements. the report therefore aims to send the european commission strong signals that citizens' concerns will be taken into account in the negotiations with asean. we must therefore achieve a balance which will enable our partners to achieve a satisfactory level of economic, social and political development without encouraging distortions of competition and dumping. i would like to emphasize only three points which seem to me to be of priority. firstly, from a strictly commercial point of view, it should be stressed that any trade agreement can only be concluded in the context of mutual respect for the rules of international trade, which is understood as respect for the rules of competition law and respect for intellectual and commercial property rights. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and we are convinced that the european union will continue to play a leading role in the fight against terrorism. secondly, on the social front, it is clear that agreements cannot ignore differences in social levels. our partners must commit themselves to the ilo minimum standards, including the fight against child labour and improving working conditions and pay. thirdly, and lastly, and of course to conclude, it is also very important, as we have done in the various speeches this evening, to stress that any trade agreement must incorporate the necessary requirements in terms of economy and sustainable development. southeast asia is one of the jewels of our planet, and we must work together to preserve its fauna and flora, and the commission must obtain guarantees in the fight against illegal logging and the management of fishing quotas, as the commissioner has just said.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the fictitious rapporteur for the opinion of the itre committee, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr glyn ford, first of all on his ... (inaudible) on two points which i think should be emphasized. firstly, counterfeiting, in particular the counterfeiting of medicines, which is a real danger, a real danger first of all to the smooth running and calm climate of economic and trade relations with the countries of south-east asia, but also and above all to consumers, whether in terms of safety in general or in terms of product quality. it is therefore necessary to emphasize the need to prevent all forms of counterfeiting by means of the binding instruments contained in the agreements. i would like to emphasize once again the need to combat counterfeiting of medicines with this dual motivation: to protect consumer safety and to protect the pharmaceutical sector from unfair competition which does not respect the environment and safety rules. only effective cooperation between all the actors concerned will guarantee the protection of consumers worldwide, and more specifically those in europe. the second aspect concerns the development of legislation to reduce co2 emissions from companies, including mutual agreements on emissions trading. we must bear in mind the need for the european union to avoid penalising our companies by imposing on them the fair and logical provisions of the new environmental standards in the context of the climate plan, without requiring in return that other countries adopt similar rules. the inclusion of these two points - in form and in spirit - in our relations would help to maintain the competitiveness of our european companies while protecting consumers, not forgetting, of course, the preservation of the climate. in short, it's probably the search for the perfect balance in our relationships.
mr president, commissioner, my first words will be to join in the compliments of my excellent colleague, mr glyn ford, and i take this opportunity to greet the presidency of mr hartmut nassauer, who chairs our delegation for relations with the countries of south-east asia. i remember, colleagues, when we were in the republic of the philippines. i think that we are not neglecting the development aspects in these matters. i remember that trip to the island of mindanao, to kidapawan, in the province of cotabato, where we saw almost 500 farmers who had about 1.5 hectares of land and who, thanks to the intervention of the european union, were able to survive on their own production in the context of subsistence farming. we have seen enthusiasm and appreciation, and i believe that the development aspects, commissioner, must be taken into account in all the policies of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by rosa migueléz ramos, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the management of deep-sea fish stocks (2007/2110 (ini)) (a6-0103/2008).
i would like to ask you to forward this to the chairmen of your respective groups, because you have not forgotten that the conference of group chairmen sets the agenda and the order in which reports are to be presented. so i'll report back from my end, you pass along information from yours.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, commissioner, i find myself in a paradoxical situation, as has sometimes happened, for example, when the rapporteur, mr pistelli, who was at the forefront of what will undoubtedly be parliament's position on transparency, but who was unfortunately dismissed by our committee. so i can only look forward to the final result which will no doubt be ours today. we cannot imagine that, for markets to function well, the rule of transparency is the essential rule and we, the legislators, refuse to apply it to ourselves, even though we know very well that, in our own legislative process - and i say this to the previous speaker - our relations with external interlocutors, whether lobby groups or sects - i say this for mr friedrich - are absolutely decisive in our original european legislative process. we have a duty to set an example in this area, including, i think, the systematic use of the notion of a legislative footprint, which seems to me to be extremely fruitful.
, in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which i believe will significantly improve relations between stakeholders and the eu institutions. it proposes, in particular, that rather than trying to draw up and keep up to date an exhaustive list of such representatives, which would be a tedious or even impossible task, a global definition of the term 'lobby' should be used, which would prevent structures not listed from circumventing the standards laid down. another major step forward is the standardisation and simplification of the regulatory framework applicable to lobbyists, and in particular the creation of a single register common to all the institutions, on which lobbyists can register and which will eventually become a benchmark and a guarantee of seriousness and credibility for all accredited organisations. but it will also be more transparent to the general public, as it will be fully online and will contain for each body its full identification, including that of its staff, and all relevant financial data concerning it. the commission will be able to use the information it receives from the european parliament to help it to make its own decisions.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the white paper on sport after the own-initiative report on the future of professional football, the so-called 'belet report', is a considerable and necessary work. it is time for the european parliament and the european commission to take up the subject of sport. but positive feelings are not enough when faced with the scourges and challenges that threaten sports. the scourges of racism, mob violence, violence in and outside sports facilities, doping, the purchase of young, disposable players from africa and elsewhere, must be addressed! in view of the difficulties of managing exponential financial masses, particularly in football but also in other sports, the existence of agents of all kinds - players' agents, clubs, coaches - the dictatorship of the public, the liberalization of betting and gambling, clear guidelines are needed to allow continuity and the development of european sports federations and leagues, amateur and professional sport. sport, economy, finance, employment and diplomacy are now closely linked. athletes should not be made to pay for it, even though they are also citizens who can and should act in good conscience. it is up to politicians to take responsibility. the european union must do so at the olympic games in china to reaffirm that respect for cultures, territorial cults and democracy are essential and non-negotiable. we shall vote on mr mavrommatis' report on the white paper on sport, which is an excellent report.
first of all, i am pleased to inform the house that the lithuanian parliament ratified the treaty this morning. (applause) the agenda calls for the vote to be taken at the next voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
madam president, i would like to thank i would like to propose an oral amendment to paragraph 23 with the agreement of our rapporteur which would read as follows: notes with concern that during the last year of activities that new body has not proved its credibility but stresses once again the crucial role of the unhcr within the overall un architecture;
i remind you that the deadline has expired, but if there are no objections, we can accept your request.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has approved the amendments to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the seychelles for the period 2005 to 2011. the amendments introduced do not alter the basic elements of the agreement. they merely reflect the successes achieved and allow for practical adaptation to real needs. therefore, taking into account the average level of catches over the last three years, the reference tonnage has been increased from 55 000 tonnes to 63 000 tonnes. in addition, in order to balance the situation, the payment to shipowners was increased to eur 35 per tonne in order to harmonize with the other tuna agreements. as a corollary, the community counterpart was reduced from eur 75 to eur 65 per tonne. the total financial contribution thus rises from eur 4 125 000 to eur 5 355 000 a year. the success of this agreement shows the clear and mutual interest of the european union in concluding partnership agreements, particularly in the fisheries sector. the reunion fleet has benefited from these fishing opportunities and i hope that today's vote will help to strengthen and stimulate the strength of our maritime economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my italian colleague monica frassoni on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission on the detailed rules for the application of the council decision laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission, as amended by decision no 2006/512/ec of 17 july 2006. unfortunately, the comitology procedure does not work well and it is urgent to put in place the means to allow both the commission to exercise its implementing powers and the european parliament to exercise control. the reference in the texts to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, where applicable, shall be mandatory for the three institutions. i am glad that the new agreement defines more precisely the commission's obligation to inform parliament in a manner that ensures the transparency and efficiency of the transmission system and an identification of the information transmitted and the different stages of the procedure. i welcome the establishment of an 'early warning system' to inform parliament of draft implementing measures. i support the idea that the commission should be required to publish all draft implementing measures as soon as they are formally proposed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my italian colleague monica frassoni on the amendment of article 81 of the european parliament's rules of procedure on the so-called comitology implementing measures. article 81 (4) (a) of parliament's rules of procedure provides that if the implementing measures envisaged by the commission fall under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, the scrutiny period shall begin to run when the draft measures have been submitted to parliament in all the official languages. i support the proposal to add that in the event of a shorter period provided for in article 5a (5) (b) and in the event of urgency provided for in article 5a (6) of decision 1999/468/ec, and unless the chair of the parliamentary committee objects, the time limit for scrutiny will run from the date of adoption by parliament of the final draft implementing measures in the language versions provided to the members of the committee set up pursuant to decision 1999/468/ec.
in writing. mr president, mrs frassoni's report has the merit of highlighting the rather cavalier way in which the commission, when it has power, treats the european parliament. the rapporteur is right to remind the commission of its duties and we support this attempt to re-establish a minimum of democratic control over the commission's activities. it is, however, doubtful whether this control will be applied better in the future than in the past, if only because of the commission's desire for secrecy, which would prevent parliament from consulting it on the measures it intends to take. and we regret that the real problem at its root is not mentioned: the extent of the commission's executive powers, which are akin to real legislative and regulatory power entrusted to civil servants, and the real democratic fraud of comitology.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 8 may 2008 on the transatlantic economic council, which stresses that a close transatlantic partnership is the key instrument for shaping globalisation in the interests of common values and a fair world order in economic policy. i share the view that an efficient and competitive transatlantic market provides a sound basis for the establishment of the transatlantic partnership, which will enable the union and the united states to address global political and economic challenges together. safe trade is particularly important in an increasingly integrated global economy, but i agree that the proposal to inspect 100% of containers of cargo from abroad in the name of combating terrorist threats is unjustified and unrealistic. cooperation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights is urgently needed, including measures to strengthen cooperation in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy and a clear roadmap to facilitate mutual recognition of international patent law. i regret that monetary cooperation between the dollar and the euro has not been developed.
in writing. i abstained from the final vote on this resolution for the following reasons in particular. the resolution contains positive points, such as the reference to the precautionary principle. however, i cannot support certain proposals and objectives. while i can accept the principle of a transatlantic market, it is not possible, much less desirable, to complete it by 2015. this completion is in fact a further step towards the elimination of non-tariff barriers (paragraph 17), i.e. social, health, environmental standards, etc. the provisions adopted by the eu through legislation in this area provide satisfactory protection for european consumers and citizens, and they need to be maintained or improved. nor can the labelling and traceability of products be relied upon to ensure consumer choice (para. 28). a consumer protection policy cannot be reduced to this type of measure. it is also necessary to ensure the choice of agricultural products by preventing contamination of conventional and organic crops by gmos. finally, as regards the import of american chicken treated with bleach, the wording used is too ambiguous. imports must be banned if we are to preserve the community's food security policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of my italian colleague marco cappato's own-initiative report on human rights in the world in 2007. i support the view that the commission and the council should, following the example of what they did in establishing the international criminal court, take priority action in support of international tribunals for the protection of human rights. the new united nations human rights council (unhrc) should be seen as a viable framework for improving the human rights situation in the world. i support the promotion of non-violence as a fundamental instrument for respect for fundamental human rights and the fight against the death penalty. like my colleagues, i am surprised that many european countries have still not ratified the optional protocol to the convention against torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment. i welcome the effectiveness of the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) but its budget remains drastically below expectations and i support an increase in the eidhr budget as from 2009.
in writing. i welcome the adoption today of mr cappato's motion for a resolution on the 2007 annual report on human rights in the world and the eu's human rights policy. this report examines the progress made in all parts of the world in the field of human rights and assesses the efforts made by the eu to promote human rights through its actions and policies. the report rightly stresses the need to improve the coherence of internal and external policies in this area. the report focuses in particular on the issue of the death penalty, the fight against all forms of torture, discrimination and violence against women and the need to strengthen the protection of children's rights. it stressed the eu's responsibility to promote the role of civil society in order to make the fight more effective and relevant and to strengthen the means available to this end.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint own-initiative report by my belgian colleague, veronique de keyser, and my spanish colleague, josé ignacio salafranca sanchez-neyra, on the european union's election observation missions (eoms). election observation, especially in new democracies, must remain a priority for the eu because while elections do not constitute democracy, they are an essential component of it and therefore a fundamental right of the people. like my colleagues, i regret that the union still lacks a common and comprehensive strategy for the promotion of democracy and that post-electoral operations should be monitored, as it is not satisfactory to have, in some cases, a passive attitude towards countries whose electoral process has been severely criticised by observers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my excellent british colleague glyn ford on trade and economic relations with the association of south east asian nations (asean) which is part of a broader strategy of bilateral and interregional negotiations with trade partners. in any event, a partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), containing enforceable human rights clauses, is a precondition for the union to conclude a free trade agreement (fta). a solution to the banking secrecy problem in singapore is essential if there is to be any real prospect of an interregional free trade agreement. like my colleagues, i attach particular importance to the fight against counterfeit medicines, which give rise to unfair competition and are a danger to consumers. i regret the adoption of the principle of maximum use of the flexibilities recognised in the declaration on the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips agreement) and access to medicines, and this in the absence of a serious evaluation of these arrangements.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly normal to consult the parties concerned about legislation that is being prepared or adopted. we are the first to recognise, as parliamentarians called upon to give their opinion on sometimes highly technical subjects, the very important information role played by what are commonly called lobbies. their work is useful, but it must be firmly and consistently framed in their relations with all the institutions, and that is why we shall vote in favour of this report. a few remarks, though. we must not confuse all interest groups: we cannot treat representatives of multinational firms or ngos in the same way as representatives of democratic local or national authorities. in our view, the 'legislative footprint', i.e. the mention of the groups consulted, must be mandatory, especially at commission level. we know how much influence these groups have on the drawing up of legislative proposals or the orientation of european policy, and how difficult it is for the legislator to make fundamental changes to these proposals and orientations. finally, the financial information requested from lobbies must be sufficiently detailed to allow the financial interests involved and their holders to be clearly identified.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which brings more transparency. lobbyists are important players who can provide useful expertise. however, it is essential to be able to identify the organisations represented by the pressure groups. a mandatory public register for lobbyists, shared by the council, the commission and parliament, and including all their sources of funding, is a good initiative that will help to bring about greater clarity. the opening of a 'one-stop shop' where lobbyists would only have to register once to gain access to parliament, the commission and the council will also bring more simplification. it is also normal that there should be penalties for lobbyists who do not comply with the code of conduct.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to better regulate the activities of interest representatives in the eu institutions. in brussels, the 'lobbyists' are legion: their number is generally estimated at more than 15 000, for 2500 pressure groups. their main objective is to influence community decisions, and their activities - which inspire suspicion and mistrust in many citizens - are a full part of democratic life. a member of parliament, for example, will always understand better the issues involved in a draft legislation after having heard the views of professional associations, ngos, trade unions or regions. however, lobbying can only be such a tool in the service of democracy if it is carried out in a transparent manner. meps, like citizens, need to be able to know precisely who these actors are: who is funding them? what interests do they really represent ? the text thus fulfils this requirement by requiring lobbyists to register in a public register common to all the community institutions and to indicate the details of their funding; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, we did not plan for this at the conference of presidents, but of course the agenda allows it. we had a debate in september 2007. the roma problem is a real problem for the whole of europe, also for romania, and we saw this when we were in romania. we have a debate on this, which i believe is being prepared for september. would it not be better, and our group proposes it, if the problem in italy were first discussed in the libe committee and if there were no formal debate before it was prepared here in parliament? that is the position of the epp-ed group.
mr president, commissioner, it is worrying to have to remind the commission that it is responsible for the fair implementation of european policies in each national territory. in france, however, the state has withdrawn from the auvergne region alone the delegation of management of the european social fund to the local plans for integration and employment. this position is incomprehensible. the management record of these structures is excellent. this partisan decision puts at risk the lives of these structures which have been working for years to integrate the most deprived into society. the european commission must remind the french state of its duty to be consistent and to respect the rules for implementing european funds. there can be no sectarian, partisan applications of agreements with the european union in the same territory.
mr president, you said earlier that you did not have all the powers. i am sure, however, that you have the power to implement the decisions of the conference of presidents. the commission rightly decided on 24 april to ask the quaestors to challenge their decision of 26 september 2007 to allocate funds within the european parliament for the european business and parliament scheme. at our last part-session we adopted a stubb/friedrich report on the lobbying issue. but frankly, the fact that representatives of employers are moving into the parliamentary institution seems to me to lead to a mix of genders, to an imbalance in our relations with the social partners, which is totally contrary to the whole parliamentary tradition that we know within the european union. and i do not understand why, after this decision by the conference of presidents, we have received an invitation from mr vidal-quadras, vice-president of parliament, on your behalf, to a ceremony to launch this european business and parliament scheme on 3 june. i hope, mr president, that you will use all your authority to restore order in this house and to enforce the decision of the conference of presidents.
mr president, once again in this budgetary debate we must thank mr lewandowski for his very balanced report. and once again, i would like to stress the importance of 2009 for european democracy, a year which will see the renewal of the parliament and the commission and which will therefore be a key year for the communication of our institutions to the citizens. but for them to feel interested, concerned by european issues and to be massively involved in the electoral process, the communication coming from the different institutions must also be coherent and legible. in this context, and for the sake of efficiency, good cooperation between the three main institutions, which communicate directly or in a decentralised way through their representation in the member states, is essential one year before the next elections. it is in this spirit that my group tabled amendment no 2 to mr lewandowski's report. this is a matter of public concern to which we are all deeply attached in this parliament.
, in writing. the report presented to us today is intended to enable the members of our institution to express their views on the estimated budget of the european parliament for 2009. this is a pivotal year in which our assembly will be renewed, in which there will also be important changes in the status of members and their assistants, and above all, in the first year of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gives our institution greater responsibility and therefore more work. i would like to support the draft estimate submitted to us by the bureau of parliament. while taking account of the increased financial needs that parliament will face, this project keeps us below the 20% threshold of expenditure under title v. efforts to rationalise our administration must continue to further optimise its efficiency, in particular through redeployment of staff. finally, i would like to stress that an impact analysis of the needs arising from the entry into force of the simplified treaty is under way and that it will be possible to adjust the estimated appropriations until the vote on the first reading of the budget next autumn.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleagues, i would first like to highlight the excellent results achieved through peace i and peace ii, and particularly for the beneficiaries themselves in ireland, in northern ireland, who today have both dignity and hope. on this basis, i would like to emphasize two particular points, madam commissioner, on which i hope you will be able to achieve real success. firstly, as mrs de brún has asked in her report, the british and irish governments should really cooperate with the decisions of the european parliament, the commission and the european council so that the transitional and complementary measures are implemented by these two governments. secondly, madam commissioner, since you are in charge of the task force - and this will not surprise you - i would ask you to ensure that the integrated approach is consistent between the various actors, between the various programmes, funds and territories. last but not least, i hope that the irish example will indeed be a good lesson for the world.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's assessment of the enhanced partnership for the outermost regions is at least partial and does not always reflect the difficulties encountered on the ground. however, reducing their accessibility deficit, improving their competitiveness and their regional integration remain appropriate objectives for the priorities of these regions. the image of the azores, the canary islands, guadeloupe, guyana, madeira, martinique and réunion, often equated with regions inundated with community or national funds, without any evidence of the positive impact of these funds, is hardly offset by the real added value they provide for the union in environmental, cultural or geostrategic terms. the structural funds continue to contribute to the development of the outermost regions. i hope, however, that the commission will adapt its present and future policies ever more closely to the realities of the outermost regions in order to respond to their constant constraints. a too systematic methodology for quantifying the additional costs would be disproportionate and would not take into account the specificities of each of these ors. the growing importance given to evaluation of community policies should not create an unnecessary statistical tool. i regret the lack of interest at first sight - i say, at first sight - shown by the commerce dg in the negotiation of the economic partnership agreements. i urge the commission to continue to seek compromises which respect the interests of the overseas territories in the final agreements to be concluded with the acp countries and to give real coherence to the action plan on the wider neighbourhood, for the wider neighbourhood. in the field of transport, my report is concerned about the inclusion of civil aviation in the european co2 emissions trading system. the efforts made to make up for the lack of accessibility of the outlying regions should not be questioned. community action must be a catalyst for the spirit of initiative to develop centres of excellence, drawing on sectors which make use of the strengths and know-how of the ors, such as waste management, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency and biodiversity. i welcome the public consultation on the future of the union's strategy for the outermost regions, but consider that the themes chosen, such as climate change, demographic change or the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy, although they are essential issues, do not cover all the major concerns of our regions. i regret that the scope of article 299 (2) of the treaty, which is the basis of the union's policy in favour of these ors, was not included as such on the agenda of the debate in order to give it the legal, institutional and political tone it requires. the importance of public services for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the ors, the question of state aid, the maintenance of differentiated tax systems, the persistence of unemployment and inequalities, the means of overcoming the narrowness of local markets, integration into the european research area, effective participation in european innovation policies and the fight against the digital divide, the articulation of funding for cooperation with neighbouring countries seem to me to be essential topics for reflection today. in conclusion, i would like to stress the objectives of my report, namely to ensure the conditions for the economic development of the outermost regions and thus guarantee the overseas populations real prosperity, to strengthen their competitiveness and to convince them that the future of europe also depends on these remote territories. i thank you in advance for your support of your vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when our planet has become a very small village, since we can easily move from one end of our planet to the other, we must understand that these outermost regions are a great opportunity for the european union. as our rapporteur, mrs sudre, has said in various paragraphs, we have great advantages in agriculture, fisheries, research, technology and tourism in our outermost regions. this is the largest marine area with 25 million square kilometers. we must therefore build on these assets, as this report shows, if our outermost regions are to be able to make a real contribution to our collective future. i would like to take the second point as the special case of the cities, as the chairman of the urban intergroup with several of my colleagues from the urban intergroup here tonight, because it is in the cities that the unemployment issues are concentrated, which are three times as important as in our continent. it is in cities that migration is concentrated, it is in cities that demographic developments are concentrated. commissioner, you have an extraordinary opportunity here to impose an integrated approach on the various european funds, but also on the various policies and projects of governments, regions and local authorities. we will not be effective in these outermost regions, we will not be able to make the best use of the assets they have if we do not develop this integrated approach. i thank you in advance, commissioner, for using our european regulations so that the integrated approach is a factor in the success of everything we put in place.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow in parliament rightly points out that the specific features of the outermost regions are also part of their strength. while they are hampered by handicaps, they also have undeniable assets which must be exploited urgently to ensure effective and sustainable development in the future. to give our islands a boost, we must also grow and ensure the sustainability of the quality agricultural sectors which contribute to the diversity of our community products. it is to encourage the development of a genuine tourist centre based on the richness of our landscapes and our cultural heritage. finally, it is to take advantage of the geographical situation of the outermost regions, particularly in the caribbean and the indian ocean, by promoting better cooperation with neighbouring third countries and by making the most of our insularity to develop genuine excellence in scientific research, particularly in the maritime, climatological and environmental sectors. these objectives can, however, only be achieved within a specific regulatory framework, the current article 299 (2) of the treaty, the spirit of which should guide the specific application of european public policies, particularly in the energy and transport sectors, but also in international trade policies, with the interests of the ors being taken into account in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements. the voluntarism of the ors, real and unfailing, goes hand in hand with the need to be treated in an equitable way, that is to say, differentiated. i am sure that the commission will take this into account when it is preparing its report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to welcome the quality of the report by our colleague, mrs sudre. more than ten years after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, in its article 299 (2), we can only note that the policy implemented by the eu has led to undeniable progress. however, we must now move to a new stage based on a reversal of approach in the relations between the eu and the ors. this implies that the eu should take better account of the strengths of the ors, as was advocated at last week's seminar. it seems to me that this new strategy should, in addition to making up for the delays, put the emphasis on development, development which is undeniably conditioned by the exploitation of our potential. this applies to scientific research, marine resources, biodiversity, european social policy, climate change and the incomparable contribution of cultural diversity. i have tabled a number of amendments to that effect. i hope they'll be satisfied. to give substance to this new approach is to give the or the means to be true partners of europe and it is in this that we must consider a new way of seeing: a shared partnership for the benefit of all.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would of course like to thank all the speakers for their contribution to this debate and i would like to thank the commission again for the initiative it took last week on the strategy for the outermost regions. i should like to respond to some of my colleagues and thank them for their congratulations on this report. i would simply like to reply to mr guerreiro that what he is asking for, this support for renovation and for studies on fisheries, the increase in aid, all this is already contained in the european fisheries fund. all this is already contained in the policy adopted by the european union, by the commission in the committee on fisheries and we are here in a report on regional development policy. that is why i have taken into account the importance of fisheries to our development without, however, giving it the huge place that mr guerreiro would have wished. i would remind him that we are talking about regional development policy. mr medina ortega has already responded to our greek colleagues who asked for the same policy to be applied to all the islands and explained the difference that exists thousands and thousands of kilometres from the european continent. no matter how much progress we make, we're still thousands of miles away, and that's what makes us special. whatever my understanding of the problems facing islanders, we obviously cannot apply the same exceptions and rules to islands that are only a few hours away by boat or a few minutes by air. so it is not at all a lack of consideration of the situation of the islands but it is, i would like to stress, the whole difference between your islands close to the mainland and ours which are extremely remote. mr guerreiro, you have again said that we should not rely on transitional criteria. of course our situation is not temporary, it is permanent, but we cannot ask for aid to be provided permanently and ad vitam aeternam at the same level, since our hope is to catch up with the community average.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr lehtinen on his excellent work and his attentiveness. the report aims to improve a commission strategy already based on the principles of consumer protection and empowerment. i therefore support the horizontal approach advocated by the rapporteur to reconcile consumer protection - especially for the most vulnerable - with the efficiency of the internal market. it is also essential to strengthen the role of consumer organisations in the preparation of legislative proposals. as regards product safety, the commission must not only continue its efforts to control markets but also rapidly define the principles of ce marking, which offers a real guarantee of quality, traceability and safety. finally, it is essential to improve access to redress by proposing a european system of collective redress to enable consumers to exercise all their rights in the event of proven harm while avoiding negative deviations from the us system. voting in this way can only strengthen citizens' confidence in an open and protective european market model.
, in writing. i welcome very much the report by mr lehtinen, which puts consumer protection at the heart of the completion of the internal market. the text recalls that a high level of protection for all consumers in the european union is only possible through a horizontal approach, i.e. through sectoral directives aimed at harmonising national legislation, and also stresses the need to strengthen consumer confidence. this requires in particular that the security of all products in circulation and of transactions carried out in the context of cross-border trade in services or by electronic means be guaranteed. i am glad that this report proposes to study the implementation at community level of quick and effective remedies for consumers. the establishment of systems for the out-of-court settlement of disputes would help to meet these expectations, as would the adaptation to community law of certain types of action, such as collective actions, which already exist in some member states. i believe, however, that the benefits and limitations of such regulations should be studied in greater depth in the light of various national experiences.
, in writing. mr president,ladies and gentlemen,i am pleased that the european commission, in its proposal for a community strategy for consumers 2007-13, has made strengthening eu consumer protection one of its priorities. i would also like to thank my finnish socialist colleague, mr lasse lehtinen, for the quality of the work he has done and the considerable contributions he has made to the text. i therefore welcome the horizontal approach which he advocates at community level, since it is essential to take account of the interests of consumers in all the union's policies. but i also support his desire to strengthen the role of consumer associations in the development of european rules or to increase the protection of the most vulnerable, especially young people and the elderly, by increasing targeted information campaigns. finally, i strongly support the establishment of a european system of collective redress, which would allow consumers in different member states to bring their complaints together before the courts in order to obtain redress, while avoiding the pitfalls of the american model. i hope therefore that, despite the opposition of the conservatives, our parliament will vote in favour of these european class actions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, dear anne van lancker, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, anne van lancker, and the members of the ppe-de group for the quality of the consultation we were able to have together to produce this text which sums up our common convictions and wishes on the evolution of the employment guidelines. the growth of employment in europe, in accordance with the lisbon strategy, must now be driven by three major recent or ongoing developments: first, the globalisation of the economy, which requires us to have a europe that is strong in economic terms and in terms of employment development; flexicurity, which is absolutely necessary for the development of our enterprises and therefore for the development of employment; and, of course, the building of a social europe. to this end, we have tried to introduce three highlights into this evolution of the employment guidelines. on the one hand, the essential fight against the exits from training systems without qualifications. to leave training without qualifications means not having the tools for professional integration and therefore not having the tools for social integration. this is our first duty and we must concentrate on this objective. the second point on which we must be extremely vigilant is to maintain and develop lifelong learning, which alone guarantees the maintenance of employability and mobility of workers. the third point concerns the validation of the experience acquired, which allows workers to make real progress in their working lives, but also allows companies to adapt to new needs. and so, we have found agreement on all these points. i therefore thank the members of the epp-ed political group for their support in today's vote.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to commend the remarkable work of my colleague, mrs elisabeth morin, who has defended the positions of our political group. but at the risk of being off-topic, i would like to raise the question of the role of the social partners, which seems to me to be very absent from this report. we are taking decisions under article 128, that is to say we are going to make recommendations to the member states, but i think the time has come for more action. what is your view, commissioner, of the application of article 139 of the treaty, which specifically provides for the possibility for the social partners to create a community social law? how can we have an employment policy if we do not have a coordination of social law? and i believe that, under article 138, commissioner, it is your task to promote the social partners and we must involve the social partners in the creation of a genuine european social law.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, your work and commitment to this vital issue has been remarkable. i was one of the first to witness this in the employment committee of our group, and i thank you very much for that. a protective right is only valid if it is actually applied. i therefore share your concern, madam rapporteur, about the poor implementation of the anti-discrimination directives in some member states. these situations are unacceptable and the commission must take strong and voluntary action. no indulgence can be tolerated in this area. but a protective right is also only of interest if it can be actually exercised by those it is supposed to protect. i therefore share your view that we must ensure that victims of discrimination have access to information and the means to defend themselves. this is the responsibility of the member states and again, no negligence is acceptable. but if your report is a real milestone, it is mainly because of the overall approach to discrimination that you defend in it. i fully support your call for a comprehensive directive to combat all forms of discrimination. like you, i believe that a unified approach is essential, taking into account all the grounds for discrimination at the same time. article 13 is not a call for inaction or uncoordinated action but an invitation to action. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us put our fears and theoretical debates behind us. proposing a global directive is both necessary and sensible. we are a large majority here who share this conviction and ask you, commissioner, to listen to it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr piecyk on his excellent report on maritime policy and my colleague mr jarzembowski on his relevant remarks. this report, madam president, has the great merit of integrating the various aspects of this policy: environmental, economic, social and security aspects. i am thinking in particular of the problems of illegal immigration, terrorism and smuggling along the 320 000 kilometres of european coastline. the maritime front states must increase the monitoring and control of their seas. it is essential that cooperation between them and the countries from which these illegal activities originate be implemented as soon as possible. it is also true that scientific discoveries, considerable technological progress, globalisation, climate change and marine pollution are significantly changing europe's relationship with the seas and oceans, with all the difficulties and challenges that this entails. i regret, however, that the text proposed does not deal more deeply with port policy and fisheries, two matters which are, as we know, particularly sensitive. in france, it is the whole of the fishing industry that is blocking the ports of the atlantic, the channel and the mediterranean, in reaction, of course, to the surge in the price of diesel and the quota policy imposed by brussels. the sector is in crisis in a structural as well as an economic way. the fishing boards are not willing to invest in their boats and so the fleet is getting old. the average age of french fishing vessels is 25 years. the vocations of fishermen are becoming increasingly rare due to the constraints on their profession. an integrated maritime policy, madam president, must take account of these sectoral considerations and problems and reverse as quickly as possible the trend which is leading to the slow death of the fisheries sector.
madam president, one of the objectives of the first european maritime day we are celebrating today is to give the maritime professions a new face by giving them a new perspective for the future. in addition to improving the working and employment conditions of seafarers and redefining career plans, a number of structural conditions must be met. today, all over france, desperate fishermen are blocking ports because they no longer see any prospects for the future. the fishing restrictions aimed at preserving fish stocks - which i do not question in principle, but whose fairness i sometimes question - are now being supplemented by the rise in fuel prices which threatens to bankrupt them. this is a problem that is now emerging in france but which may soon emerge elsewhere in europe. the european union can and must act in this area by supporting restructuring and promoting the introduction of less expensive and cleaner vessels. but it must also help the businesses affected by the economic crisis to get back on their feet. i would like to stress this last point because the first european maritime days should not coincide with the death of an entire profession in the minds of our fellow citizens.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, with regard to the sudre report, with the support of my group i tabled a number of amendments as part of a compromise. these amendments were partially accepted. i thank the committee. the amendments concerned the recognition of the added value of the ors in the spatial area, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency and biodiversity, the importance of the public service for the development of the ors, the observation of the poor integration of the ors into the european research area, the recognition of the benefit of the net-biome programme and the capacity of the ors to make significant contributions to established international priorities. i regret, however, that this report did not fully integrate the social and cultural aspects of global development and that it did not include support for and recognition of the regional languages of the rup, funding for research into slavery and colonialism, and defence of the rights of the indigenous peoples of guyana. i regret that the report does not make a significant commitment to building research capacity to its full potential. i regret that my proposal for a regulation of postal and telecommunications tariffs between national territories and the overseas territories was not accepted. finally, as part of the review, i regret that my request for a study of the social and environmental impact of the sugar and banana coms was rejected. however, i voted for this report which certainly brings interesting elements and results for the ors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my swedish colleague jan andersson, under the simplified procedure, which confirms the proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing council decision 85/368/eec on the equivalence of vocational training qualifications between the member states of the european communities which called on the latter and the commission to jointly develop community descriptions of the professional requirements applicable to specific professions and then to establish a correspondence between these defined descriptions and the vocational training qualifications recognised in the member states. since this decision is difficult to enforce, it should be repealed. the european certification framework (ecf) should address the shortcomings of the decision to be repealed by aiming to improve the transparency of certifications while introducing a decentralised method of cooperation better suited to the increasing complexity of certifications in europe. nevertheless, this unfortunate case demonstrates the need to clarify and simplify community law so that citizens can take it into their own hands and use it in their daily lives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my polish colleague lidia joanna geringer from oedenberg approving, at first reading under the co-decision procedure, the proposal for a european parliament and council directive codifying council directive 93/7/eec of 15 march 1993 on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state, as amended by directives 96/100/ec (oj l 1, 1.3.1997) and 2001/38/ec (oj l 10, 1.7.2001). i regret that the process of codification is so slow and it should be remembered that on 1 april 1987 the commission decided to instruct its departments to codify all legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, stressing that this was a minimum rule and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. the presidency of the european council (edinburgh, december 1992) confirmed these imperatives. finally, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed, by an interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994, that an accelerated procedure could be used.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my italian colleague pia elda locatelli, drawn up in the context of the consultation procedure, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. it is a good policy to put europe at the global forefront of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. fuel cells are discrete and efficient energy converters, which can significantly reduce the production of greenhouse gases. they allow for a great deal of flexibility, as they can consume hydrogen and other fuels such as natural gas, ethanol and methanol. it was therefore essential to set up a community instrument with this joint technical initiative (jti) to create public-private partnerships in research under the seventh framework programme for research and development (fp7). the itcs, which are mainly the result of the work of the european technology platforms (etps), reflect the eu's strong commitment to coordinate research efforts in order to strengthen the european research area and achieve european competitiveness objectives. i support the idea of giving more help to smes.
in writing. the community tobacco fund, financed by the transfer of a certain amount of tobacco aid for the years 2006 and 2007, promotes public awareness campaigns on the harmful effects of tobacco consumption. the committee on agriculture and rural development proposed to extend its funding until the end of the financial perspective and raised the percentage to 6%. tobacco consumption in europe has not changed and the gradual decline in european production is being replaced by tobacco imports. the parallel issue of maintaining the tobacco cmo and thus postponing the 2004 reform which was to apply from 2010 will have to be addressed in the cap health check as decoupling causes almost total abandonment of production without any sustainable alternative from the point of view of the economy and employment, which has had very serious consequences for the rural area concerned but no impact on public health. i think that the fight against smoking and the extension of a transitional period to allow european tobacco producers to find alternatives to this crop and to mitigate the negative impact on our regions are not antinomic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my british colleague, mr bairbre de brun, on the evaluation of the peace programme (the eu programme for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland), which stresses that strengthening local self-government has been an essential element in peacebuilding in northern ireland and that the involvement of civil society in this process has made a significant contribution to improving the development and implementation of local policies. i support the idea that cooperation between participants in programmes funded by peace and the fii (international fund for ireland) does not end when the programmes expire.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, mr friedrich-wilhelm graeffe zu baringdorf, which proposes to amend the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on meat and livestock, but in a way that should allow for agreement at first reading in the codecision procedure. livestock statistics (twice a year for pigs and cattle and once a year for sheep and goats), monthly statistics on slaughter (heads and carcass weights of pigs, cattle, sheep, goats and poultry) and forecasts of meat production (meat of pigs, cattle, sheep and goats). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a step in the right direction. it seems appropriate to include, in addition to the statistics on pigmeat, beef, sheepmeat and goatmeat, poultrymeat.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my belgian colleague anne van lancker, drawn up in the context of the consultation procedure, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. i welcome the excellent work done by my colleague and friend elisabeth morin, rapporteur for our political group, particularly on flexicurity. at the risk of being off-topic since, in substance, this council decision is only intended to make recommendations to the member states on the basis of article 128 of the treaty establishing the european community (tec), i regret that the commission, while it is its duty under article 138 of the same treaty, does not put the social partners first by stating that the time has come to create a european social law on the basis of the same social partners on the basis of the procedure provided for in article 139 of the tec. we cannot have an ambitious employment policy if we do not put in place a european labour law with the support of the social partners.
in writing. the employment situation in the european union is poor. the average unemployment rate - 7.3% in 2007 - excluding supported jobs, is higher than in other major economies. for example, in north america, it is less than 5%. the guidelines presented to us will make matters worse than better. the lisbon strategy, which the rapporteur welcomes, exposes our economies to unfair competition, particularly from communist china, which is practicing genuine social dumping. in addition, by calling for a reduction in the 'inequalities between third country nationals and citizens of the european union', the report is part of the immigration policy pursued for decades in our countries, which, by bringing in more than one and a half million extra-european immigrants every year, is making our nations third world. the main measures to be taken to develop employment in europe are to restore national preference, which is fair positive discrimination, to reduce the burden of immigration and thus reduce the tax burden on our companies and our workers, and to implement the principle of community preference in order to protect the european market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my polish colleague janusz lewandowski on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2009. this budget will have to meet major challenges such as the entry into force of the lisbon treaty if it is ratified by the member states, the fact that 2009 is an election year for parliament and the entry into force of the new statute for members. while i obviously agree that we must be vigilant about the quality of budgetary expenditure, i think we must be uncompromising about expenditure on multilingualism (translation and interpretation), which is a condition for the political success of the union. we also need to develop the capacity of meps to receive visitors, as these visits are very popular and help citizens to get to know the union. finally, i believe that the staffing of meps and committees of the european parliament should be increased in order to ensure their independence and the quality of their work; the european parliament has a duty to respect the rights of citizens and to respect the rights of the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my swedish colleague, mr jens holm, on trade in raw materials and basic products. i agree with the idea of the need to secure the eu's supply of raw materials and to ensure security of access to these materials on world markets, while noting that the eu does not currently propose a coherent policy to enable its economy to meet the competitiveness challenges of increased competition in access to raw materials. i regret that the report does not address the issues of monetary manipulation in the world, which distorts fair competition by means of short-term exchange rates. among the raw materials, oil would have deserved special consideration and i reiterate my proposal for the creation of a european instrument for the annual regulation of the price of crude oil which would at least deserve to be studied - not to combat the laws of the market which are imposed on us - but to regulate the brutality of their application in the internal market and to allow a better impact of the increases in crude oil in the cost price chain of the sectors concerned (fisheries, transport, etc.).
in writing. mr holm's report seems to identify quite clearly the problems facing the world today due to the unprecedented rise in the price of raw materials. for european countries deprived of natural resources, these are problems of competitiveness, hence of employment, security of supply, increased dependence... and, for poor countries, of questioning their development, hunger riots... but if some causes are mentioned, notably the predatory behaviour of certain emerging countries such as china, or the liberalisation of agricultural exchanges, others are hidden or almost, such as speculation, the malthusian agricultural policy of brussels europe, the very principle of global ultra-changeism... as for the solutions, it is clear that this parliament believes essentially in the regulatory virtues of the free and competitive market. the market is now showing its limits. energy, food and raw materials are not products like any other: the survival of peoples depends on them. it is time for europe based in brussels to put its own interests and those of its members first in its international trade relations, rather than the realisation of the globalist utopia at any human and social cost.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my french colleague and friend, margie sudre, which she drew up in response to the commission's communication on the strategy for the outermost regions (orr). i am of the opinion that the fact that measures are justified by increasingly arithmetical means should not be used as a pretext for calling into question part of the union's policy towards its ors, or for discouraging the actors by requiring them to meet conditions that are too difficult to meet. community interventions should act as a catalyst for the spirit of initiative to develop, from the ors, centres of excellence, drawing on sectors that value their assets and know-how, such as waste management, renewable energy, energy self-sufficiency, biodiversity, student mobility, climate research and crisis management. finally, i support the fact that the future common immigration policy pays special attention to the situation in the overseas territories, which are all external borders of the union. i commend the work of margie sudre, who has worked tirelessly, with great skill, determination and heart for the outermost regions.
in writing. france is very concerned about the european union's policy in favour of peripheral regions. the specific nature of these territories must be taken into account, much more and much better than it is today, by the policies of brussels, in particular: - by trade policy, the production of the ors being in competition with those of neighbouring countries benefiting from ultra-preferential conditions from the eu; - by immigration policy, these territories being particularly vulnerable and the influx of illegal immigrants creating economic and social difficulties without common measure with the local capacities to overcome them; - by the provisions concerning state aid and especially by maintaining the tax exemptions enjoyed by these territories, periodically called into question by european law. i am particularly concerned about the legal ambiguity surrounding saint barthélemy: a territorial authority since 2007, this small french island has, by changing its status, wanted to retain the tax exemption which is the condition for its economic survival. but the eu seems to consider it part of the ors, i.e. a territory of the union subject to community law. it would be unacceptable if this ambiguity were to call into question the desire for autonomy clearly expressed by 95% of the population.
in writing. i abstained on the own-initiative report by my finnish colleague lasse lehtinen in response to the commission's communication on the community strategy on consumer policy for 2007-13. i naturally agree that europe's 493 million consumers must be at the heart of the three main challenges facing the union: growth, jobs and the need to strengthen ties with citizens, and that they are the lifeblood of the economy, with their consumption accounting for 58% of eu gdp. i am convinced, however, that if we have achieved the internal market through competition; i believe that in the face of today's global challenges, we must put the producer at the heart of our concerns. furthermore, i am very concerned, in the absence of any serious legal study, about the hasty way in which the report tackles the issue of consumer collective action against producers by asking the commission to come up with a coherent solution at european level offering all consumers access to collective redress mechanisms to settle cross-border disputes.
in writing. i abstained on the own-initiative report by my british colleague elisabeth lynne on the progress made in the eu on equal opportunities and non-discrimination since the transposition of the 2000 directives. i agree with the main principles set out in the report, including non-discrimination in areas such as education, lifelong learning, employment, social protection, housing and healthcare, images of discriminated groups in the media and advertising, physical access of disabled people to information, telecommunications, electronic communications, different modes of transport and public spaces, social benefits and access to them, and goods and services made available to the public, etc. however, i am not convinced that a new directive based on article 13 of the treaty establishing the european community is necessary. the political debate must continue. follow ...
in writing. the lynne report on combating discrimination in the member states, particularly in employment, is in line with the texts adopted by this parliament on this subject. behind the general terms and the few mentions about women or the disabled, it is not difficult to distinguish the real, and obsessive, object of your attention: the immigrant populations. to drown the fish, everything is deliberately mixed up: discrimination against women, young people, the elderly, on the basis of ethnic origin, etc., but also on the basis of national origin. if there is any discrimination which is perfectly justified, morally, legally and politically, it is national and european preference in employment and social benefits. correspondingly, your proposals for 'positive action', since you do not dare to use the real terms, are indeed reverse discrimination, the first victims of which would be, and already are, the europeans themselves in their own countries. but this discrimination seems normal to you.
in writing. there are currently no less than five directives on equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the european union. twenty-eight infringement actions are pending against member states which have not transposed them. we can only regret it. but should gender equality be systematically enforced through coercion and repression? i don't think so, on the contrary. let us stop stigmatising this discourse on discrimination by calling minority groups and populations, and immigrants in particular, 'gentiles' and by blaming europeans who continue to discriminate. we must put an end to these leftist slogans which do not help the cause of people who are discriminated against, but who are instead stigmatised. instead, we should emphasise the individual responsibility to end all forms of discrimination and the need for immigrants in particular to adapt to our rules, laws and values.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my german colleague willi piecyk on an integrated maritime policy for the european union, drawn up in response to a commission communication on the same subject. europe's maritime spaces (two oceans - the atlantic and the arctic - and four seas - the baltic, north sea, mediterranean and black sea) and coastlines (70,000 km) are essential to its well-being and prosperity; they are the trade routes, the climate regulators, the sources of food, energy and resources, and the places where europeans live and play. i'd add that they're a reservoir of water that will be a scarce commodity. in a context of globalisation and rapid climate change, there is an urgent need to act by establishing an integrated maritime policy for the european union, based on the recognition that all issues relating to europe's oceans and seas are interlinked. maritime surveillance, which is essential to ensure safety and security in the use of maritime space, maritime spatial planning, which is a fundamental planning tool for environmentally sustainable decision-making, and a source of comprehensive and accessible data and information are all very interesting avenues.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i consider it essential for the european union to have an integrated maritime policy as soon as possible. the eu would have much to gain from adopting a coherent strategy in the implementation of the various sectoral policies which have an impact on the maritime sector, such as certain social, industrial or environmental policies, and thus fostering the establishment of a genuine 'network of solidarity'. i also welcome the desire to strengthen the fight against global warming and pollution by creating genuine innovation hubs which can also be a source of competitiveness and social welfare for the union's coastal regions. finally, i support the proposals in the report on the safety aspect of maritime policy, and in particular the idea of drawing up common rules in this area and of sharing the means of surveillance within the community's maritime area. this would make it possible both to combat maritime piracy, which has been on the rise in recent years, and to protect the natural and archaeological heritage of these areas in order to prevent possible disasters with disastrous effects on the development of the union's coastline.
mr president, we cannot seriously consider the question of the transport of goods by road without addressing the problem of dangerous goods. however, in the texts before us today, as in all european legislation, this problem is either underestimated or badly dealt with. but if there is one area where more europe is needed, where more binding community rules are needed, it is this area. as many companies put their dangerous goods on the roads to avoid a seveso site classification of their establishments, the flows of dangerous goods moving through the union are continuing to increase, increasing the risks of major disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road transport of dangerous goods is not compromised. the danger of composite charges is grossly underestimated. harmless cargo taken apart can become dangerous if they coexist in the same parking lot. this danger is simply being ignored at the moment. i am advocating the creation of a european agency for the safety of the inland transport of dangerous goods to promote a genuine comprehensive safety policy at union level.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank our two rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and then to express the hope that under the french presidency this very important road package will of course have a future and a conclusion. i would like to focus on two issues first. the first is that of cabotage and the date which the european parliament has decided to set, i.e. automatic liberalisation in 2014. from this point of view, there is a natural distortion between the countries which are peripheral and the countries of transit. a country like france, a country like germany, probably, a country like austria are by nature the most corrupt countries. and the fact that we have just adopted a definition of cabotage, which is called cabotage following an international journey, is a good thing at the same time, but it assures us that the social question will create considerable distortions, since in road transport the principle of the country of origin is the one that is required. and so i think it would have been much wiser to wait - as was originally planned - for a commission report to enable us to take stock of the social distortions before deciding on automatic liberalisation. secondly, there is the matter of the derogation for bus driving times. i have already said that i think this procedure is abhorrent, without going into the substance of the matter. it is a question, under the influence of pressure groups, of putting forward an amendment which is an amendment to a text which is not the original text. this question should be settled by a new commission proposal amending what was called the markov report. i would also remind you that we are proposing an amendment to the markov report in the form of a regulation, whereas the markov report was a directive. i am not saying that this was a regulation, you are right, it was a regulation, but in any case i think that parallelism of forms is necessary and we must not make a habit of tabled amendments to texts other than the original texts under pressure from pressure groups.
mr president, i am not saying that i give preference to mr grosch or to mrs ţicău but i will speak about cabotage like my honourable colleague mr savary did. this cabotage discussion has been going on for many years. as one of the stakeholders said, ‘the behaviour of the council can be compared to the behaviour of a snail’; that is how slowly the council has been moving on this subject whereas parliament has finally got its act together. cabotage is more important than we realise and i have to say that i cannot agree with my dear friend, mr savary, when he expresses fear that the social market will be distorted. if you do not allow cabotage to happen, what does it mean? it means unnecessarily high transport costs; that means unladen, empty lorries going here and there. what is the eu all about? the eu is all about an open market, and we have to care for eu citizens. if we get the transport costs down that means that the eu citizens will benefit and therefore we are giving them added value in their daily lives. at this point in time people everywhere are asking: ‘what is the eu doing?’ ordinary people are literally running after the money as the prizes are getting higher. well, at the same time we cannot apply protectionism. we must allow people to have a better life and, if we can lower the costs, our economy will improve and the ordinary people will benefit from it. just to give an example, on trade between finland and russia all the transport has been taken over by russian lorry drivers and the finnish citizens are benefiting from it. i cannot see why french citizens – i have my feet in both camps – would not benefit from cabotage. so we have to say ‘yes’ to the future.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the situation of the roma in italy.
member of the commission. − it is indeed important that we correct myths with facts and that we correct misunderstandings by providing concrete and objective factual information. therefore, i am very grateful that the honourable member has asked this question. in fact, by answering your question which i just did, i am sure that we can now provide facts which will correct these misunderstandings in the media which were referred to by mr claeys. as i said, this project is run in turkey by the turkish armed forces and therefore this should clarify the point made by the honourable member concerning where this project and programme is being run.
the agenda calls for the report by fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services (com ((2007) 0480 c6-0257/2007 2007/0174 cod)) (a6-0077/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate my colleague fiona hall, the rapporteur on this complex matter, on her willingness to cooperate with the rapporteurs of the political groups. i would like to associate my excellent colleague, angelika niebler, chairman of the committee on industry, with this, who is very competent and does a very good job. the compromise proposed is satisfactory. it is the result of long discussions with the slovenian presidency, whose quality of work i welcome, and which should enable us to reach an agreement at first reading so that mobile satellite services can be provided quickly. this is a great european success and good for you, commissioner, because in future systems providing mobile satellite services, such as broadband data transmission or mobile television, will be selected at european level. it is a guarantee of efficiency, better economy and community preference. the compromise is known. we have come a long way and i am glad that the commission has agreed to an increase in the services provided to citizens, since each system will have to cover 60% of the union's territory from the outset and the whole territory no later than seven years after it is put into operation. i am glad that the main criterion for coverage was the territory and not just the population, which allows us to serve our rural and remote areas. this is a point which is close to my heart, because i come from a rural area which has been and still is lagging behind in the provision of the same technological infrastructure as large urban areas, and it is a matter of equal opportunities for citizens wherever they are in the territory of the european union. once the text has been voted on in parliament and approved by the council, i ask the commission to do everything possible to ensure that mobile satellite services are rapidly introduced at reasonable rates, which will have to be monitored. these services represent important financial challenges as well as technological challenges, i.e. the possibility for europe to have an advanced sector in satellite services. finally, i hope that the audacity and ingenuity of our european industrialists will ensure that they will be able to comply with this political compromise by proving, once again, their immense capacity for technological adaptation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the eve of the vote in parliament on the s-band, a vote which has been eagerly awaited by operators and by many member states. the importance of these frequencies, which were previously unused, is fully recognised today in their capacity to transmit mobile television, data and emergency services, for which parliament has expressed its particular attachment. admittedly, the method may not be optimal. this "impressionist" approach, which consisted of drawing up a frequency map by small touches, showed some limitations. we shall try to remedy this when we consider the telecommunications package. as far as mobile satellite services are concerned, the bottom line is that the end result offers a balance between political ambition and economic feasibility. in particular, parliament stressed the need for geographical coverage to avoid the risk of a widening digital divide between member states, but also within member states. secondly, the weighting of the criteria for the 'beauty contest' accurately reflects the respective weight of the concerns of our parliament and those of european citizens, particularly in the area of public service. finally, the possibility of requisitioning, in a sense, the frequencies allocated in the event of a disaster is in line with the current discussions within the itu where the contribution of telecommunications to the protection of human life was examined last year at the world conference. as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, i would like to stress how pleasant it was to work with mrs hall, our rapporteur, whose determination i was able to measure. i also welcome the effective contribution of the slovenian presidency, which, in its baptism of fire, has been confronted with a truly thorny issue. finally, i would also like to congratulate our commissioner, mrs reding, on the technical collaboration between the commission departments, the itre committee secretariat and the legal linguists of the two co-legislators, which has made it possible to produce a text of high quality. i am glad that i was able to preside over the two trilogues which helped to clarify the points to be discussed and resolved. parliament was conciliatory in finalising the agreement with the council in view of the short time-frame for satellite programming and the economic and industrial issues involved. the financial investment to be undertaken is substantial and risky, and we all want it to succeed. i therefore conclude this speech by calling on the presidency and the commission to confirm their commitment that the deadlines for adopting the text and publishing the call for applications will be met before the summer.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you, thank you to parliament, thank you to its rapporteur, mrs hall. i think they have earned the satellite sector, which is an economic sector, but they have earned the european citizens who will have access to mobile satellite services: telephone, internet, television and also security services, especially in the event of disaster. so here is a service that is going to be very important for our great europe. the commission will do its utmost to publish a call for proposals as soon as possible, and as soon as possible, that is before the end of the summer. i therefore ask the council to move quickly, very quickly, so that the ministers can decide as early as june and then everything can be put in place so that the decisions which will be taken tomorrow by the european parliament can be implemented at breakneck speed - i must say - in the interests of our industry, in the interests of our citizens. thank you for this exemplary work!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the agenda calls for the report by britta thomsen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women and science (2007/2206 (ini)) (a6-0165/2008).
thank you very much, mr dover. i thank you all the more because, apart from commissioner dimas, you are the only man registered for this debate tonight. i only have female speakers.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, can we accept that our scrapping vessels are going to pollute the beaches of south asia because we refuse to take responsibility for their dismantling? south asia, which receives most of our ships, unfortunately collects pollutants such as asbestos, pyralenes, oils, hydrocarbon sludge, which also end up in the soil, the sand, the sea. if only that were all there was! children are the ones who work on this dismantling, because they can easily get into small spaces and, unfortunately, remove toxic materials without any protection. it's a low-cost labor force, victims of chronic and incurable diseases. from an ethical point of view, this is unacceptable, especially when ships come from europe and end up on the shores of india, pakistan and bangladesh. the european union, which is partly responsible for these social and environmental problems, must take the right measures, in cooperation with the imo, to put an end to social and environmental dumping due to economic incentives. there are urgent measures to be taken, to put constraints on ship recycling, and this must include certification and notification requirements. the future recycling perspective must be taken into account in the design and construction of ships, and the ship recycling facilities must also be planned. there is an urgent need to establish a list of facilities which would be considered the best for this, in terms of human rights, health and safety. and then, of course, without wanting to deprive south asia of this great market, we must also provide for installations in european shipyards so that we can recover what is waste ourselves and then develop what could be called an ecologically rational dismantling, all of which serves as the basis for an international agreement.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, i apologize for the delay, but i tried to respect the speed to respect the climate. our main debate today is about the scientific evidence on climate change. and i would first like to thank my colleague karl-heinz florenz for his remarkable work and also his constant commitment to this issue. my dear colleagues, the scientific knowledge on climate change is now established. the majority of experts now believe that we can no longer doubt that global warming is real and that it is largely caused by human activities. some disagreeing voices are raised to question the reality of this phenomenon, but without any real evidence. the interim report by the european parliament's temporary committee on climate change is the first phase of a process that will lead to the search for solutions. we almost all agree that the global temperature increase should be limited to two degrees above pre-industrial values, keeping in mind the fact that we should, in fact, aim for a target of less than two degrees. but the debate on change cannot be reduced to a battle of numbers. when we talk about climate, we talk about the melting of the arctic ice sheet, desertification, global warming, the movement of animal species, but above all the phenomena that could have catastrophic consequences for the movement of human beings. this is a major challenge for all of humanity. the regions most seriously affected will be the poorest countries in africa, asia and central and latin america, where environmental migration is expected. with the increase in extreme weather events, a new kind of refugee is about to emerge. it's not going to be political refugees, it's not going to be economic migrants, it's going to be climate refugees. and with the reduction in the area of arable land, the food crisis threatens. with the decline of fresh water resources, tensions could increase, wars could break out, with control of resources at stake. our responsibility is immense. it is no longer about questioning the fact of climate change, but about working together to find solutions and to put those solutions into practice. and the climate-energy package tabled by the commission in january is currently being discussed in parliament's environment and industry committees: emissions trading scheme, climate burden sharing, carbon capture and storage and renewable energy. the members of our epp-ed group in these committees and the epp group as a whole are working actively. we expect a lot from these discussions and are determined to join our efforts so that a compromise can be found at the first reading. it is essential that an agreement be reached between parliament and the council before the european elections. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has assumed the role of global leader in the fight against climate change vis-à-vis its global partners and it is essential that it remains so. if we do not take our role seriously and urge the united states on the one hand and the powers, as you have mentioned, commissioner, china and india on the other, to join us in the fight against climate change, who will? europe must present itself united, in order of march, at the international conference in poznań in december 2008, which will foreshadow the agreement we hope to sign in copenhagen in december 2009. the challenge is global, but europe is the power capable of pushing its partners to join it in this fight and we must prepare the future for our children and grandchildren.
madam president, the report by our colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, is thorough, honest and courageous at a crucial moment for turkey, and i pay tribute to her. but this relationship is one of a kind that, in my opinion, is becoming increasingly unreal. the european parliament and many others with it continue to pretend that our tireless teaching can change turkey! because that's what this is about: the contradiction between this country, this nation, this great people, its evolution and the project that we want to lead together. turkey is a nation state, one of the last, one of the strongest, one of the most conscious. the unity of the armenian people is nationalist, and this is evident in the recognition of the armenian genocide. its politics are increasingly inspired by a single religion, while it is moving away from the secularism which was the very basis of its constitution. it is a desire for independence, whereas we here want to implement a principle of integration, delegation of powers and sovereignty. there's a fundamental head-on collision between the two. we must stop deluding ourselves, we must stop telling the turks everything and everything else, and making them believe that we are ready either to accept their accession without really fulfilling the copenhagen criteria or to refuse it because of them, when it is basically about us, what we want the european project to become. and let us define a sustainable partnership structure which, in a win-win spirit, allows turkey to assume its role as a regional power and the european union to continue to build its identity in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the balance of this report, which sends a positive signal to turkey. the socialists will be attentive to the fact that the accession negotiations will proceed positively under the french presidency. it is precisely because we want membership that there must be no shadow zone on events affecting our common democratic values. it is unacceptable that intellectuals like the armenian-born journalist hrant dink should risk their lives in order to speak about certain periods of turkish history. it is also unacceptable to hear an official thesis persisting which trivializes the armenian genocide as a great tragedy and which puts the suffering of a people whose number of deportees is equal to that of the british flu victims on the back of the hand. with the philosopher bernard-henri lévy, i think that the denial of genocide is a constituent part of the genocide itself. i therefore urge the turkish authorities to take the reasonable path of truth which will contribute to the rehabilitation of all national minorities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, because turkey is part of european history, because turkey is part of european culture, because turkey is an economic and demographic opportunity for the european union, this pro-accession position allows me to be even more demanding: demanding respect for democratic principles, demanding secularism, demanding human rights. the european union was built on values and principles which we cannot deny by deafening silence in the name of diplomacy, by way of an accession procedure. turkey must recognize the armenian genocide as a historic and symbolic act, which will be a sign of its political maturity. since june 1987 the european parliament has spoken with conviction and force about this recognition. after 21 years, should we arrive at a flat formula? if we accept, parliament will back down. i urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for amendment no 23, to say forcefully to the authorities... (the president cut off the speaker)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, i would simply like to say to the honourable member that there is a right to strike in the european union and that right to strike is a right to strike, and yet it is incredible that a state should be asked to draw up a calendar of days of strike in a country. this is ridiculous, ridiculous! and i mean, i mean to say to the honourable member that there have been a lot of days when the belgian workers, the belgian employees have gone on strike, and then where would we go with this parliament if the belgians go on strike? this is a ridiculous debate. if he wants to go home, he'll go home. if he wants to stay, he'll stay one more day and eat asparagus. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are in the european year of intercultural dialogue, which includes interreligious dialogue. and as such, i ask you, as the european parliament, to lead by example and to respect minorities. that is why, in a spirit of compromise and goodwill towards our orthodox friends, my group proposes the following amendment to the calendar of the 2009 sessions. the seventeenth plenary week of april 2009 will begin on 21 april and end on 24 april, i want to say no more, in order to allow the members concerned to celebrate the orthodox easter. on behalf of all the countries with an orthodox tradition, i thank you for your support and i ask you not to make any further polemics, but i ask for the support of the european parliament, in respect of the rights of minorities, in order to set an example for our fellow european citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a similar proposal. i am surprised that the argument for minority rights is so morally based. there are about seven jewish holidays that cannot be observed while working. there are 13 protestant holidays. the constituent assembly is on july 14th. it's one of the biggest secular holidays. can we work in france on july 14th, if we remember the french revolution? i think that is impossible and wrong and that needs to be changed. there you go. (applause from the centre)
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to bring forward the mercury export ban to 15 march 2011, three months before the date proposed by the council. mercury can be obtained from the recycling of waste (e.g. fluorescent bulbs, batteries), from the purification of natural gas or from the industrial processing of non-ferrous metals. i welcome the fact that this ban covers, in addition to metallic mercury, mercury-containing products which cannot be sold or marketed in the european union, cinnabar ore or mercury compounds. it is also very important that compounds used in research and development, medicine or analysis are not covered by the ban, as the report stresses. finally, as regards storage, it is essential that it be secure, as the report and the council suggest. mercury waste should be temporarily stored for more than one year in deep, underground and rock salt mines or in surface facilities, in such a way as to exclude any risk to human health and the environment, before being treated.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent german colleague, mr hartmut nassauer, drawn up at first reading under the codecision procedure, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law. i support the position to reinsert the scheme in the strict field of community law by limiting the effect of the directive to cases of infringement of community environmental law only and, therefore, leaving it to the member states to determine the penalties to be applied in the event of infringement of that law. this is the wise position of the court of justice of the european communities which held that the eu has the power to adopt criminal measures only in cases where there is a 'justified need'; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. it is useful to point out that the directive aims to oblige the member states to provide for criminal penalties in their national legislation for serious infringements of the provisions of community law relating to the protection of the environment, without creating any obligations relating to the application of such penalties which may be invoked in individual cases.
in writing. the adoption of a common criminal law within the european union, thus depriving member states of their sovereign and exclusive right to determine independently what types of behaviour they consider to be a criminal offence, as well as the possibility of defining the qualifications and limits of criminal sanctions, is underway. the court of justice of the european communities, by a coup de force, with its judgment of 13 september 2005 in the so-called "environmental protection" case, granted itself a right to intervene in the criminal law of the member states in cases of infringement of environmental legislation. the new stage is now to establish a harmonised set of offences which should be punishable by criminal law in all member states, and to harmonise these criminal sanctions in the case of environmental offences. the court has taken power and handed it over to the commission, in defiance of the peoples, the national constitutions, the parliaments and the proper application of the law. we are sovereignists and are committed to defending the freedoms and the right of peoples to self-determination, and we reject these methods.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my hungarian colleague, gábor harangozo, which amends, at first reading by codecision, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods. i support the idea of allowing derogations for member states that would like to carry out the survey on the structure of agricultural holdings in 2009 rather than in 2010 because of the decennial population census in 2011. i am also in favour of all the simplifications proposed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my romanian colleague, silvia adriana ticau, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules on the conditions for the exercise of the occupation of road haulage operator. the former directive 96/26/ec on access to the occupation of road haulage operator and its four regulations on access to the transport market, together with the deregulation of international road transport prices a few years earlier, shaped the internal road transport market but with a minimum degree of road transport quality, while the market opening organised by the regulations encouraged more competition. experience has shown that these measures are poorly or unevenly applied because they are ambiguous, incomplete or have become unsuitable for the development of the sector. companies remain subject to unequal supervision and controls across member states with very different levels of professional qualification and financial soundness. it was therefore urgent to legislate requiring the conditions of good repute, financial and professional capacity and establishing mutual recognition of some of the documents required for the authorisation to practise.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my excellent colleague mathieu grosch on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules for access to the international road haulage market which aims to merge the texts regulating access to the international road haulage and cabotage market is currently governed by old regulations and directive. in the internal market, international transport between member states is fully liberalized, but certain restrictions on cabotage still exist. i welcome these clarifications and simplifications and the fact that the framework for sanctions for offences committed in member states other than the member state of establishment is being strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my british colleague fiona hall, who did an excellent job and amended, at first reading under the co-decision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services (mss). as rapporteur for my political group, the epp-ed, i have fought for the best possible geographical coverage of services throughout the union. i am pleased to have been able to help to require that applications should include a commitment that the proposed system will provide coverage of at least 60% of the territory of a single member state at the time the service is set up. in addition, the proposed system must provide coverage of all member states and at least 50% of the population and at least 60% of a single link in each member state by the date set by the applicant but no later than seven years after the publication of the text. finally, applications must include a commitment to allow the use of the proposed mobile satellite services by civil protection and disaster relief services.
in writing. the adoption of this decision is a decisive step towards strengthening the internal market for electronic communications. the goal is simple: to provide broadband internet access for all and to provide mobile multimedia and civil protection services in the event of natural or man-made disasters. the measures taken are in line with the expectations of our citizens, particularly as regards access to the internet: coverage of 50% of the population and at least 60% of each member state is a guarantee that the digital divide will be effectively reduced, including for the benefit of rural areas. this decision is all the more successful as it contributes to greater harmonisation of the management of radio spectrum at european level, which, it should be remembered, is an increasingly scarce resource. it is also the result of the desire of all the member states to provide the telecommunications industries with the means to build a market for services at european level, a market which has hitherto been too fragmented. in the end, mss should be a success both at the industrial level and in terms of strengthening cultural diversity and media pluralism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my german colleague klaus-heiner lehne on simplifying the legal, accounting and auditing environment for companies, in response to the european commission's communication on the same subject. like my colleagues, i welcome the commission's general objective of reducing the administrative burden on european businesses. but this reduction must not come at the cost of legal or accounting uncertainty at the moment when small and mediumsized enterprises begin to penetrate the internal market. i am glad that parliament did not consider raising the thresholds set by the communication for micro-entities below which they are exempt from the obligation under european law to submit accounts, to have their accounts audited annually and to publish them. finally, i welcome the fact that parliament voted on an amendment which i had proposed in committee and which was not voted on and which recommends that a consultation be organised to examine the need and the possibility of creating a european regulator in the accounting and auditing services.
in writing. false truths, erroneous statements, sexist remarks and stigmatising of men in a primary way - in a few words, although brutal - this is the substance of the report presented to us. equality between men and women and better integration of women into the working environment cannot be conceived in an authoritarian and repressive way. the results can only be negative and counterproductive. it is true that delays in integration, pay gaps and lack of career profiles are a problem for women, particularly in the specific case of the science and research sector. but once again, it is through consultation, the introduction of non-binding measures to encourage long and scientific studies for young girls and the active support of women throughout their careers that the place of women in society will finally change.
in writing. i voted in favour of the interim report by my german colleague karl-heinz florenz on the scientific evidence on climate change in the european parliament's temporary committee. scientific consensus on the origins and causes of climate change is well established and globally recognised. scientific evidence from all continents and most oceans shows that many natural ecosystems are already affected by regional climate change due to historical carbon emissions from industrialized countries. it has also been scientifically proven that the underlying causes of global warming are largely man-made. i am pleased that the report stresses the need for further analysis and research on the consequences of climate change such as the impact on economic competitiveness, energy costs and social change in europe, the role of land use, the role of forests and deforestation, the role of the marine environment and the calculation of the external costs of climate change from industry, and in particular transport, including quantification of the impacts of air pollution.
in writing. in the 1960s, the french parliament, having benefited from planning, voted each year on a growth rate for the economy and thought of deciding on it, because it happened that for several years in a row the real growth was the one it had voted for. i have the same impression reading mr florenz's report: that this parliament intends to vote on the global temperature! let us be clear: what i am criticizing is not the need for man to take care of his environment, to preserve the immense diversity of nature or, for economies, to find ways of using natural resources better and saving them. it's the ritual sacrifice to the new climate religion and its new gurus, these mind-oriented scientists who cast anathema on anyone whose work goes against their untouchable conclusions. it is the systematic stigmatization of man, as evil, and especially of western and european man. it's institutionalized repentance. it is the industrial and economic suicide of europe alone on the altar of so-called global warming, with no benefit for the environment at world level, but with the worst human and social consequences for the european populations. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i abstained on my dutch colleague ria oomen-ruijten's own-initiative report on the 2007 report on turkey's progress towards accession, although, like our committee on foreign affairs, i welcome prime minister erdogan's commitment to make 2008 the year of reforms and for turkey to transform into a modern and prosperous democracy, based on a secular state, and a pluralistic society. but it is worth recalling turkey's commitment to good neighbourly relations with greece and bulgaria and the need to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus question on the basis of the principles on which the eu is founded. turkey has also failed to respond to calls for an end to the economic blockade against armenia and for a reconciliation process with armenia, allowing for a frank and open debate on past events. these negotiations are important for the eu and turkey as the latter is acquiring the acquis communautaire. however, these negotiations must in no case prejudge the final political decision on turkey's accession to the union.
in writing. the comments made by mrs oomen-ruijten in her report on turkey's progress towards accession demonstrate, if need be, that turkey, with its civilization, its mentality, its traditions - which are quite respectable - is not a european country. and we must not look elsewhere for the reason for the immense difficulties encountered in the accession negotiations. the french presidency of the union, which will begin on 1 july, could have been an opportunity to remove this fundamental ambiguity: the fiction of turkey's european vocation inscribed in the 1963 treaty. mr sarkozy, betraying his campaign promises, now says he wants to continue negotiations, and even start new ones on all the chapters which are not "directly related to membership", in a phrase as demagogic as it is hypocritical which solves no problem. who will be led to believe that we are only discussing 'almost membership'? it is to be feared that the maintenance in the french constitution of the obligation to consult the people on any new accession to europe is only intended to make the citizens alone responsible for the result of 45 years of political and diplomatic cowardice attributable not to turkey itself but to their governments alone.
in writing. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten illustrates the autism of the leaders of europe in brussels, denying the obvious: turkey is an asian country. this blindness leads them to deny the foreseeable consequences of such adherence. turkey, with more than 100 million inhabitants in 2020, will be the most populous state in the european union and, therefore, the most important in the european institutions. our assembly is thus in danger of being dominated not by the epp or the socialists but by the islamists of the akp. turkey will also be the most assisted country: its regions will absorb the bulk of the structural funds and its ten million farmers will complete the destruction of the common agricultural policy. the rejection of reality also leads our governments to ignore the will of the peoples of europe. thus, after imposing on the french the european constitutional treaty they had rejected in 2005, sarkozy is preparing to delete article 88.5 of the constitution, subjecting the entry of a new state into the european union to a referendum. if brussels succeeds in forcing turkey to join, then we should propose to our nations that they leave this whole thing, which would have nothing european but the name, in order to build another europe, a european europe: the europe of the homelands.
in writing. by voting against the report of the foreign affairs committee on the situation in turkey, the french delegation of the ump wanted to say that the commission, the governments and the european parliament were wrong to continue to feed the illusion of turkish membership. the ump did not oppose the report by ria oomen-ruijten, which is of high quality, but the refusal to take into account the reality of turkey and its policy which is in contradiction with the project of european integration.
in writing. i voted against this report and the motion for a resolution to make clear once again my opposition to turkey's membership of the european union in principle. the european commission, the governments of the member states and the european parliament are wrong to continue to feed this illusion, which is misleading turkish citizens as much as european citizens. i refuse to be part of a political approach which does not take into account the realities of turkey and its policy, which is in contradiction with the european project. if europe is a space of shared values, it is not acceptable to turn a blind eye to the worrying deviations of the turkish authorities, whether it is the foundations of the rule of law, freedom of expression and thought or respect for the rights of minorities. the turkish authorities' failure to meet their responsibilities is a strategic error which distances them from the progress that needs to be made, not in order to join the european union, but in order for the turkish people to enjoy respect for their fundamental rights and the economic and social development of their country. a privileged partnership with turkey will help to achieve these objectives, while respecting the integrity of each party.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i think we need to be a little more specific in the way we talk about the issue, for example the concept of neutrality. we are not neutral. if we are for the burmese people, we are in fact against the military junta. since the military junta does not want to help the burmese people, we are against the military junta. we should not - and that is how we are perceived. louis michel had a two-and-a-half-hour interview. it is surreal, the whole story: he tells us that he is making a trip, we receive him for two and a half hours, etc., we tell him that the airport "machin" cannot be mobilized in 24 hours in sarajevo, we provided technical facilities to open an airport well, that is really not the problem. so it is clear that today we are in a special situation, and i agree: the duty to protect means that the military junta is committing a crime against humanity, against its own people. it's working. we shall see in the public debates that follow what happens to this. but it is true that the international court of justice must be seized of this case which is obvious and what is interesting is that in doing so we are addressing the security council and that the protectors of burma china are indeed speaking a somewhat understandable language. indeed, china may have done well to open its borders, in a way, but at the same time, it continues to protect burma and it continues to protect a government that is slaughtering its own people. so i think that in this situation it is obvious that nobody knows how to impose food. but you have to push, all the pressure. even the possible delivery of humanitarian aid manu militari, in a certain way, gives us the opportunity as well as the asian countries to put pressure on burma. i think today, what louis michel just said was explicit: "always speak my love, i listen to you, but i don't care about it at all". that is what he told us in his diplomatic way, which i fully respect. but today, the burmese government is deaf. he doesn't want to listen, he doesn't show interest it's been said for a constitutional referendum. it's making fun of everyone. so from there onwards, the pressure must be as strong as possible and then we must ask for the consequences to be drawn at the level of the security council and at the level of the international criminal court in the hague.
for the greens/efa group madam president, on the occasion of this terrible earthquake, which is affecting china and the world, the authorities have, for the first time, shown their transparency, taken the measure of the tragedy, with a massive relief deployment that the european union and the entire international community are trying to support as best they can. however, one can hear very strong criticism coming from china about the poor quality of buildings, mostly the newer ones and public places, such as schools, which has resulted in the disappearance of thousands of students, leaving very few survivors. this disaster highlights the poor quality of construction, an extremely sensitive issue in china where millions of people have been expropriated in large cities, in the run-up to crucial events such as the olympic games. other troubling questions - you said it - hang over this drama: the strength of the waterworks, especially the zipingpu concrete dam, now raises fears of the worst for the 600,000 people living 10 kilometres downstream from the dam. the earthquake is reported to have damaged 391 tanks. the plutonium enrichment sites in the north-east of sichuan province, about which little information is available at present despite their proximity to the epicentre, are also a cause for great concern. on these crucial issues, would it not be appropriate to guarantee an independent international expertise, an objective state of affairs, while the chinese authorities maintain a certain opacity and reassuring official statements?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly saddened by natural disasters when they cause many victims, as recently happened in china and burma. they remind us of the value of all human life and of the fact that nature is beyond our control. we send a message of sympathy to those suffering from natural and political disasters. one of the purposes of politics is to ward off the public misfortunes of the people for whom it is responsible. thus, while it cannot avoid natural disasters, it can try to predict them, to alert the population and, above all, it is up to it to minimize the risks through responsible preventive policies. for example, china's promethean infrastructure such as its huge hydroelectric dams and nuclear power plants have stood the test of time. but for how much longer? is it not better to increase the number of smaller works to spread the risk, to increase public awareness of the risks involved? but the most tragic situation for the chinese people is related to political casualties. while recognizing the admirable character of this industrious and skilful people, the fineness of their culture and without interfering in the internal politics of this country, we can judge political acts. the calamitous one-child policy is a major disaster. it affects children, the many peasants forced to kill their daughters, a lower source of income that does not ensure the sustainability of the farm and the pension, or the second child, who has no right to exist on creon's orders. what a violation of human rights when a political order forbids parents to have as many children as they wish! here again, life is not considered at its true value, but only in a utilitarian function. but here, natural disaster and political disaster come together when the roof of a school crushes the only child and leaves the parents helpless. when the 30,000 journalists expected to be in beijing for the olympic games take the trouble to look beyond appearances at the reality of this country which, in its desire for power and efficiency, is in danger of losing all respect for the human person, the real foundation of the political order.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of this report and today's debate are designed to hide a glaring reality in the union: industry is in crisis and the damage it is causing is considerable. the figures put forward are certainly dreamy: 80%, 73%. it could have been replaced by billions of dollars, and everyone would have seen it. but no one is fooled! they only serve to mask the real state of affairs. one of the major concerns facing the industrial sector as a whole is that the only element that matters is the profit rate. endangered, the race of industrial captains replaced by grim talking slot machines! whatever decisions are made and their consequences for the women and men in our territory, the benefits must be maximum and immediate. of course, some will say that the masses invested, produced, traded and earned by industry have never been so large. true, but what does a huge financial pile benefiting a few mean when the majority of our people suffer and see their dreams of a little happiness fly away? it is clear that the question of employment is absent from this report, as are the notions of spatial planning, the needs of the population, tax and social revenue. the reason is that the commercial successes of the large european industrial groups are now contributing less and less to development in the union. the major european groups are relocating and outsourcing to countries which practice wage, social, health, fiscal and ecological dumping, and in the meantime the european union is refusing any industrial policy. this policy also stifles smes and encourages them to do the same. it's obvious, these aren't the... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in turin i was able to appreciate the excellent work of the foundation, which is an indispensable and very effective instrument for the development of vocational training systems in the union's partner countries. the commission's draft updates its tasks and governance so that its action is based on a sound legal basis. the compromise reached with the council brings two essential advances in my view. firstly, the new regulation will enable the foundation to intervene in all the union's partner countries, including beyond the framework of the neighbourhood policy or pre-accession programmes. this is a crucial point. the union takes decisions, for example, which have a direct impact on the economies of its acp partners. i shall not learn from commissioner louis michel that this is what has recently happened with the reform of the sugar cmo, which has forced these countries to undertake a thorough diversification of their industrial activity. the training foundation could have usefully contributed to this development and will be able to do so in the future in cases of a similar nature. the second contribution of the compromise, which i particularly welcome, is a genuine involvement of members in the monitoring of the foundation's activities. this is a matter that is beyond the scope of this agency. parliament has only one occasion, often a very poor one, to look at the functioning of the agencies when it votes on the budget and on discharge. however, i think it is no longer possible, especially with the forthcoming entry into force of the lisbon treaty, for parliament not to be more involved in the substance of the matters dealt with by the agencies. that is why, in the specific case of the foundation, parliament will now appoint three representatives, without voting rights, but three representatives on the board of directors, provided that they are particularly competent in the areas of activity of the foundation. parliament is free to appoint either outside figures or members. he will be responsible for choosing the level of representation he intends to promote on the management board. the main thing at this stage is that the choice is now open and that the debate on parliament's involvement is launched. the multiplication of agencies must necessarily lead all the european institutions to eliminate the means of controlling their action. in this context, i am convinced of the need to create a real link between parliament and the agencies. in the same spirit, the new regulation aims to formalise the hearings of the foundation director before parliamentary committees. for several years now, this director has been speaking once a year in parliament at the invitation of the employment committee, but this invitation has not been formalised until now. finally, the director will be appointed for five years by the management board on the basis of a list of at least three candidates submitted by the commission and, before being appointed, the candidate selected by the management board will have to make a statement before the competent committees of the european parliament and answer questions put by the members of those committees. let's be honest with each other. the compromise we have reached on parliament's involvement is not what i would have liked. but you have to face the facts. at the present stage of the debate, the minds are not yet ready to go any further. it is therefore reasonable to support the negotiated package to enable the foundation to operate as quickly as possible on a sound basis. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt compromise amendment no 11, the result of the trilogue to which commissioner michel referred earlier, to adopt it as a whole, and not to give in to the temptation that an amendment might call into question the balance achieved. i would like to thank the slovenian presidency and the commission for the quality of the dialogue we have had on these issues and, of course, all my fictitious colleagues for their support.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i think we are all, or at least almost all, on the same page on the substance of the matter and i thank you for what you have just said about the foundation's future prospects. there is one point which is obviously still outstanding, and on which i would like to make a comment, and that is the epp's amendment no 10. the dialogue between the european institutions is absolutely essential. that conversation took place. my colleague mr kusstatscher says that the council's attitude during this dialogue was not exactly what we might have expected. he is right, but in the end there was a trilogue, we had several meetings and at the end of those meetings we reached an agreement. and i do not think that there can be any dialogue between our institutions if, when we give an agreement, we take it back a few days later by tabling an amendment. so we debated, we did not agree on everything, we took a step towards each other, and we finally reached a compromise text. i ask the groups, all the groups, to accept the idea that we are in solidarity in the decision, in the agreement we gave to the council and the commission at the end of the trilogue and i ask that this solidarity be reflected in the votes. when you ask for progress, you also have to know how far you can go. i said earlier that i would have preferred to go a little further, but that i considered that not everything was ready in the minds to do so. as rapporteur for this text, having obtained a great deal and having had the support of my colleagues in this work, i ask them to remain in solidarity with our compromise agreement until the time of the vote.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our discussions on aid effectiveness have been marked in recent weeks by the dramatic news of the world food crisis. this crisis is a stark reminder that if we are not able to ensure the most basic right of all, that of living and eating properly, then our development aid efforts will be in vain. in this report, mr van hecke, whose work i welcome, points out that only a long-term strategy will make it possible to give real support to the development of our partner countries. in the field of food, public health and education, only sustainable solutions can address the root causes of the current crisis. the many amendments tabled by the pse have supported the rapporteur's position and strengthened it on certain points. we have thus reiterated that our priority objective must be the achievement of the millennium development goals, the first of which is the eradication of poverty and hunger. to do this, and to make aid more effective, it must be better adapted to the local context, as close as possible to the terrain and to the needs of the local population. this is why i recalled the need to better consult national parliaments, civil society and local authorities in the formulation, implementation and evaluation of development policies. it is also essential to combat corruption effectively and to make aid more transparent. in concrete terms, we ask the commission to produce a matrix of all funds allocated to local governance in order to verify policy coherence and the proper management of these funds. finally, because the debate on the best effectiveness of aid is inseparable from the debate on the amount, i would like to recall - as was said earlier - and condemn the unjustifiable reduction in official development aid between 2006 and 2007, from 0.41% to 0.38% in europe. the accra summit, commissioner, will be political. it will be a unique opportunity for donor countries to reaffirm their commitment. it's our responsibility to be on time and not disappoint our partners.
, in writing. in 2005, the paris declaration set out specific commitments to promote greater effectiveness of development aid, based on dialogue and mutual accountability. this international framework is essential for the eu, which provides over 55% of total global development aid. the ep also calls for simplification of procedures, the fight against corruption and the disbursement of aid according to the partners' own priorities, in order to further improve the quality and effectiveness of this aid. these measures are more than necessary even though member states' development aid has been somewhat reduced from 0.41% to 0.38% of eu gni between 2006 and 2007. with the food crisis affecting the most vulnerable in developing countries and access to water and education remaining limited, it is understandable that the eu needs to redouble its efforts to meet the mdg target of devoting 0.7% of its gni to development aid by 2015. similarly, for aid to take the form of long-term and predictable financing, it is vital to provide additional resources through innovative financing and to mobilise sovereign funds for productive investment.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the rapporteur. - mr president, we have had many discussions with the commission and the council with the idea of reaching agreement at first reading. the vote on this amendment calls that agreement into question. we shall have to go to a second reading because it is obvious, the council has told us, that it will not accept this position. i regret this situation and in the face of the problem of not renouncing a good part of the text we adopted in the first amendment but respecting the word given to the council, i recommend abstention.
we take note of your communication, but we shall continue the vote.
mr. guardans cambó, you know how much i respect and appreciate you, but really, i'm the guarantor of the procedure here. i cannot reopen the debate on a comparative analysis of two resolutions, you will understand. i'm sorry about that.
i would suggest that, since you have spoken before we have reached the point at issue, you should insert this remark before paragraph 4. can you be more specific about the exact point?
this is not an amendment but a separate vote, as requested by the alde group.
that's good news. so it is the joint motion for a resolution by six political groups, including the epp, which is intended to replace all the motions for resolutions on this subject, with the exception of motion for a resolution b6-0223/2008.
i simply stated, and you have noticed the position of my group, so i was completely neutral in this matter, that colleagues should stand up and remain standing, because if they stand up for half a second and sit down, it is impossible for us to count them. so i didn't suggest they get up, but stay on their feet once they got up. and i did the exact same thing for the other count just now, for the other side of the house.
i was merely pointing out that yesterday this debate was on the agenda but as no speakers appeared, the debate did not take place. that is why it is important to give the floor to the chairman of the committee concerned.
all right, you're right to specify that. the speakers were present but the committee concerned had withdrawn this item.
before proceeding to the explanations of vote, i would like to inform you that the conference of presidents has decided, in accordance with rule 127 (3), to change the calendar of sittings for this year and to convene an extraordinary plenary session on tuesday 24 june from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. the council will be discussing the results of the european council on 19 and 20 june and the results of the six-month slovenian presidency.
in writing. the global food crisis (83% price increase) which is currently translating into hunger riots in developing countries and a reduction in the purchasing power of the most modest european consumers is, in my view, linked to: - unprecedented stock market speculation on the prices of basic food products, which unacceptably takes advantage of tensions and high volatility in agricultural markets; - the development of energy crops at the expense of essential food crops; - the shortcomings of european development policy; - the fact that support for export crops in developing countries has come at the expense of food crops and food self-sufficiency; and - the current rules of world trade which create particularly unfair conditions for small farmers, especially in developing countries. beyond emergency action, we must, in the context of the cap health check, redefine our means of intervention on world markets (infrastructure, intervention stocks, risk management, prospects and economic modelling of price developments, etc.), reverse the decoupling of aid and rethink our agricultural production models globally so that they are productive and sustainable.
in writing. at a time when food price rises are of the greatest concern, a european parliament resolution is needed more than ever. on the one hand, the food shortages that are occurring in many parts of the world are simply unacceptable. urgent measures must be proposed to put an end to the famine which is afflicting the most vulnerable people in developing countries at this very moment. in addition to these emergency measures, which will not provide a long-term solution to the problem, the eu must put in place a strategy, in agreement with international organisations (including the world bank, the imf, fao and the wto). a comprehensive strategy that will have to take account of all the causes of the crisis: changing eating habits in asia, the rapid growth of biofuel crops, etc. on the other hand, the worrying rise in the price of the consumer basket within the european union provides an opportunity for a thorough reflection on the reform of the common agricultural policy. at the time of the health check, concrete proposals must be made to stop this inflation within the internal market itself, but also to ensure the eu's food self-sufficiency.
in writing. i supported the wojciechowski report on a new animal health strategy. as the member for massif central-centre, i am particularly concerned about the current outbreak of bluetongue in europe, which is very serious because of its duration, its spread, the spread of the various serotypes of the disease in previously free areas and the serious socioeconomic consequences of restrictions on the movement of livestock and trade. i think that the commission, as part of an animal health action plan, must improve its capacity to respond to such serious animal diseases by means of research funding, compensation for losses, advance payments, etc. i voted against amendment no 12 which mentions that the transport of live animals over long distances is likely to increase the risks and that the transport time for animals destined for slaughter should be capped at nine hours. on the other hand, i voted for amendment no 3, which states that the quality of transport is more important than the duration of the transport for the welfare of animals. there is a specific regulation on this matter, and we must monitor its application.
in writing. after extensive debate and numerous amendments tabled in comagri, the wojciechowski report, as adopted, proposes substantial changes to the european commission's proposals. these amendments bring a certain balance to the report and will make it possible to modify and improve effectively the legislative framework governing animal health in the european union. on the question of high concentrations of animals in intensive farming systems, the comagri vote moderated the rapporteur's initial position, recognising that they can be problematic when inappropriate disease control measures are implemented. the amendment tabled in plenary on behalf of the epp-ed, concerning the transport of animals over long distances, should also allow the eu to limit the unnecessary suffering of animals destined for slaughter, while maintaining excellent health conditions. the other measures proposed in the report, such as encouraging the use of emergency vaccination, increasing the sense of responsibility of farmers or clarifying the role of each individual in financing the future strategy, are in the right direction and are likely to strengthen eu legislation on animal health.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr high representative, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, if, as we hope, the treaty of lisbon enters into force on 1 january 2009, a new era will open for the union's common foreign and security policy. the introduction of this policy was a bold gamble, but it is precisely this approach that is gradually making the european union a global player. despite remarkable progress, europe still has a long way to go before it can become a world political power equal to its economic weight. as our colleague jacek saryusz-wolski points out in his excellent report, europe's role in the world is still far from reaching its true potential. in israel and palestine and all over the world, our interlocutors are calling for more europe. let us listen to their calls and, in order to be credible to these partners, the union must not only speak with one voice but also have the necessary instruments to make itself heard. its foreign policy must be given democratic legitimacy, which will be possible through the parliamentary control introduced by the lisbon treaty. ladies and gentlemen, we want a credible defence for europe, not to wage war, of course, but to ensure peace and, above all, to help the poorest of the world. our common security is no longer limited to military protection against external attack. it also concerns energy supply, the fight against global warming, migration management and the protection of human rights and civil liberties. the epp group is very keen that all the dimensions of this common security be taken into account. we believe that the union's foreign policy must first of all focus on our closest neighbours. we therefore call on the commission and the council to work towards strengthening the european neighbourhood policy and stabilising the situation in the western balkans. in particular, we must continue the dialogue with serbia on the one hand and continue to support kosovo on the other. the cooperation between the council and parliament has not always been simple on these subjects. the council has not always been as open and transparent as we would like, but our relations have nevertheless made great progress. the presidency of the council and the high representative now recognise that the union's foreign and security policy will emerge strengthened and more legitimate if it has the backing of our parliament. on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to call on the council to go further, to involve parliament in the discussions on the appointment of the first high representative and vice-president of the commission and to consult it properly. we also want parliament to be consulted on the modalities of setting up a european external action service. and as regards the implementation of the european security and defence strategy, our group calls on the high representative to issue a white paper assessing the strategy put in place in 2003. in the future treaty, we call for a strengthening of parliament's budgetary powers in all areas of union expenditure. we also call for instruments of parliamentary control and cooperation with the council. in a world dominated by regional powers, the european union must seize the unique opportunities offered by the new treaty instruments to assert itself as a political power that is both more homogeneous, and therefore more visible on the international scene, and more firm in its relations with its partners. the strengthening of parliamentary control will make this policy all the more effective as it will be more democratic and more transparent.
mr president, it is also a pleasure for me to speak in the presence of these delegations, because we have very close relations with them. it is precisely on the south caucasus, as you will have guessed, mr high commissioner, that i would like to focus my speech. we have heard good news that you are going to georgia tomorrow and the day after. it was high time that this was done and i would like to thank you for it. you are also going to abkhazia and you say that the weekend may not be enough to solve the problem. if you can do it in a weekend, congratulations. the task is indeed difficult, and we know it, but the most important thing is that the european union should be involved. in my view, this is a kind of test of the maturity of our foreign policy. we know that russia, which is a partner, is now involved in the conflict. according to the un report, georgia has agreed to suspend drone flights over abkhazia. on the other hand, we learned yesterday that russia has sent back russian defense forces to allegedly build railroads. in that case, i do not think it is possible to speak of peacekeeping forces. so the task is going to be a heavy one. you said that you would commit yourself alongside georgia to supporting the peace plan and the question, mr high commissioner, is this: will you also support, within the framework of this peace plan, the establishment of an abkhaz-georgian civil police under the supervision of the european union or the osce? this would be a real step forward which we have been waiting for for a long time for the european union in this conflict, because we are dealing with neighbouring countries. the question which arises today, and which our friends are asking us, is therefore: are we going to develop the neighbourhood policy as part of our foreign policy?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when parliament voted on the application of the gsp for the period 2005-2008, the commission did not consider it appropriate to revert to its proposals. we are reaffirming these priorities today, in particular the fact that this parliament must be more closely involved in the procedures for allocating and monitoring the various gsp schemes. the role of civil society representatives, including the social partners, must also be strengthened. they are an essential source of information when verifying the implementation of the main conventions that are a condition for the granting of gsp+. on this point, i welcome the fact that the new regulation is more firm on the respect of the standards of good governance: workers' rights, human rights and the environment. the union must promote its values and encourage its trading partners not only to ratify its conventions but also to implement them in practice. we therefore ask the commission to take up one of our proposals which is essential if the gsp+ is to remain an incentive. indeed, at present, a country that would not be eligible for gsp+ as early as 2009 would have to wait until the next regulation, in 2012, to apply again. we want to open up the possibility of submitting new applications every year so that developing countries have a real incentive to implement these conventions as soon as possible to benefit from gsp+. finally, i would like to stress the need to reform the rules of origin in order to propose a comprehensive and simplified harmonised system, focused on strengthening regional integration, which remains its primary purpose. thus, the calculations of national value added must take account of the special situation of poor countries which cannot benefit from too restrictive rules of origin. with the gsp, the union has acquired an instrument which not only promotes the integration of developing countries into world trade but also the dissemination of good governance practices. the proposals of this parliament would make it possible to make progress in both areas. we hope that they will be taken up by the commission.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague alain hutchinson on his excellent report. the year 2007 confirmed both the strengthening and the relevance of the role of the jpa on the main issues of the north-south dialogue. on the political crisis, for example, our emergency debates have enabled a thorough, constructive and taboo-free dialogue on the issues of haiti, zimbabwe and ethiopia. and the implementation of the regional assemblies, the first of which was held in namibia, i believe, will make it possible to further deepen this political dialogue. the national and regional strategy papers on the implementation of the edf have been submitted to acp parliaments since the end of 2007. the app must now adopt a strategy and a working method to ensure the best monitoring and control of the use of these funds. on economic partnership agreements, through its exchanges, its meetings with economic actors, civil society actors, through the open political dialogue with our parliamentary colleagues from the south, the apa made epas its political priority in 2007 and the kigali declaration, quoted by alain hutchinson earlier, is an illustration of this. i am also sorry that the european parliament has decided not to accept this declaration, which was negotiated and voted unanimously by the representatives of the various political groups present. it is true that for some people a position adopted in africa is sometimes more difficult to implement when they return to europe. i also regret that the european commission is deaf to what it is hearing from acp parliamentarians in the acp and that it prefers the bulldozer strategy. the commission, in preference to this strategy, refuses to consider renegotiating or reorienting the epas. and the proposal to create a new parliamentary body under the caribbean agreement adds to the confusion. finally, i cannot forget that 2007 will be the year in which official development aid for the whole of the union will be reduced for the first time since the year 2000, and i believe that in matters of international solidarity, what counts above all is the respect of the word given, and several member states - including mine - do not respect the word given. in 2008, the epa will have to continue its vigilant and determined fight, again for epas, by advocating a genuine renegotiation of the interim agreements, for those who wish to do so, in line with the commitment made by commissioner barroso. the 10th edf is now entering its active phase, its implementation phase, but is under threat of being cut off from its appropriations to finance the esf. the pap is therefore a unique place, a unique tool for north-south dialogue. it is a chance for equitable, sustainable and supportive development. that is all that my colleague alain hutchinson has to say, and i congratulate him again.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report. i am pleased to note the strong support of the committee on fisheries on this important proposal to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing. as you know, iuu fishing constitutes a major threat to the sustainability of fish stocks and marine biodiversity, which undermines the very essence of the common fisheries policy. i do not believe that it is necessary to expand any further on the disastrous global environmental and economic consequences of iuu fishing, as you are well aware of that. however, it is important to bear in mind that iuu fishing is a worldwide phenomenon, affecting in particular developing countries. this is why the proposal is a non-discriminatory instrument, applying to all community trade of fishery products deriving from iuu fishing, in all waters, and to all community nationals engaging in or supporting iuu fishing activities conducted under any flag. international cooperation is the key to the efficient elimination of iuu fishing. this is why the commission has already commenced bilateral contacts with third countries. the commission has also defined a working programme, in close cooperation with the development dg and europeaid, to support developing countries, in order to assist them with a smooth and successful implementation of the regulation, in particular with regard to the catch certification scheme. this working programme includes seminars and workshops in a large number of third countries. the commission can agree with nearly all amendments proposed, which are either covered by the proposal or which are incorporated in the presidency compromise text. i am extremely happy that the report supports, in particular, the implementation of the regulation to all vessels, its catch certification scheme and the harmonisation of sanctions. the inclusion of community vessels is an important feature which will ensure non-discrimination and consistency with wto rules. it is also important that the community demonstrates its seriousness in fighting iuu fishing activities, by including all vessels infringing conservation and management rules. the catch certification scheme is the instrument which will ensure the control of traceability of fishery products. inspired by current practices in regional fisheries management organisations and customs regulations, it must apply to all fishery products, including processed products, in order to be efficient. aquaculture products and products with marginal community trade will, however, be excluded from its scope. we can do this during final negotiations in council. harmonised sanctions will strengthen the ability of member states to take measures to prevent iuu activities and to ensure that any economic advantage will be more than offset by the fines imposed. the commission strongly believes that a system of dissuasive, proportionate and harmonised sanctions and accompanying measures is the key to compliance with the regulation. i would once again like to thank mrs aubert for the report and the committee for its attention on this very important issue. this report is a significant contribution to a truly efficient fight against iuu fishing.
the rapporteur. - madam president, the events taking place in brussels today show us how much the future of european fisheries is threatened if the european union is not able to implement sustainable management of fisheries resources and a fundamental reorientation of the policies pursued so far. the fight against iuu fishing is a major element of this more demanding and more coherent policy. however, the globalisation of trade, the free flow of financial flows and the development of transport and communications have led to a significant increase in illegal fishing activities in recent years. today the situation is no longer sustainable and european fishermen, as well as all the players in the sector, such as ngos, are unanimously calling for a more effective fight against this phenomenon, which accelerates the degradation of resources and is totally unfair competition compared to those who respect the rules. but it is little wonder that the member states have not been able, up to now, to monitor and punish illegal practices as they should have done, and the court of auditors' report published a few months ago is, in this respect, overwhelming. that is why the european commission's ambitious proposal, which was presented last october, was particularly well received by our committee, which had already adopted by an overwhelming majority an own-initiative report on the european union action plan to combat iuu fishing in february 2007. in fact, the commission's legislative proposal takes up the bulk of our recommendations and we welcome that. blacklists and the publication of these lists, reinforced control measures in port states, compulsory catch certificates for the flag state and thus refusal to import products from illegal fishing into the european community market, reinforced and harmonised sanctions, alert system, etc. the commission's proposal is therefore not lacking in much. but as you know, three points were the subject of intense debate in the council, particularly as regards the scope of application. i am glad that we have finally succeeded in maintaining the scope of application that you proposed, which applies to both community vessels and third country vessels. the catch certificate was also considered too burdensome or complex, and the level and nature of the penalties were also hotly debated. these questions have also been raised in our committee. but in the end, i think our amendments have made it possible to clarify the text while preserving the ambition and the main objectives of this new regulation. the report was voted unanimously and i would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent contribution to this result. this is a very strong signal that the european parliament wants to send today, in the midst of the crisis in the sector, and that it is particularly directed at the council, which has been too late in taking on responsibilities in this area. the fight against iuu fishing is only one part of a wider policy, which includes the control regulation and the regulation on serious infringements. this division has not helped to clarify the debate, to say the least. and we are still waiting for your clarification on how these three new regulations will be structured. similarly, concerns about the complexity of the capture certificate have not been just bad excuses to weaken the text or delay it. we need procedures that are understandable to all, that can be used by a sufficient number of competent staff, that are reliable and efficient, and that are also accessible to developing countries, which are the first victims of illegal fishing. we are also waiting for clarifications and commitments from you. finally, we count on your full determination, mr commissioner, and we know that it is strong, to bring an end to illegal fishing, particularly for bluefin tuna and cod, which are highly prized but are currently being overexploited. that is at least a concrete response, starting tonight, to the serious problems facing the fisheries sector at the moment. there is still a lot of work to be done, as you know, to ensure a sustainable future for european fisheries, but an important step will be taken in the coming weeks and i am delighted with you.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, the level of the debate on this important subject demonstrates that we share a strong commitment to address the issue of iuu in an effective and comprehensive manner. the truth of the matter is not only that iuu is an activity that threatens the sustainability of fish stocks, but it is also an activity that threatens the future of honest fishermen within and outside the european union. in order for us to be successful in our efforts, we must ensure three crucial principles. the first is that the scope of the proposal remains comprehensive. secondly, the certification scheme put in place must be effective yet ensure that there are no unnecessary burdens imposed as a result. and the sanctions scheme we proposed must be such that these can serve as effective punitive measures and, therefore, be dissuasive by their very nature. with regard to these three principles, i have heard confirmation that you have managed to sort out various issues with member states concerning the scope, the certification scheme and the sanctions. you have done so without diluting or diminishing the effectiveness of the proposal. specifically on the sanctions, let me say that one of the major problems with control is the fact that the range of sanctions applied by member states is so diverse that it is the sector itself which has consistently and constantly called for a level playing field in this area. it is for this reason that, at the very least, we have proposed levels which should be applied in a proportionate and in an effective manner. on the wider issue regarding the reform of the common fisheries policy, i can confirm that we have started reflecting on this and will be having an orientation debate in council in the coming months. in fact the idea is to have an informal ministerial meeting in september. we are also dealing with over-regulation, with a view to simplifying the regulatory regime that is in place. let me also say that i cannot agree more with the comment made by mrs aubert that the fight against iuu, if effective, will help fishermen to better face up to the problems and the difficulties they are now facing, and this point was made by certain other members who intervened. i also, however, agree that it is not sufficient. on the issue of developing countries, we are committed to addressing this issue effectively, as i said in my opening remarks. taking measures to assist developing countries is key if we are to solve the problem and not simply to displace it. as regards control issues, let me assure the rapporteur that the commission is coming up with a strong proposal during the third quarter of this year which will also be merged, or harmonised, with the iuu proposal that we have before us. in that way, both will be convergent and attain the same results. as regards the fuel crisis, we already have the possibility of medium- to long-term measures that are in place, and this would be in combination with the restructuring of the sector. we will be looking at the market measures in place – this point was raised by some members who intervened – which work in such a way that increased costs are borne by the fishermen and are not passed on to the consumer, as happens in other sectors. we therefore need to look into this in order to find out why. there are systems in place which bring about a situation whereby it is the fisherman who ends up suffering, who ends up having to bear the increased costs himself, rather than those being passed on to the consumers. we also offer fishermen some possibilities for providing immediate assistance, if this is linked to restructuring in the form of rescue and restructuring aid. however, i need to say here that i am also looking at this and am discussing it with my colleagues, with a view to trying to identify other ways and means whereby we can help fishermen face up to this new reality in the very short term. but i need to underline that we can only do this if there is a firm and a fixed-term commitment to restructuring, because the problem is also that of over-capacity. therefore, unless we tackle the problem of over-capacity, we will have a recurring problem for as long as fuel prices remain as they are, or – worse still – if they continue rising, as the indications suggest. this is what we have done with france, where agreement was reached between the commission and france on a package of measures which are intended to help the french fisheries sector to restructure. i have to admit that this was not enough and did not satisfy the french fishermen. i need to underline that, for the commission to respond, we also need the cooperation and active engagement of member states. we cannot act on our own. in this regard i understand that this crisis will be raised and discussed at the forthcoming june council, and i personally welcome it. on the question raised at the very end by mrs doyle concerning the application of subsidies by some member states and not others, the information that the commission has is that these subsidies that have been granted by different member states either fall within the parameters of the de minimis (and any member state can grant subsidies as long as they fall within the threshold of de minimis) or are under restructuring programmes to which i made reference before. there is the communication with regard to rescue and restructuring aid and, if agreement is reached – if the commission gives the green light to a restructuring programme – then there are certain possibilities with regard to subsidies, with regard to state assistance, which would not otherwise be possible. where we have had information with regard to other subsidies which are not covered either by de minimis or under restructuring programmes, we are investigating them. there has just been, for example, a notification to france that the amount which was paid in the form of an insurance scheme has to be re-collected. so we do take action in order to see to it that the european rules with regard to competition are properly observed. however, i would end by saying that the immediate crisis is such that we need to address it very carefully in order to find ways and means whereby we try to find solutions of an immediate nature but which would also have the conditionality that there is a firm commitment within the short term for the fisheries sector to restructure in order to bring about capacity levels to match what can sustainably be fished out of the seas.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i should like to begin by thanking all the members who took part in the debate, and the commissioner. of course, we also discussed the serious crisis the sector is currently facing, which is quite normal, and i thank the commissioner for answering the questions that have been asked about this as precisely as possible, although of course it is difficult to go into detail in some respects. in any case, in this context, it is regrettable that the european union - brussels, as they say - is systematically blamed for all the ills and i think that we have a good opportunity here to show that the european union, brussels, is not part of the problem, but above all part of the solution. it is true that when we see the resentment that can be felt towards the european union, we realise how the member states and many players in the sector have for years evaded their responsibilities by favouring very short-term interests, thinking that they will benefit for a while, but refusing to see that in doing so they were driving an entire sector to the edge of the abyss. now we're here. how can we find immediate solutions to a problem that has persisted for years? it's not easy. you've been following a few leads. but we will not get out of this unless we take strict and demanding measures, unless we use all the necessary means, because these texts will not be implemented without financial and human resources, while adopting sanctions that are much more dissuasive than they are today in relation to illegal fishing, and this will not be very difficult, given the very low number of infringements and fines that have been taken in recent times. it will also be necessary to encourage and reward much more, to pay much more for behaviour, for smart, sustainable practices, and often fishermen, fisheries companies that are moving towards practices that are both extremely respectful of the rules and innovative in terms of sustainable fisheries management, may feel that they are not recognised, that they are not being rewarded enough. i also believe that, both in terms of the fight against illegal fishing and in relation to other subjects that have been discussed, such as discards or resource management, respect for quotas, we must also think about a policy that is much more rewarding for those who are moving forward and in the right direction, which i believe is not the case today. in conclusion, i think that this report gives us an opportunity to raise all these questions. of course, this discussion will not solve the problems. we shall continue to discuss this, i think, in the next report, but i believe that we need a high point of very general consultation, not this head-to-head between the representatives of the profession, the government and the commission, seen from the top down, but a very broad, very transversal, more horizontal than vertical consultation, which allows us to find the right solutions and here the european union, the european parliament, once again plays its full role and will assume all its responsibilities in the solutions to be found to respond to the crisis in the sector.
in writing. the european parliament deals a fresh blow to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, a veritable international scourge. the measures adopted effectively complement the existing system. i am particularly concerned about the introduction by the port state of a system of control of vessels calling at the port, involving the issuing of a certificate attesting to the legality of the catch and the prohibition of accepting pirate vessels. i also welcome the ban on the import of fish from illegal fishing and the publication of a list of rogue vessels. the added value of these new european rules also derives from the development of a community alert system triggered in the event of suspected illegal fishing. the system of sanctions has also been strengthened, including a ban on illegal vessels from receiving public subsidies and an obligation to repay them, if any. above all, i have successfully fought for the european parliament to give special attention to the outermost regions in the fight against illegal fishing, because of the exceptional fragility of their ecosystems. it is a strong signal to the unscrupulous fleets that will make it possible to put a real brake on the unfair competition which is slowly suffocating our fishermen.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the customs union, which celebrates its 40th anniversary in 2008, was one of the first steps in the process of european integration. it has made it possible to abolish all customs duties between the member states and to adopt a common external tariff. it is one of the conditions necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market and the proper application of the union's trade agreements. within the customs union, the effectiveness of import and export rules and procedures is a major element of the economic performance of the european union and the social protection of its citizens. you have recently published, commissioner, the customs statistics for 2007, which show, i quote, new and alarming trends. counterfeiting, you said, continues to pose a dangerous threat to our health, our security and our economy. there are many concerns about consumer protection and my report makes proposals for compliance with european standards, particularly in the area of health and safety. another example: the issue of cigarette smuggling, which was raised in this parliament last september and on which i was rapporteur for my political group, has clearly highlighted the scale of the problem and revealed the weaknesses of our community transit system. that is why our committee on international trade has questioned the quality of our customs system and its ability to meet the challenges of globalisation of trade in a context where the citizens who are watching us expect the union to protect them. this is what the treaty of lisbon, which is currently being ratified by the member states, proposes, and article 1 (4) provides that the protection of its citizens will be one of the objectives of the union in its relations with the rest of the world. at international level, the main uncertainty is the outcome of the doha round negotiations, led by the world trade organisation, for which reaching an agreement seems a distant prospect. we all know that if the global multilateral trade negotiations fail, we will enter into bilateral competition governed, we are all aware of this, by the law of the strongest and we will need a strong and effective customs union. within the world customs organization itself, progress towards the efficiency and global harmonisation of customs procedures has been slowing down, following security concerns in the united states since the september 2001 attacks. however, on international trade, the report points out that overly strict import and export rules and procedures can constitute a non-tariff barrier that discourages trade. i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, which list excessively restrictive customs rules and procedures as one of the main obstacles to international trade. the customs system must be used to facilitate trade and the report proposes that this issue be the subject of a global agreement separate from the doha agenda. the report also examines the many issues relating to tariff classification, value and the preferential and non-preferential treatment of goods, with the aim of drawing the attention of the commission to the requests of the industrial sectors concerned. finally, i would like to emphasize that the persistence of a lack of harmonization seems to me to be one of the obvious causes of the weakening of the european customs system. i understand, commissioner, that the reform of the community customs code and its application is your priority, that it is a sufficiently complex task not to add institutional reform. however, i would like to open a line of thought by proposing that the possibility of creating an integrated coordination of national customs administrations be studied, with a view to moving towards a community administration in charge of the customs union. the logic of ever greater harmonisation of customs rules implies that the customs function will become de facto identical throughout the union. given the long delays involved in community developments, especially those affecting the prerogatives of the member states, i believe that the time has come to bring this question to the table, which is both symbolic, because it is the culmination of forty years of ever-increasing customs integration, and pragmatic, because it is raised with the aim of managing procedures more efficiently in a world that is becoming increasingly complex, fast-moving and not waiting for us.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the midst of a customs night, as we have mr markov's report on the gsp and jean-pierre audy's report on non-tariff barriers, that is to say, the rules of procedure for import and export, the so-called administrative protectionism, that is to say, the pharisaic customs barriers. in fact, if we talk a lot about tariff reductions from gatt to the wto, we also practice subtle protectionism, with quotas, with tariff peaks - europe has more than 110 tariff peaks; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe has more than 5 000 tariff lines. in agriculture alone, we have 2 726 tariff lines. japan, it's true, has 1,890 and the u.s. has 1,779. so what do you do with a commodity in terms of tariff lines? for example, the mummy that comes from egypt for an exhibition, where do we put it? we classified it as dried fish! so the audy report swept all these issues under the rug and saw very clearly that the united states had returned to mccarthyism of customs with the hunt for security or insecurity. so, the customs pacifism of john paul ii, with the famous homily of 1978 - "open the borders of the states, the economic systems, non avere paura, do not be afraid" - all this is over, we are afraid, hence the doha cycle which is not concluded ten years after its opening, while the uruguay round cycle had only required eight years, if i dare say so. what's the problem? the problem is that customs duties are 2,000 years old and they go back to rome, to the customs duties of rome, whereas we are in the 21st century. and in the 21st century, commissioner, we need to invent a new customs technology, and this new technology has been invented by scientists. these are deductible customs duties, customs duties that are modulable according to the differentials of production costs, that are refundable, that are tradable on a customs duty stock market, and that are modifiable to help developing countries. that is what you have to put on the wto negotiating table, commissioner, the new customs technology, to get out of the customs archaism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner kovács, thank you for your replies, and i would like to add to these thanks your services with whom i have worked, as well as the officials of the inta committee, in particular my friend philippe musquar, and the rapporteurs for the political groups, mr francisco assis, to whom i also add mrs lyubcheva, whom i am pleased to meet. we were working on another case recently. you were right, mr roithová, to draw attention to the problem of 100% scanning and thank you, commissioner, for your determination to defend us. it is not the first time that the united states of america has attacked us on all these subjects, since they brought us before the wto dispute settlement body in a case against our customs system, which we won, thanks to the action of your services, commissioner, and you are right to defend us. our dear colleague mr martinez has explained his theory on reverse tariffs. he had already explained it to me when we were in hong kong in december 2005. i have not yet understood it, but i do not despair of one day being able to understand how these reverse tariffs will apply to mummies or dried fish. i would like to thank all the political groups for their support for this report. i think that today we can see that the planet, which is becoming more complex, which is moving faster, used to solve all its disorders with world wars. today we have gone from a military world war to a world economic and social war. instead of deaths, we have unemployment, and we are not sure who the enemy is. it is in this context of a world economic and social war that we need to have a strong customs union and import and export systems that protect - not from protectionism, but from protectionism - our businesses, our citizens and, more generally, our european union.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the european commission has made a good proposal. it has transformed a rather clumsy political initiative the 'union of the mediterranean' into renewed political ambition in favour of a strengthened barcelona process. this is an excellent thing and the commission is playing its role perfectly well in this context. we support his proposals, particularly in view of the fact that the institutions of the future project are to be set in the context of the lisbon treaty and its ambition for a more coherent and better integrated union external policy. in doing so, it is cutting short justified fears of ad hoc political steering at the behest of summit agreements, carte blanche or circumstance - fears largely fuelled by president sarkozy's untimely initiatives in favour, for example, of nuclear proliferation in the region. the poor performance in democracy and human rights was unanimously identified in 2005 as hampering the barcelona objectives. the european parliament therefore insists that all mechanisms for strengthening democracy and the rule of law, as well as the parliamentary dimension of the process and the participation of civil society, be duly guaranteed in the context of this new euro-mediterranean ambition. there is an amendment on the middle east conflict. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament would be very well advised to vote in favour of this. it is right not to make any new initiative in the region conditional on the resolution of the conflict, but it is also completely illusory to deny its negative impact on the concrete capacity to develop mediterranean projects useful to the citizens. the ad hoc delegation returning from palestine has documented serious violations of humanitarian and human rights law, and clear breaches of the oslo and annapolis commitments. it would be futile to suggest that the persistence of this situation does not seriously undermine the mutual trust between the partners and civil societies of the region - a trust that is vital to the success of our euro-mediterranean ambitions.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, the challenges facing europe's relations with the peoples of the southern shore of the mediterranean go far beyond those of a simple neighbourhood. perhaps the future of peace is at stake in this quintessential fracture zone. the reasons for this are obvious. first, the economic imbalance. thirteen years after the launch of the barcelona process, not only is the promised shared prosperity not there, but the gaps have widened. in fact, the obsession with free trade has overtaken the objective of development. to succeed tomorrow on what failed yesterday, a change of direction is necessary. i don't see him. the second problem is the humiliating treatment of migrants. the population of these nations is very young. she wants to live and sees no future. while deeply attached to their land, their culture, the history of their civilization and their prestigious contributions - mr berlusconi does not mind - many turn their eyes to europe and see their emigrant brothers and sisters suffering the familiar insults: from hunting to slaughter to discrimination, from detention centres to deportation. in this respect too, the gap has widened dramatically. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry. finally, there is the inertia of europe in dealing with the palestinian problem. i am told that the union and its member states are the main donors to palestine; it's true, and it's good. but any observer will confirm, as the whole of the delegation of our parliament which has just returned from the middle east has just confirmed, that without a resolute european commitment on the political front, this aid will not solve anything in the main. in other words, what is expected of europe south of the mediterranean in this respect is that it finally overcomes what the former representative of the un secretary-general, mr de soto, very rightly called self-censorship towards israel regarding the permanent violation of international law and its own commitments. israel must understand - and the union must contribute to this - that the normalisation of its relations with the whole region comes at a price, and that price is nothing less than what the arab league peace initiative, the quartet road map and the annapolis declaration have all reminded us of, namely the end of the occupation and the barbarism it entails, and the recognition of the palestinian state within the 1967 borders. the european attitude on this issue may be the decisive criterion for the success or failure of any attempt to revive the euro-mediterranean partnership. it would therefore be well for the eu-israel association council on 16 june to take this crucial fact seriously when considering israel's request for an upgrade of the status of its partnership with the union.
madam president, commissioner, the mediterranean is the area of all fractures. telluric fracture, historical fracture at salamis, at axion, at lepanto , demographic fracture and even philosophical fracture, between magical thought and logical thought, that is to say east and west, but at the same time both east and west, from egypt to moses, and then jesus, and then mohammed, from omar khayyâm to baudelaire, from the plateaus of syria to the plains of languedoc. the mediterranean is the hope of three monotheistic religions and the hope of a wheat and wine civilization, not of sauerkraut and beer or the mussel of leon. so the union for the mediterranean is not just about cleanup and civil security. this is a firehouse business! the mediterranean cannot be managed with 44 high-ranking officials from brussels, the capital of the mediterranean, and why not also an erasmus scholarship, so that plato and aristotle can come to study community law at the college of bruges. the mediterranean is dealing with the affairs of the mediterranean women and men, which means prosperity, for example, for the fishermen who are telling you this right now, which means peace both in the west, in the saharan provinces of morocco, and in the east, in palestine. commissioner, mrs benita waldner, we must have big enough dreams to keep them in mind while we pursue them, and that is why we do not make a tight union of the peoples and women of the mediterranean.
madam president, welcome to the relaunching, after 13 years, of the process of multilateral relations between the european union and the countries bordering the mediterranean. our resolve is not wrong. there was no untimely initiative, but on the contrary a happy and welcome initiative, since we are talking about new initiative, new impetus, new impulse. so this proves that the barcelona process was at the very least perfect, and that is what we are all going to be working towards. so welcome to this "barcelona process: union for the mediterranean". it is the first time that the instrument has been put before the objective, and i have no doubt that the union for the mediterranean will remain a generic name, but i do not want to be angry with anyone. the union for the mediterranean is the egg of columbus, what! the mediterranean is a lake. we 're all riverboats . the commission has already made a number of proposals, some of which are well organized, others are less organized or not yet organized. but we are called upon to work together, and we must begin - and the commission has made this perfectly clear - with concrete projects on pollution, energy production and employment for young people, which is absolutely essential for our countries on the coast. so welcome also to the parliamentary revival on less physical areas, on human rights, on gender. however, i would like to conclude by saying that there will probably be no third stimulus. it is absolutely essential that we succeed in this, because otherwise we would be demonstrating that we are enemies of our own interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is of the utmost importance. one of the keys to the future of our continent lies in our ability to prevent a deep rift from dividing the mediterranean basin into two antagonistic parts, culturally and economically. despite all the differences between the two shores of the mare nostrum, what unites us is even stronger than what separates us. that is why nicolas sarkozy's initiative is in principle a good thing, because it gives new life to a barcelona process which is taking off. on the other hand, i have a few reservations about the method. when france signed the european commitments contained in the various treaties, from maastricht to lisbon, it agreed to transfer to the community level - and i regret this - a number of its prerogatives, particularly in the field of foreign affairs. unfortunately, mr guenot may not like it, but that is the world these treaties are making us live in. that is why i think it is a form of inconsistency to launch such a project, with the help of media storms. in reality, france no longer has the power to impose it. the only way to make progress was to use all the diplomatic and human resources at france's disposal to convince its partners to reform the barcelona process, without giving the impression of undoing what had already been achieved, even if the existing process was unsatisfactory. the result of this inconsistency is visible today, since it is not at all a coincidence that this debate has been moved from yesterday, when the council could have taken part, to this morning, when only the commission is represented. there is obviously more than one sign: the commission has no intention of letting itself be relieved of this matter.
madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that the 'barcelona process: union for the mediterranean' is at the top of the european agenda today. the commission's diagnosis seems to be relevant. building on the achievements of euro-mediterranean cooperation, which has been in place since 1995, it is giving it a new impetus to overcome its shortcomings and deficiencies. i welcome the fact that the objectives adopted here are inspired by the principles of parity and equality which are at the heart of the union for the mediterranean project. the regional projects that will be carried out there will also make the euromed partnership more readable, and above all closer to the citizens. the people's ownership will be the key to a strong partnership and to strengthening regional cooperation on the southern shore. the official role of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly will therefore be decisive in pursuing this objective. the house will finally be officially recognised as the parliamentary backbone of the euro-mediterranean partnership. i will finally insist on the governance of the project. strengthening political relations, sharing responsibilities, promoting equality and increasing the number of meetings between euro-mediterranean partners must remain our objective. let us not dilute the political content of this project under the weight of an institutional mechanism which would certainly lead to inertia, but let us give it the means of real effectiveness through a north-south co-presidency, a guarantee of equality and shared responsibility, and a secretariat which must be the real governing body of the union for the mediterranean and the monitoring body for the implementation of concrete projects. the union for the mediterranean is a major step forward and, as you have said, madam commissioner, i hope it will open a new era with our partners because we share a common destiny.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of what was then the mediterranean union has raised controversy and concerns both in europe and among our mediterranean partners. this initiative could not, of course, be a purely franco-french or euro-european initiative, nor the expression of a security vision of euro-mediterranean relations. i therefore welcome the commissioner's remarks this morning, the concrete proposals that have been put forward and which address some of our concerns. this common project must be one of concerted dialogue, based on parity and joint management. but the euro-mediterranean relationship is an asymmetrical, passionate and irrational one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of whether or not to set up a free trade area in 2010 will have to be considered. irrational, because it is based on relationships linked to a history that is often painful, complicated, and today amplified by what some conservatives want, namely the clash of civilizations, a confrontation between the western bloc and the eastern bloc. so if we were to make decisions, the first decisions would be to look at this euro-mediterranean relationship without passion and with rationality. rationality, by strengthening the role of parliaments, and in particular the role of apem; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. we also need to be dispassionate because if we are not able to be dispassionate, we will not create that zone of peace and we will not avoid that clash of civilizations that some people want.
mr president, commissioner, what i wanted to say to you is that to waltz, it takes two. so what i'm interested in is whether, on the other side of the mediterranean, there is really this interest. because when you look at the belly dance that is being done today by the french government to actually bring the heads of state around the mediterranean, to bring them to paris on july 13th, you wonder if there is really a reciprocal adherence on the other side. i want to tell you that your project, revisited, is quite interesting. the european union was built after the war on coal and steel. if we do propose to our partners to build a project for the 21st century, based on climate change, on renewable energy, on restoring a totally degraded environment around the mediterranean, then yes, we can join this project. but what consistency, commissioner? what can we say to mr sarkozy's solo, who is today urging algeria to sign an agreement to install a nuclear power station before the presidency? i think that is where the contradiction between the council and the commission is perhaps visible.
mr president, no one disputes the need to set up a procedure based on the principles of risk analysis and critical control points. everyone is pleased that the european union, at community level, is proposing inventive food legislation to ensure optimum food security for our citizens. however, we must reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, especially for small and micro-enterprises, and aim for efficiency without restricting food targets. but should we be allowed to drift into hygienic and regulatory phobias? no, you certainly don't. as a representative of the comté of bourgogne-franche in parliament, i am not unaware of the methods of production of all the cheeses in my region by small and micro-enterprises. the bacteria are still needed to make the cheese. the introduction of pasteurized milk in some of them places these products within the highest standards of food safety. the burden of regulatory procedures would weaken micro and small enterprises. that is why i call for amendment no 12 to be voted on, which contributes to this flexibility and flexibility. in the time of respect for cultural diversity, of dialogue, it seems to me indispensable ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the fishing industry is currently facing a serious crisis, not only because of the increase in the price of diesel, for which we must propose a durable, global outlook and not just temporary measures, but also because of the poor management of fisheries resources, the overcapacity of the european fishing fleets and the increasing arrival on the european market of products from illegal fishing. this highly lucrative illegal fishing accelerates the degradation of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems and destabilises the entire sector, which is subject to unfair competition. the european commission's proposal and this report are therefore an essential element in implementing sustainable, responsible fishing that enables european fishermen to make a living from their trade. the report was voted unanimously in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we must send a strong signal to the council and to the member states most concerned that they must now assume their full responsibility and take the necessary, rapid and effective measures, and i am counting on your determination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect the reality of what is happening in georgia, i would like to add a sentence after 'south ossetia and abkhazia'. i'm reading it to you in bad english, and i apologize. deplores, in this regard, the decision taken by the russian ministry of defence on 31 may 2008 to send its forces to abkhazia to restore the rail and road infrastructure in the breakaway region in accordance with the presidential decree.
mr president, pursuant to rule 150 (5), i wish to take up amendment no 2 by roll call on behalf of the green group.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint report by my finnish colleagues kyösti virrankoski and ville itälä on the third draft amending budget for 2008 of the european union. this mainly involves budgeting the revenue from the microsoft case (fine and bank interest totalling eur 849.200.000), savings from the lower than expected increase in civil servants' salaries and pensions in 2007, the strengthening of the veterinary emergency fund due to the bluetongue crisis (to eur 130 million in commitment appropriations and eur 63.950.000 in payment appropriations), the creation of the necessary budget structure for four joint technology initiatives: the innovative medicines initiative (imi), clean sky, artemis (embedded information systems) and eniac (european nanoelectronics research technology platform), for eur 257.5 million in commitment appropriations and eur 194.6 million in payment appropriations from the seventh framework programme; the eu solidarity fund has provided €98 million for forest fires in greece and floods in slovenia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my finnish colleague kyösti virrankoski on the fourth draft amending budget for 2008 of the european union. in fact, the only thing that is at issue is the surplus for the 2007 financial year, namely eur 1 528 832 290, to be entered in the 2008 budget. for 2007, the difference between revenue realised (eur 117.4 billion) and expenditure realised (eur 112.9 billion) shows a surplus of eur 4.5 billion, of which payment appropriations carried over to 2008 must be deducted; the total amount of the loan was eur 3.1 billion. to this surplus of 1.4 billion, we must add the appropriations carried over from 2006 to 2007 which were cancelled by 0.2 billion and subtract the negative balance of monetary exchanges of 0.1 billion to have a surplus of 1.5 billion euros in 2007. this surplus is mainly due to under-spending of just under €1.6 billion. i regret that the allocation of this surplus, rather than being automatically returned to the member states, has not been the subject of political discussion to be allocated, for example, to the financing of investment such as the trans-european transport networks. i still remember the difficulties we had in finding some €3.5 billion to finance the excellent galileo project.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my french colleague marie-hélène aubert, which proposes to amend, following the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. it is becoming urgent to tackle this issue as illegal fishing is a serious problem all over the world. i fully support this initiative, which, as the rapporteur has pointed out, was proposed by the european parliament in february 2007. i support the clarification that, except, of course, in cases of distress or force majeure, fishing vessels from third countries on the community iuu vessel list should be prohibited from accessing ports of the member states, from benefiting from port services and from carrying out landing, transhipment or processing operations on board in those ports. i am in favour of a catch certificate allowing traceability of the fisheries, provided that it is not too complex.
in writing. the fishermen of france, spain and italy are expressing their legitimate revolt, their right to live from their work, their indignation. the peasants, by the way, say no different. we have known for a year that the price of fuel is economically suffocating our fishermen. this shock is added to the bureaucratic strangulation of our fishermen by quotas, penalties, surveillance, inspections, which transform the freedom of the high seas into a liquid soviet union. in the face of the tragedy of a profession, what is being offered to these men, to these regions, to these villages, to these local economies? i didn't say anything. otherwise, it's a vague, temporary help, like palliative care. worse still, on the day when mediterranean fishermen are in brussels to protest for their right to live, we are discussing here further criminal sanctions against illegal fishing. even the path of vat and excise duty relief is denied to fishermen. the solution is a european fund to compensate fishermen for their debts, so that they do not have to bear the burden of the inequality of public charges caused by import policy and the domination of the distribution giants.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my portuguese colleague, mr duarte freitas, which proposes amendments, following the consultation procedure, to the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems of the high seas against the adverse effects of the use of bottom fishing gears. the draft regulation implements the 2006 united nations recommendations and is aimed at community vessels operating on the high seas in areas not regulated by a regional fisheries organisation, which therefore requires regulation by the flag state. between doing nothing and banning everything, i support the third way advocated by the european union, based on strict regulation of bottom fishing activities by defining the conservation and management measures adopted by the regional fisheries organisations (rfos) and also determining the discipline that flag states must impose on their vessels when they operate in high seas areas not regulated by a rfmo.
in writing. the european parliament has voted to introduce strict principles governing the activities of community vessels using bottom trawls on the high seas in areas not regulated by regional fisheries organisations. in line with the recommendations of the united nations general assembly, which has been at the forefront of this issue, the parliamentarians are putting an end to the legal vacuum that has made possible the irreversible destruction of our marine ecosystems. i am glad that the members of the european parliament have recognised the importance of deep-sea ecosystems as a major source of marine biodiversity, and that shifting fishing effort to these habitats could lead to the destruction of our heritage. the ecological awareness of the european parliamentarians is not intended to hinder the already difficult work of our fishermen, nor to increase bureaucratic pressure. from now on, fishing activities in these specific areas will be subject to a licence, subject to a prior assessment by the member state, ensuring that the fishing will not have any noticeable adverse effects. the precautionary principle is also applied here. the preservation of marine biodiversity will only be guaranteed if it is vertically integrated into other community policies, in particular the future maritime policy of the european union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr audy's report calls for the harmonisation of import and export procedures to ensure the proper application of the european union's trade policy, and above all for consistent application at all eu entry points in order to make life easier for businesses. this might seem logical, since we have been in a customs union for over 40 years. but mr audy wants this harmonization of procedures to be complete and entrusted to a single european customs service. it is true that customs are responsible for checking the movement of goods and their compliance with standards (product safety, consumer protection, health, environment, etc.). they also have a fiscal function: the application of the appropriate customs duties, of course, but also that of vat, which remains, if you like, a national tax. finally, and perhaps above all, they contribute to security and are involved in the fight against all kinds of trafficking, the most important of which is drug trafficking, in close cooperation with the police. it is not surprising that the rapporteur favours the first function, in the name of the virtues of international trade, and underestimates the other two. that is why we are voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague, reimer böge, which proposes to approve as is the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to slovenia and greece, respectively, affected by floods and forest fires in 2007, for a total amount of approximately eur 98 million, which is to be the subject of an amending budget adopted in parallel. in order to avoid any delay in the provision of financial assistance in the event of disaster, i support the recommendation in the report to ask the commission to propose amending budgets with the sole purpose of mobilising this fund, the use of which must not exceed eur 1 billion annually under the current interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague helmuth markov, which was voted unanimously in the committee on international trade and which proposes to amend, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2011 and amending various regulations. this proposal for a regulation follows the 2004 guidelines on the role of the gsp for the decade 2006 to 2015 which introduced several new objectives such as, for example, targeting preferences on countries that need them most, extending gsp coverage to products of interest to developing countries, increasing the transparency and stability of the graduation mechanism and introducing a new special incentive scheme to promote sustainable development and good governance. i fully support the report in that it calls for the european parliament to be more involved in this gsp policy which is important for the countries that need it and which costs us 3.5 billion in lost customs duties every year.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr markov's report on the system of preferential customs duties for developing countries is an act of faith in the beneficial consequences of free trade in the world. and especially for the poorest countries. but when i turn on the television and watch the news, it seems to me that these are the countries where the hunger riots are taking place. it seems to me that the choice of large export crops over local crops for food independence is one of the causes of these riots. it seems to me that 37 years of preferential systems have not changed much in the economic and social situation of these countries and their populations. it seems to me that if a system takes so long to achieve the benefits promised by its ideological supporters, if it leaves so many people stranded on the side of the road in all countries, if it increases inequality and poverty, then there is no time to change it on the margins. you just have to give it up.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my distinguished polish colleague, mr jacek saryuz-wolski, on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the european security and defence policy (esdp), which have helped to strengthen european identity and the role of the european union in the world. i share the view that the cfsp must gain more democratic legitimacy by allowing parliament to exercise real control over this policy, also speaking with one voice and demanding various priorities: the causes of the current insecurity in europe (terrorism, organised crime), energy security, the fight against climate change and sustainable development, improving stability in neighbouring regions, crisis management and conflict prevention/resolution, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, migration management, the promotion of human rights and civil liberties worldwide. the first geographical priority must be stability in the western balkans and the strengthening of the dialogue with serbia and kosovo. i support the idea that the european parliament should make specific proposals for the financing and budgetary control of the future european external action service (eeas).
in writing. the two reports, one on common foreign policy and the other on security and defence policy, which are to be voted on today, have one thing in common: the dispossession of the member states of their foreign and defence policies to the benefit of officials in brussels. diplomacy will be in the hands of a high representative, a real foreign minister. and because it is common, defence will become unique, under the high patronage, this time, of the united states, via nato and the un, as clearly stated in the constitution bis of europe, the treaty of lisbon. our military resources are reduced to their simplest expression, since the bulk of the budgets are now spent by france and the united kingdom and are subject to the stability pact. the french and british permanent seats on the un security council will be combined into one, with a european plenipotentiary... in short, no member state will have the political and military means to ensure its independence and freedom on its own. but it is true that they have already largely abdicated them in favour of the eurocrats. we are resolutely opposed to this disastrous development.
in writing. i voted for the joint resolution tabled by five political groups on the union for the mediterranean. the mediterranean region and the middle east are of strategic importance to the union and a mediterranean policy based on solidarity, dialogue, cooperation and exchanges is necessary to address common challenges and achieve the objective of creating an area of peace, stability and shared prosperity. i welcome the initiative of the president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy, to whom this union for the mediterranean is very dear, and i wish him every success at the inaugural summit scheduled for paris on 13 july. i support the political proposal to give this future union a parliamentary dimension by building on the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. i welcome the examples of initiatives proposed such as the motorways of the sea, the interconnection of the arab maghreb motorway (ama), the decontamination of the mediterranean, civil protection and the mediterranean solar plan, the production of high-powered solar thermal electricity in the north african desert, the desalination of seawater to facilitate access to drinking water, etc.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the joint resolution on the 'barcelona process: union for the mediterranean'. this resolution rightly recalls the strategic interest of the mediterranean region and the middle east for the european union. our policy towards these countries must be based on the principles of solidarity, dialogue and cooperation. the barcelona process now needs to be relaunched to maximise its effectiveness. the commission's initiative is therefore a step in the right direction and has the merit of focusing on specific regional projects whose implementation will make it possible to respond effectively to the needs of the citizens of this region. the commission proposal also provides for the establishment of a co-chairmanship of the barcelona process, a joint standing committee and a secretariat, which will improve cooperation and dialogue between the various partners. it also recalled that the main objectives of this policy must remain the promotion of the rule of law, democracy, respect for rights and political pluralism.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is constantly repudiating the hyper-president sarkozy: rejection of his proposals on fuel taxation, warnings against budgetary deviations and now the transformation of the mediterranean union project into a revival of the barcelona process, which has been a failure for more than 10 years. this is the end of the cooperation project between the countries bordering the mare nostrum, led by france. the whole union is now involved, and the commission in brussels will be in charge. this is the decision of the real boss: mrs merkel's germany. this case is a perfect illustration of two realities: the unrest and the effects of mr sarkozy's announcement only mask his impotence; france's interests are in the hands of brussels officials and subject to those of the european union. let us pray that the irish, a people who love freedom and have paid a high price for it throughout history, will be the one to deliver us from this increasingly illegitimate and increasingly tyrannical eurocratic construction.
in writing. the very title of the resolution underlines the failure of mr sarkozy. not content with being the president of the french republic, he wanted to become the architect, and then the president, of a euro-mediterranean union, open only to the countries bordering the mediterranean. before he even begins his european presidency, his house of cards collapses. germany has imposed its views: all the states of the european union will participate in this project, conceived as a simple development of the barcelona process, led by the brussels eurocracy. this fiasco illustrates the degradation of our country in the european institutions. the europe of brussels, far from strengthening france, as the ump and the ps claim, is weakening it in all areas: economically, with the destruction of our peasantry, the ruin and the relocation of our industries; militarily, with the dismantling of our army, which is destined to dissolve into a eurocorps; demographically, with immigration calling into question our national identity. only a new europe, the europe of the homelands, based on the sovereignty of the states and on the founding values of our european and christian civilization, will enable france to become a leading power again and to conduct a major cooperation policy in the mediterranean aimed, among other things, at the return of immigrant populations to their countries.
in writing. in view of the difficulty of replacing the generations of european farmers, the european parliament wanted to consider ways of encouraging young farmers to set up their businesses, which should guide the cap's health check. as co-rapporteur of the pse group, i made the following proposals:- this is a priority to meet the food, energy, environmental and territorial challenges, - new farmers must benefit from support measures, especially those who do not inherit the holding and those who move to areas with permanent natural handicaps: higher set-up aid, reduced rates for agricultural loans and accompanying measures after set-up - these support measures must be mandatory under the 2nd pillar of the cap and the issue of access to land must be studied - living conditions in rural areas must be improved: equal access to public services, public services, social living spaces ... - we must develop vocational training (during access to employment and vocational training) and promote farmers' knowledge by respecting the standards of the european level and by promoting the quality of life of farmers.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights the fundamental challenge for the european union of renewing generations of farmers. young farmers are best placed to meet the new agricultural challenges. with the experience of their elders, they have the dynamism and enthusiasm to make the necessary environmental, technological and economic changes that will enable european agriculture of tomorrow to maintain its central place in the world. the aim is to reconcile an ever-increasing level of agricultural production with a constant concern for the quality and safety of products, all in the context of a comprehensive approach to the conservation of natural resources and environments. but these requirements require ever greater financial and personal investment from young farmers. the acquisition by the latter of the appropriate material and intellectual tools must therefore, as this report calls for, be given increased support by the union, particularly in terms of access to technological innovations. the cap cannot afford to neglect those who will ensure the community's food sovereignty in a sustainable way that respects people and the environment.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur rightly points out, 'for a market to exist, there must be supply and demand'. this does not seem to be the case for a cross-border market in retail financial services. the report is based on the assumption that allowing supply will necessarily encourage demand. however much we may wish to have cheaper loans or more profitable investments, it is not tomorrow that an italian will go to a danish or cypriot bank to borrow money to buy his house or his car. and everyone can see why: problems of language, of correct apprehension of risks, uncertainties about the tax system, etc. the rapporteur is not mistaken when he talks about the importance of trust, proximity and personal relationships for consumers. this desire to create such a market artificially is hard to conceal one of the main aims of the manoeuvre: to force the states to harmonize tax and regulatory measures to deal with any eventuality or to impose a supranational legal order. with the added bonus of the adoption of the euro by the countries that have refused it, in order to be able to participate fully in this hypothetical market. we cannot ratify these proposals.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
, on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, would it not be possible to ask two questions? the first is that put forward by mr swoboda, who asks for more time for the debate on the european council and the question of the referendum. the second is whether the debate on oil prices and the debate on fisheries should be separated or whether they should be made one. those are two separate issues. i suggest that you put the question of speaking time on the european council debate first and only then the question on fisheries.
mr president, i read on our agenda that we have to look at a codified version of the statistical tests on rollover protection devices for agricultural and forestry tractors. i have the impression that since the dublin vote, history has dictated other urgencies. we cannot outsource a subject like the lisbon treaty to the european council alone. we, the members of the european parliament, can legitimately get involved, especially since we know the ingredients of the solutions. first, the essential questions will have to cover a few essential institutional elements and not hundreds of pages. it will require a european referendum with an opt-out for countries that do not want to follow and, finally, mr president, as you said, a very tight timetable 2009 , otherwise the election campaign will become impossible. and let no one tell me that such a scenario is impossible; it is no more improbable than the one the chancelleries are currently working on. as for me, i'm ready for it.
mr president, i should like to begin by welcoming the commission's initiative to provide emergency aid to fishermen. if it is certainly not sufficient to solve the problems of the sector, it seems to me to be at least necessary at the present time. the present situation is indeed critical: in one year the price of diesel has gone up from 35 to 73 cents a litre. the bill for the price of diesel is therefore heavy and in my constituency, in the somme bay in particular, fishermen are particularly concerned and bitter. beyond the price of diesel, the main concern of fishermen is to sell their fish at a fair price, tackling the unjustified margins taken by middlemen. but this is more than a crisis, it is a structural issue for the fisheries sector which we must address at european level. as we have seen, the protest movement has taken on a european dimension. this is logical when we consider that fisheries policy is one of the oldest european policies. we must help the fisheries sector to modernise so that it can free itself from the constraints of the cost of diesel, while taking into account our obligations in terms of environmental protection and fisheries management. in this context, i hope that the debate scheduled for wednesday in the plenary will lead to a useful resolution for a european fishery which is now in danger.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of members to the expulsion of sami essid from italy to tunisia on 3 june, in complete violation of italy's commitments under the european convention on human rights, and in particular article 3 thereof. why would you do that? because mr essid is accused of terrorism and the european court of human rights has established beyond doubt that anyone accused of terrorism is inevitably tortured in tunisia. the european court therefore asked italy to suspend the expulsion. italy went overboard on 3 june, in complete violation of its commitments. i would also ask that italy be reminded of its obligations under the european convention on human rights and as a member of the european union and that it be ensured that mr essid, who has now been deported to tunisia, will not be subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment there. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur, caroline jackson, on the outstanding work she has done, which reflects the quality of her expertise on this sensitive issue of waste management. i also congratulate her on the quality of her listening, which was constant throughout the negotiations and which made it possible to achieve this difficult compromise with the council and the commission. we have a new directive which aims to clarify a number of points. the waste hierarchy and the ambitious recycling targets set for member states 50% for household waste by 2020 are welcome; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european waste management system, the establishment of a european waste management system, and the establishment of a european waste management system. it is also important that incinerators be subject to energy efficiency criteria as provided for in the text, provided, of course, that incineration is really the solution used insofar as there is no other way. the text which also tightly regulates the control of hazardous waste and strengthens its traceability, all of this seems to me to be very positive. of course, this is a compromise and we would have liked to go much further on certain points, such as the addition of environmental criteria in the definition of recovery, the strengthening of the conditions for the exit from the waste status or the question of co-products, the definition of which is problematic. nevertheless, we must support this compromise, because we know very well that it has been difficult to obtain and that by trying to reach a compromise we run the risk of failing and falling far behind. it is important to know that our european waste policy has so far been a failure, so it is much better to agree on a solution that seems reasonable and the european commission must be sufficiently vigilant to ensure that this directive is properly applied. in a few years, we'll see if we can go any further.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am not satisfied with this compromise text, either in form or in substance. on the formal side, i think that working for two years on a text so that the final decisions - which are not just adjustments - are drawn up in secret, far below what was adopted in the committee on the environment and arrive on the tables of members only a few hours before the vote, does not allow us to work in good conditions. in substance, this compromise text is a renunciation text which abandons a clear definition of recovery, abandons the desire to stabilise the volume of waste, abandons ambitious recycling targets and unfortunately shows the inability of the commission and the council to translate into action the great ambitious declarations made on the european and international scene. no, i am not satisfied, and i am even worried about our political inability to really act on our environment and on our health and its improvement, and that is also why i voted no.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mrs jackson, and our rapporteur, dr murko, on the work of our alde group. the question of hazardous waste seems to me to be an essential issue in the problems of traceability, non-dilution and uniform storage of information on waste movements over a long period, i.e. five years for all those involved in the sector, whereas all these issues are treated rather lightly. this is more than regrettable from the point of view of health and the environment. as far as the co-products are concerned, i can only express my disappointment. i'm not against the concept of co-production; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. finally, other issues, such as the end-of-life status of waste or recovery, seem to me to have been sacrificed in the name of an agreement at second reading.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are presenting today at second reading is the result of the work of a team which has been able to reach an agreement with the slovenian presidency and the european commission. it has been a real pleasure for me to work with my fellow rapporteurs from the political groups to find a compromise. it is a good thing to have competent and experienced colleagues who are listening and present at negotiating meetings. i would like to express my sincere thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to the secretariat of the committee on the environment, the advisers of the political groups and my assistant, sylvain maréchal. i am talking about teamwork because we have had excellent cooperation with the representatives of the slovenian presidency, who have taken parliament's recommendations into account, and with the representatives of the european commission, who have provided feedback to help us better understand this draft directive. i believe that everyone will be able to see the fruit of their collaboration in the compromise amendments which will be put to the vote tomorrow. so thank you all for making my work as rapporteur on this technical matter so much easier. i'm coming to the bottom. the water framework directive sets out a strategy to combat chemical pollution of water. the purpose of this proposal for a daughter directive is to ensure a high level of protection against the risks posed by certain substances in the aquatic environment by establishing environmental quality standards. let me highlight the main advances in this compromise text. we have included two major principles: the polluter pays principle and the principle of first fixing the source. the most significant elements are concrete elements. these transitional overrun areas - now known as mixing areas - are no longer a means of detecting a problem but a tool for highlighting it and it is therefore up to the member states to describe the corrective actions. the aim of the directive was to harmonise standards at community level. it was therefore obvious that the commission should draw up guidelines to help harmonize inventories, emissions and discharges and mixing areas. we got it. we have also succeeded in ensuring that the situation of bodies of water which cross borders between member states, but also from third countries, is better taken into account. as regards the additional substances, parliament wanted to add a substantial number of them. on the basis of a preliminary screening, the commission selected 13 substances considered to be of concern. the compromise clearly states that the commission will have 24 months to decide on the final classification and propose relevant limit values on the basis of scientific data. this is a significant progress, since these substances include pcbs, free cyanides, edta, dioxins and biphenols. on the sensitive issue of sediments and biota, in the absence of scientific consensus, the compromise states that member states will have to monitor these to provide an analysis of the long-term trend of substances accumulating there. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the member states. in view of these developments, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this compromise package.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank mrs laperrouze and all the shadow rapporteurs and the slovenian presidency for the work that has been done. this directive is the last daughter directive to the water framework directive and it was very important that we reached a compromise which is a real step forward in our ambition to combat pollution, and in particular chemical pollution of water. the present situation shows clearly how, for example, the presence of pcbs is a serious handicap for the water resources of our community. mrs laperrouze has said all the points on which we have made progress. of course, as always in every compromise, we would have liked to have got more, but i think the basis is good. we will simply be vigilant because a great deal will now depend on the commission and we hope that in its work with the scientific experts it will be very ambitious in the classification of the future priority and priority dangerous substances, the famous thirteen substances which must be classified shortly. we will also be vigilant to ensure that the scientific uncertainty which now exists in relation to sediments and biota does not remain a kind of artistic blur which in the end relieves the european union of efforts to understand and improve the quality of these biota and sediments. finally, mixing areas and knowledge of pollutants and sources of pollution and emission controls need to be improved. we will ensure that parliament is vigilant and i thank you, commissioner, for indicating that, in addition to what was provided for in the compromise we are about to vote on, the commission would like to take stock of the implementation of the water framework directive and, if necessary, if delays were accumulating in the member states or if uncertainties were to be removed, to present us with additional measures to ensure that good ecological status of water is achieved in 2015, in accordance with what we voted for in 2000.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contribution to this debate. what are the aims of this directive? the aim, of course, is to improve the quality of surface water. we do not want to find lead, cadmium, nickel, mercury, solvents, these highly toxic and carcinogenic substances, including pcbs, in water. my colleague, mrs lienemann, was referring to a report from a fortnight ago which showed that pcbs were bio-accumulated in fish and that man then ate these fish. we cannot accept that any longer and i believe that the european citizens are perhaps also expecting europe to give this strong signal for the protection of our environment, for the protection of our health. i believe that it is by respecting this framework law on water, with its daughter directives, that we can also convey this message from europe. some colleagues have said that there may not have been enough substance, that parliament had moved backwards from the first reading. at first reading we had proposed a total of 33 + 28 substances, i.e. 61 substances analysed. the second reading gives us 33 + 13, or 46, but it must be remembered that these are dangerous substances of particular concern, which should no longer be present in river waters today. the other interest of this directive is that it makes it possible to check that european legislation is being properly respected - i am thinking of the application of the reach regulation, i am thinking of the ippc. we have an instrument here to verify that. commissioner, you have heard my colleagues, if the council and parliament approve this text, the ball is in your court. you have a lot of work to do, you have a lot of analysis to do, you have these inventories to list. have a good one! in any case, we will be there to follow up on this legislation.
mr president, it is regrettable that once again, on the eve of the holidays, we find ourselves discussing this problem with the impression that, from one year to the next, nothing is progressing. at a time when most of our fellow citizens are doubting the effectiveness of europe, it is urgent to show that when citizens are hit in their property or in their lives, in the event of natural disasters, whether fires, floods or perhaps even epidemics, europe can respond and that, in short, in times of distress, citizens need europe and that it is there to respond. where are we today? once again, we say to ourselves that solidarity must be involved, of course, and that we can benefit from a binding framework. it is essential to convince the member states that they have a genuine and operational civil protection centre with reserve equipment, emergency units and additional european resources. of course, humanitarian aid needs to be strengthened by closing the gaps in the provision of humanitarian aid and by strengthening global capacities. we need to create a training network. as the commissioner has said, it is essential to train experts in emergency aid in the event of disasters, drawing on the experience gained by the member states in civil protection training. but above all, we must prevent and to prevent, we need real policies on land, land, forest - prevent and then only prepare for disasters by repairing, and for that, benefit from early warning systems because this is absolutely essential. what is the position on the barnier report proposal? i would like to see concrete results from this report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when europe is experiencing difficulties, doubts are rising and enthusiasm is waning, we are celebrating an undeniable success, the 40th anniversary of the customs union. from 1968 to 2008, customs was an example of responsiveness and adaptation. remember the closure of border posts between member states in 1993. customs has redeployed its forces in modern times. their role is complex, as they have to respond to global challenges. while ensuring the security of the european union and its citizens, while securing the supply chain, customs must maintain a fair balance between controls and the facilitation of legitimate trade with the obvious aim of improving european competitiveness. to succeed in this task, customs has been able to renew itself in depth thanks to a new customs code, both lightened and enriched by new technologies which will ensure an administrative environment without paper, and finally thanks to cooperation. this cooperation, which is the key to the customs union, is carried out with international authorities such as the wto and the wto, as well as with the new administrations and the industrialists. the results of this cooperation have been particularly notable in the seizure of counterfeits. unfortunately, international cooperation has its limits and at the moment we can only deplore the unilateral decision of the us congress to have containers scanned 100% in eu ports. customs needs our support for realistic talks. the initiatives announced in the strategy for the future of the customs union must make us all aware of and ready to support any initiative to make customs even more efficient, particularly in the fight against counterfeiting and organised crime. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, my first words are to commend you and your administration for the work you have done on this matter which is a credit to the european union. i also thank my colleagues and my group for supporting an amendment i tabled on the attention to be paid to small and mediumsized enterprises, which list difficulties in applying import and export procedures among the main non-tariff barriers to trade. but i think we need to go further than the cooperation proposed in the resolution. at a time when the lisbon treaty proposes that the protection of citizens should be one of the union's objectives and when the wto is in serious difficulty, we must go further, because, i quote you, commissioner, you say: 'the customs statistics are alarming. counterfeiting continues to threaten our health and safety, our economy". the time has come to go further and to study the unification of customs administrations far beyond the present cooperation, the limits of which are now apparent.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr harangozó on the excellent work he has done and the reflections he has put forward on this complex and sensitive subject. i wanted to be actively involved in the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on this report, because the most vulnerable people are often concentrated in the least developed rural areas and areas with permanent natural handicaps and, therefore, agriculture and rural development policy have a great role to play. i believe that cohesion policy must aim at maintaining economically viable activities, whether agricultural or non-agricultural, in rural areas, in order to maintain populations that are often tempted to leave the countryside, but also to welcome new populations. it is important to promote family farming, which creates jobs, and equal access to public services and the availability of services to the public in order to meet the needs of families, communities and disadvantaged groups. in short, the rural environment must be made attractive and livable. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to ensure synergy between the different policies implemented in these territories and for these fragile populations and, therefore, to exploit more fully the complementarities of the various financial instruments available.
mr president, this request - and some of you will remember it in this house, mr president, mr council representative - is due to the fact that we had to renegotiate with the republic of mauritania, at the end of last year, the practical conditions for implementing this joint agreement. the european union and the republic of mauritania have agreed to a new agreement, which is now satisfactory to both parties, the european union and the republic of mauritania. however, the question now is whether we will be able to pay the emoluments due to the republic of mauritania from 1 august. we ask the commission, in agreement with all the political groups, to vote on this report, not this time at this part-session, but at the july part-session, simply to enable our rapporteur-designate, mrs fraga, to lay down with us, on wednesday afternoon, the precise conditions of this report which can be voted on as early as thursday morning, and therefore, under these conditions, it will be possible to put it on the agenda of our next plenary session in july. i think this must satisfy both the three partners and, of course, the republic of mauritania.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we are discussing today one aspect of the establishment of a european immigration policy and we can already make a statement: we are building a europe that is closed in on itself, whereas, in order to try to combat illegal immigration, we should put in place tools that allow the legal arrival of migrants. my group does not accept the compromise that has been worked out between the presidency and the rapporteur, not because we are opposed to any european return policy, but because we think that the result is very inadequate in terms of the protection of fundamental rights. we have always said that we are in favour of a return directive because we have seen too much horror when we have visited the detention camps. but we do not want a directive at any cost. i have heard that this directive is a way of bringing people out of hiding. this is a serious error of assessment because this directive merely sets out rules on the organisation of returns and does not in any way allow for the granting of residence rights. the rapporteur considers this compromise to be balanced, since it confers a number of rights. however, the rights conferred by the text, such as access to education for minors or access to legal aid, are not really mandatory. the directive will not improve detention in the european union. for example, an increase in the length of detention to 18 months appears to be an improvement in nine out of 27 countries. however, three of the nine member states will not be affected - the united kingdom, ireland and denmark - as they are not party to the directive. there will be very little improvement in countries like malta, where the majority of people in detention are asylum seekers, who are excluded from the directive. in greece, the main persons detained are those who are intercepted while illegally crossing an external border. and those people are also excluded from the scope. the socialist group has therefore tabled a limited number of amendments to establish the human aspect of this text. this is the first co-decision of the european parliament in the field of combating illegal immigration and that is why we have a duty as members of parliament to defend clear legislation which is not subject to different interpretations by the member states or arbitration by the court of justice. and that is why i call on the european parliament to use all the legislative powers it has to enable legislation to be passed that improves the lot of those detained. it is our duty as parliamentarians! this does not exempt us from reflecting on a larger and more philosophical question: does the earth belong to all humans? is there really a share of these humans that should be assigned to residence in poverty? don't you think that's the real question?
mr president, i have a question that is really bothering me. why has the rapporteur, mr weber, decided to deny the powers of the european parliament by trying to get us to adopt a common position of the council at first reading - which is also totally unacceptable on the substance - even though it is difficult to convince the citizens of the value of the european parliament's increased powers? mr weber, i shall need you to explain this choice to me. i really hope that tomorrow our colleagues will live up to the expectations of the european citizens and demonstrate that they are the guarantors of the protection of human rights and the values of the european union. why would you do that? i think we cannot accept that unaccompanied minors can be locked up and deported to countries where they have no family, no connection, no legal representation. it is absolutely a violation of respect, in all circumstances, for the best interests of the child. i also believe that we cannot accept that migrants endure the traumatic and destructive conditions of detention for 18 months without having committed any crime. this is an unfair deprivation of liberty, as defined by the case law of the european court of justice. we cannot accept that migrants are sent back under readmission agreements to countries to which they have no ties and for which, mr weber and mr deprez, we have no means of guaranteeing their physical and mental integrity. we have no way of guaranteeing the principle of non-refoulement, even if it is written in large letters in your text. i therefore call on all members to reject tomorrow what is ultimately just an extension of the repressive and short-sighted policies of the member states. europe needs a different ambition for international immigration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many organizations and political parties are waging an ideological and irrational campaign against this text, which they are exploiting and distorting for political purposes. with this directive, we are offering people in vulnerable situations guarantees that their return will be carried out with the utmost respect for their rights and dignity. it is not about the right to asylum, dear giusto catania, i have the impression that you have not yet understood it. we will not allow our citizens to believe that their representatives are behind a text that is wrongly called the 'shame directive'. we have nothing to be ashamed of in a text which provides new guarantees. the shame is on those who are blind and do not see, or do not want to see, the progress that he is allowing. do we want to enshrine the principle of voluntary return as a principle? do we want to let the member states maintain an unlimited duration? do we want decisions based on the law? do we want the judicial authority to review the conditions of detention? do we want free legal aid, local ngos? do we want to enshrine the principles of family unity, the best interests of the child, medical care? of course, any text can be improved, but this directive is a step forward from what exists today, where each member state does what it wants - sometimes in an unacceptable way, is it not, dear martine roure or dear jeanine plasschaert? i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for this compromise because you will not give in to the political manipulations of some people on this text and you will bear in mind the concrete improvements it brings.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations to reach an agreement at first reading have brought down many of the gains made by parliamentary work. as it stands, this compromise text is unacceptable. it is unacceptable to treat minors as adults, to deny them access to education, to allow them to be sent back to a country far from their own ties. it is unacceptable to have common standards and procedures aligned with the lowest standards in europe and to bring this directive down. it is unacceptable to leave so many doors open to serious risks of human rights violations, to an undignified period of detention, and to leave so many people without legal cover for such situations! how can the enlightened europe accept such a drift? how can the dream of the creators of victor hugo's united states of europe turn into a nightmare for so many hopefuls?
madam president, evo morales has written to us about the directive on immigration that france calls "the undocumented". a latin head of state writing to europe is not really a stranger, it's a cousin writing. we are states with rules that must be respected, otherwise there is disorder and everyone is a victim in the end. but when peru migrates to chile, nicaragua to costa rica, or mozambique to south africa, immigration is global with a global cause. in fact, in a globalised economic market, immigration is the supreme stage of the logic of capitalism, where those who have nothing to sell can only sell themselves. so if we need to have a euro-continental legal tinkering with the global effects of migration, we're going to have to have immigration, like food, pandemics or basic education, finally be dealt with in a global way, because it's already planetarized. it's called "regulating" the common parts of the planetary co-ownership.
, in writing. the text which will be put to the vote tomorrow is a clear step backwards, not only in relation to the commission's original proposal but above all in relation to the work done in the libé committee, of which i am a member. we socialists are in favour of the introduction of minimum rules on the return of illegal aliens because we advocate a responsible and humane approach to illegal immigration and we know that some eu member states have policies in this area which are unacceptable from the point of view of respect for fundamental rights. but it is clear that the so-called 'compromise' supported by the conservatives and the majority of the liberals does not allow for any improvement in this respect. it does not apply to asylum seekers or to persons intercepted at the border. above all, it leaves member states far too much latitude on such essential issues as the rights of minors and the length of detention. the latter may be extended to 18 months. like many of my colleagues, i refuse to support the possibility of imprisoning for so long people whose only crime is that they wanted to seek better living conditions on european territory. that is why, if my group's amendments are rejected, i shall vote against this text in good conscience.
, in writing. mr president,ladies and gentlemen,tomorrow we are going to vote on a text which the member states and the most conservative of us are presenting as a compromise. but let us not be fooled: this text is not a compromise, it is a real compromise! what is the council and the rapporteur proposing in this directive on return if not to guarantee the possibility for states to imprison a person who has arrived illegally but is not guilty of any crime for 18 months and then banish him from european territory for five years? finally, our assembly has the benefit of codecision on immigration: we therefore not only have the opportunity to play a level playing field with the council, we have the duty to do so! let us not waste this opportunity: by adopting the directive as it stands, we would be accepting that the council should dismantle all the progress made in human rights here over the three years of negotiations. i therefore hope that we will reject this text; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a genuine european immigration policy, not the illusory protection of a fortress europe.
mr president, commissioner, i think that we have a balanced report, with our rapporteur, mr david casa, to welcome the political decision we are about to take, the entry of slovakia into the euro area. it is the first country in the so-called visegrád group to join this area and i think that from a political point of view this has an important significance which must be emphasized. for slovaks, it is the end of one adventure and the beginning of another. this is the end of the preparation and the conditioning of compliance with the maastricht criteria. experience shows that once a country has joined the euro, the most difficult part sometimes remains to be done. in the slovak case, we can see that there is still a lot to be done in terms of controlling inflation or maintaining balance, as well as in terms of social cohesion or implementing structural reforms. i believe that the mechanisms we are considering for economic and monetary union in the future to better support and work together on how member states use their currency will be useful in this regard. the maastricht criteria, we have talked about them a lot, we will not change them. no one asked for them to be changed and yet they have to be interpreted, they have to be analysed in a context which has changed. the economic and monetary union is now ten years old and we know that it still has imperfections in the balance between economic and monetary policy, thanks to its external representativeness. the slovak republic is now a member of the economic and monetary union. it is not the same situation as it was ten years ago and we all have to take that into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to tell you that we can check whether you are allowed to repeat a vote that has already taken place after you have announced the result. it seems to us that this is not possible under the rules of parliament.
mr president, i think you are going way too fast. so, as you have done on other days, but again on an amendment to the jackson report, you said exactly: 'who is in favour', 'abstentions', 'adopted'. that is to say, you exclude the possibility of voting against. mr president, i know you like mrs jackson and that what is happening here has little to do with democracy, but please respect the formalities! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i beg your pardon, but i am probably the victim of a secret lobby. my machine agrees to vote "for", it refuses to vote "against". sometimes it can be embarrassing. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. it is shocking that a dangerous criminal can hide behind the lack of information on his criminal record in order to escape the rigors of justice or to carry out his crimes in other member states. the case of fourniret is a sad and painful example of this. in these circumstances, allowing the compilation of complete criminal records, containing convictions in different states and easily available, appears to be a welcome improvement. but this laudable initiative does not only target the pedophile monsters, the murderers, the robbers... it also targets, by the introduction of the simple words "defections following a criminal conviction", the international prosecution of crimes of opinion. and we know well, in this mad europe, open to all the winds of uncontrolled immigration, in perpetual remorse for what it was, what it is and what it could be, who is its target: the patriots attached to their identity, proud of their people, their nation and their history, and who dare to proclaim loud and clear their will to defend them. we shall therefore abstain because we fear that this text will allow, beyond the legitimate suppression of crimes, the extension to the whole union of the freedom-threatening laws which are so damaging to the democratic life of our countries.
in writing. according to oecd figures, we will produce 45% more waste by 2020 than in 1995. it is therefore urgent that the european union develops a new waste management strategy which allows each waste to be considered not only as a source of pollution to be reduced but also as a potential resource to be exploited. the compromise adopted in plenary today will focus on prevention and recycling with a target of stabilising the volume of waste produced by 2012 and recycling targets of 50% of household waste and 70% of construction and demolition waste by 2020 , impose separate collection by 2015 for at least paper, metal, plastic and glass, strengthen the regulation for hazardous waste by imposing separate collection and reliable traceability, separate collection of waste oils also to be provided, and differentiate incineration operations for the final disposal of waste from those that generate energy recovery. thus, under an energy efficiency formula, only the most energy efficient municipal solid waste incinerators will be classified as recovery facilities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which sets environmental quality standards for priority substances and certain other pollutants, with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of the aquatic environment. 33 pollutants (mainly pesticides and heavy metals) that can be found in rivers, lakes and coastal waters will be subject to environmental quality standards. these substances can threaten the survival of ecosystems but also - through the food chain - human health. the compromise that has just been voted will thus allow member states to 'make progress' towards meeting these standards by 2018. the decision to classify new substances as 'priority' or 'dangerous' should be taken by the commission as soon as possible. in the vicinity of sources of pollution, it will not be possible to meet environmental quality standards quickly. in these 'mixing zones' concentrations of pollutants could exceed the limits set. we must have the necessary guarantees that the member states use the best available techniques for water treatment when they determine 'mixing zones'.
in writing. in the light of the recent maritime disasters of the erika and the prestige, it is clear that the human factor is a very serious aspect of maritime safety. the proper training of the crews is therefore essential. i would like to raise two fundamental points in this connection. the first concerns the very logic of europe's wish: the refusal to promote in any way the employment of seamen from member states. on the contrary, far from being a community preference, the aim is, as in all economic and social fields, to encourage the recruitment of non-community seamen. this deliberately anti-national approach will only increase the current shortage of qualified seafarers in the union and the lack of interest in this difficult and dangerous profession. all this for the benefit of an under-skilled, cheap labour force from asian countries. secondly, it is a question of ensuring the highest possible guarantees as regards the quality of training, its control and the granting of licences. instead of mutual recognition of diplomas based on lower technical standards outside the community, let us preserve and restore the true value of our diplomas and save our jobs at sea in the name of maritime safety and the protection of our national jobs.
in writing. each 'european year' is an opportunity for the union to spend large sums of money on its propaganda, on a theme deemed to be promising in the media. 2010 will therefore be the year of the fight against poverty. will it also be the fight against globalisation, which is causing unemployment? will it also be the year of the fight against immigration, which puts downward pressure on wages in europe? will it be the year in which we abandon the economic, trade, financial and fiscal policies which are inevitably driving the european middle classes into poverty? will it be european, caught between the fight against poverty at the global level and the inevitable priority given to non-european migrants, who are among the most vulnerable population groups? the persistence and increase of poverty in europe is a scandal. they deserve better than a 'european year' to promote the eurocracy. they deserve to be the focus of all your decisions. experience has shown that, unfortunately, outside the agreed speeches, this is not the case.
in writing. the european commission proposes to make 2010 the 'european year for the fight against poverty and social exclusion'. with the largest budget ever planned for a european year, the political connotation of the project is very clear. this year of 'struggle' will only serve to try to revive the banner of a european union which is experiencing the total failure of its lisbon strategy. if the fight against poverty and social exclusion is a priority that must be supported, despite all these pious wishes, this europe will have known nothing or been able to do anything to improve the lot of the 78 million europeans living below the poverty line. that is why i shall vote against this report, whose only avowed political aim is to flatter the propaganda of the euro-globalists. in the wake of the irish no vote, it is time for the arrogance of the europeans to be erased and for an objective questioning of the current european construction. this absurd system must be reformed urgently in order to maintain a europe of cooperation and not of submission. the europe of nations must finally emerge, which promotes community protection and preference for europeans first.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we went to paris with the economic committee to study all these directives and we met both the trade unions and the electricity transmission networks. all argued for a stronger agency than the one proposed by the commission. we are not ignorant of the case law of the court of justice and we have noted that the commission proposed not to change the treaty in order to avoid difficulties. that is why our economic committee recommends in its opinion that everything be done to strengthen supervision, recommendations and suspension of decisions, but that the agency not be given administrative police powers, even to the point of imposing fines. only the commission has this power of administrative police. i believe that in this context it is possible to take account both of the treaties as they stand and of the need to regulate the market.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin by addressing the question of the division of assets, although i do not think that is the most important issue. on the contrary, i think we have wasted time, too much time on this issue. to be or not to be separated is not the question. managing a network requires industrial know-how. electricity is not stored, it is a matter of maintaining the frequency and voltage of the grid according to market demands. however, by separating assets, the commission does not rule out the risks of speculative or political management of the network. the question of ownership, industrial management and network security has not, in my view, been sufficiently analysed. beyond this issue, we have succeeded in advancing a key player in the functioning of the internal market, the regulators. they must be equipped with genuine skills to enable them to ensure their rights and duties. through the cooperation agency, regulators will have a central role in all cross-border issues and in the harmonisation of technical commercial codes to ensure better operation and safety of networks. my group has tabled three amendments: the first aims to make it clear that the interests of the individual consumer and of industry must be at the centre of the functioning of the internal market. this is a scriptural fact, but it is good to repeat it. the second concerns longterm contracts subject to compliance with certain principles. they must be seen not as a restriction of competition but as a factor of stability. it should be noted that this demand comes from industrial consumers. finally, the third is to stimulate thought. the commission, in consultation with all the market players, should consider the creation of a european transmission system operator. this ultimate goal is far off, but it is worth thinking about. the future of the internal electricity market could thus be better secured with a european electricity transmission network.
madam president, listening to all my colleagues this afternoon, i am a little surprised because we all agree on the need for a large european energy market, but i think we have to work on energy efficiency above all else so that the consumer bill is as low as possible. so we all agree on the objective to be achieved but not on the means to achieve it. i have not heard much talk or heard much reference to the agreement reached in the council on 6 june, which does not necessarily require the decoupling of ownership, production and distribution. if the decoupling of assets and the single market had led to a fall in energy prices, this would have been obvious. this is not the case in spain, it is not the case in britain and the commission has never been able to demonstrate this. so let us stop demonizing some large companies which, in fact, have industrial know-how and have demonstrated their efficiency. when we want interconnections, when we want solidarity to play a role, it is probably preferable that the member states should be free to use several models. let us put an end to this single-mindedness which rejects the third way, which accuses a so-called franco-german cartel. we know that the market alone does not solve the problem of monopolies, which are everywhere. member states have taken a step towards an acceptable package that can be improved by small tweaks. if we do not accept it, we risk not having a text at all, while our fellow citizens are waiting. i would particularly like to see this parliament not be divided into the good and the bad, those who still want to reach an agreement with the council.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the colleagues who contributed to the drafting of this resolution and i would like to stress that it is supported by all the political groups. why such unanimity? no doubt because it expresses our dissatisfaction with the attitude and method of the commission, which are part of the denial of democracy that the european parliament has been suffering on this issue for several weeks. the commission's insistence on ignoring the opinion of members and experts on the import of chlorinated chicken is particularly shocking. mr verheugen is indeed responsible for negotiating with his american counterpart to promote trade between our two great regions, but can he do so at the expense of european health standards? how could the college of commissioners endorse such a project if it merely proposed mandatory labelling, a revision of the provisions in two years' time, etc.? how is it that the commission, after having acknowledged that it lacked information on these substances, does not apply the precautionary principle? it is also questionable that there is no reference to the findings of the cdc, the us centres for disease control, which a few weeks ago reported an increase in infections and contamination with salmonella, listeria and other bacteria. why should we import a method which has not been proven to work? another important point to remember is that the implementation of european food safety legislation has required years of work and collaboration with the professionals in the sector, who have agreed to invest in meeting the expectations of european citizens. this whole food chain approach is the most sustainable approach to reducing pathogen levels. this is the choice we have made and do you think that we can build a relationship of trust and a strong and reliable partnership by not reaffirming to our american partners some of our principles and values? the question is whether imported products would be subject to the same rules as european poultry. finally, i would like to remind you that this decision is all the more incomprehensible since the european commission has decided to counterattack the wto with regard to the dsb's decision on hormone-treated beef. i think there is a great deal of confusion and misunderstanding among consumers about this variable geometry positioning and there is legitimate doubt about the european commission's policy on food safety and hygiene. the european council will shortly take a decision on the commission's proposal. we ask him to take account of the position of parliament and the committee on the food chain: to give priority to health over trade.
mr president, this chlorinated chicken case illustrates the unfortunate gap between the european commission and the citizens who expect to have confidence in europe. it is a blow to our food policy with its high degree of consumer protection. so there is a total misunderstanding. it is unfair competition to our farmers, who have made enormous efforts to improve their production, and to our slaughterhouses, which must comply with strict rules. all of this comes at a cost, so competition is unfair. and this will make it possible to introduce low-priced chickens into the european union, which will unfortunately affect the most disadvantaged populations who are buying at discount prices, and we will find these chlorinated chickens in processed products, in industrial dishes, in school canteens. all of this is unacceptable. it is unthinkable that we can allow that. and let no one tell us that labelling should solve the problem, because unfortunately, on processed products, labelling will not give any information. so, in the wake of the food crisis, citizens need to have confidence in the food chain. for this reason we must absolutely say no to the importation of chlorinated chickens.
the chairman of the council. the second european council under the slovenian presidency will begin tomorrow. i am pleased to present to you today the main topics of the talks for the heads of state and government. the main debate will certainly be devoted to examining the situation following the referendum on the lisbon treaty in ireland on thursday. at the outset, i would like to stress the words of the president of the european council, slovenian prime minister janez jansa: 'the presidency regrets and is disappointed by the decision of the irish voters. of course, we respect the expressed will of the irish voters. 'following the publication of the official results, the president of the european council held talks with a number of heads of state or government of member states which have not yet completed the ratification procedure. the encouraging news is that these member states will continue their ratification procedures. as the president of the european council has stressed, the treaty of lisbon is needed by european citizens and by the european union, as it brings greater efficiency, greater democracy and greater transparency. it is also a fact that the problems and challenges we face today in the union remain. it is also a fact that the negative outcome of the irish referendum did not solve these problems. the leaders will therefore discuss how to find a way out of the situation at tomorrow's european council. they will endeavour to set a timeframe for working on this issue. the presidency is confident that we will find a solution, together with ireland, and that the union will not face a repetition of the situation of 2005. we shall be hearing, in particular, from the irish prime minister, mr brian cowen, at the european council, who will be asked to explain the circumstances and reasons which underpinned the outcome of the referendum. the european council will not, of course, ignore the other equally important challenges that lie ahead. the european union, moving forward. so the second key debate will focus on rising food and oil prices. in fact, rising product prices have contributed to the increase in inflation across the european union. this has hit families and others on low incomes the hardest. at the global level, the developing countries that are net food importers are the most affected. a european union response is needed, which must show unity in its mitigation actions both at home and in developing countries. the european council should therefore endorse measures within the european union and at international level. let me introduce you to them briefly. the european union has already taken measures to ease pressure on food prices by selling off intervention stocks, reducing export refunds, abolishing the requirement to abandon production for 2008, increasing milk quotas and waiving import duties on cereals. all this should help to improve supply and stabilise agricultural markets. given that low-income families are the most affected, some member states have also provided for short-term measures to alleviate the pressure of high prices. we certainly have to think long-term in this matter. for food or oil prices are not expected to return to their former levels anytime soon. we expect the next presidency, in close cooperation with the european parliament, to reach a timely agreement on the review of the common agricultural policy, which will include measures to strengthen agricultural production and ensure food security. in addition, we need to pay attention to biofuels policy and find a way to ensure their sustainable production, both within the european union itself and in other countries. in particular, the development of second-generation biofuels should be encouraged. in general, however, we need to continue to work on innovation and research and development in the agricultural sector in order to improve its efficiency and productivity. in its initiatives at international level, the european council will highlight the european union's contribution to the global effort to reverse the effects of price rises. this will also include calling for a more coordinated international response to crises caused by high food prices, in particular within the united nations and the g8, supporting an open trade policy, responding swiftly to immediate short-term humanitarian needs and encouraging support for agricultural recovery in developing countries. in addition to high food prices, the european union is facing higher oil prices, to which the european economy will have to adapt in the long term. a special discussion is scheduled for today. it is a priority for the presidency that the european council also highlights the actions taken in the area of the european perspective of the western balkans. in this regard, i would like to highlight in particular the conclusion of a network of stabilisation and association agreements and the launch of a visa liberalisation dialogue with all the countries of the region. in addition, the leaders will underline the importance of involving all countries in the region in regional cooperation and welcome a range of sectoral initiatives. the western balkans is a region surrounded by eu member states and therefore particularly needs confirmation of its european future and our help in implementing reforms. the presidency highly appreciates the support of the european parliament in this regard. the implementation of the millennium development goals will also be an important item on the agenda. 2008 is exactly halfway through the period we have set ourselves to achieve these goals. the european union is the largest donor of development aid and, aware of its responsibilities, is prepared to play an active role in promoting the international community to achieve the millennium development goals. the european council will therefore emphasise the role of the european union in international conferences and its commitments. the third important round of discussions at the european council will be devoted to economic, social and environmental issues. the first thing to be highlighted here is the review of the work on the climate and energy package. the slovene presidency achieved its objectives for the package, and the key political decisions taken at the european council in march were decisive. the european council will also take note of the agreement on the liberalisation of energy markets, which was debated in parliament yesterday. the european council will also review progress on key files in the areas of migration, justice and the fight against terrorism, building on the decisions taken in december last year. finally, the leaders will also address issues related to the union's neighbourhood policy. on the one hand, it will build on and strengthen past successes, on the one hand it will build on the union for the mediterranean's barcelona process, and on the other hand the european council will welcome recent proposals to develop the eastern partnership in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. on the sidelines of the meeting, the heads of government and state will also discuss the european commission's proposal to include slovakia as the 16th member state in the economic and monetary union as from 1 january 2009, and i would like to congratulate slovakia in particular on this. in short, the positions and debates of this parliament have made a significant contribution to shaping the european council's agenda. this debate, which will follow and which we will be following closely, will also make a useful and important contribution to the discussion between the heads of state or government, and i shall be very interested to hear it. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the commission. − madam president, the european council starting tomorrow has a heavy agenda covering many issues where citizens expect europe to act. (some members on the right, who were wearing green t-shirts, stood up to display banners and posters calling for respect for the ‘no’ vote in ireland. the president asked them to remove the banners and posters.) the issues are the surge in oil and food prices, climate change and energy security, migration and asylum to name but a few. but of course foremost in everybody’s mind will be the ‘no’ vote in ireland. this ‘no’ vote was a disappointment to all those in favour of a stronger, more efficient and accountable european union. the lisbon treaty remains essential to help us respond to the challenges that europe faces today; to have a more democratic union, increasing the powers of this parliament and recognising the role of national parliaments in european politics; to enhance europe’s capacity to act in areas like migration, energy, climate change, internal security; to increase europe’s coherence and effectiveness on the global stage. these challenges have not gone away. the truth is that the ‘no’ vote did not solve the problems which the treaty seeks to tackle. for the last six years we have spent a lot of energy on institutional issues. with so many key issues pressing for action today we cannot afford this energy to go to waste, and the world does not stop and wait for europe. as i said last week, the commission fully respects the outcome of the irish referendum. we must show the same respect for all national ratifications, (applause)whether they have chosen to take the route of referendum or of parliamentary ratification. there have been 19 democratic decisions in the process so far: 18 in favour of the lisbon treaty; one against. eight other member states still have to take position. the irish government has set out clearly its respect for the right of other countries to continue their ratification processes. this is, i believe, self-evident. all the countries in europe are equal; all the countries have the right to express their opinion. (applause)while it is clear that the lisbon treaty cannot enter into force before unanimity about its ratification, it is also clear that an irish vote decides on the irish position but cannot determine the position of other countries. i expect the member states that did not ratify the lisbon treaty to continue their own ratification processes. (applause) the european council gives us all an opportunity to listen very carefully to what prime minister cowen will say. then we must work very closely with the irish government to help solve this problem. let me be clear: ireland has a responsibility to contribute to finding a solution. when governments sign the treaty they assume a responsibility to have it ratified. but let me be equally clear: this is a time for us to be serious about solidarity. twenty-seven member states signed the treaty; we must make every effort to make sure that 27 member states find a way forward. member states are equal in their dignity and we should be clear about that. this will take time and effort for the irish, but also for all of us. i do not think that we can rush into a premature decision about the next step. we need to take the time to find a real consensus and see what is possible for ireland. but equally we should not take too long. i know that this parliament is keen to give voters clarity on the way forward by the time of the european elections. the european commission is ready to make its contribution – and i am sure this parliament is too – but there is no way around the fact that governments have a particular responsibility here: in signing the treaty, in making sure it is ratified, in promoting the european project in their national public opinions. and on this last point let me make a general comment that i think may be useful for the debate that is going on now. years of treating the european institutions as a convenient scapegoat leaves fertile ground for populist campaigns. (applause)as i have said several times before, you cannot bash brussels or strasbourg from monday to saturday and expect citizens to vote in favour of europe on sunday. (applause) tomorrow the european council will also stress that the ‘no’ vote must not be a reason for the european union to fall into the trap of institutional navel-gazing. we have made important progress in the past couple of years and it has been on the back of a determined effort to deliver policies in the interests of european citizens. at a time when rising food and oil prices are leading to great expectations for action, we cannot afford to abandon this path. that is why i very much welcome prime minister janez janša and the slovenian presidency’s decision to ring-fence the debate on lisbon to the dinner on thursday night and to devote the rest of the european council to furthering our policy agenda. today, everyone is feeling the pressure of price rises in food and fuel but for some there is an extra burden. for poorer households these costs are a bigger share of the household budget so the rises hit even harder. the same is true for some economic activities, with fuel so critical for some industries. in two communications on food and oil prices the commission has made a careful analysis of the causes of the price rises, of where the squeeze is most intense and of what we can and should do. the european union needs to show that it is bringing to bear the full range of measures available at european and national level. we need to take a dynamic and imaginative look at the tools at our disposal – to look at what will have a real impact in the short, medium and long term. let us remember previous oil shocks where europe failed to learn the long-term lessons. let us hope this time it will be not as it happened in the past, where after all the oil shocks we came back to business as usual. i hope this time we really have an opportunity to change, and to change the paradigm of energy consumption in europe and in the world. to alleviate problems on food inside the european union we will come forward with proposals to extend our scheme to distribute food to the most deprived before seeking a two-thirds increase in the budget for this specific area. in addition, the european union has tools which can and will be brought to bear: to monitor prices, to use competition powers to check the food supply chain, boosting reserves, ensuring that the cap is well attuned to the current realities of the agricultural market. as for oil prices, immediate steps are justified to help the most hard-pressed households. however, it will be futile for governments to use public money to offset energy-price rises that are here, most likely, to stay. we should also look at the levels available to the european union in areas such as competition and taxation. the commission will come up with proposals to increase transparency in emergency and commercial oil stocks. we will also come with proposals on taxation to support and facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy, namely in the field of energy efficiency. we will also support a high-level meeting of producers and consumers of oil and fossil fuel energy. specifically on fisheries: we will come forward with an emergency package to address problems of economic and social hardship, allowing member states to give short-term emergency aid, and we will look again at the rules on small-scale state aid. i have three points here. first, it must be coordinated: we should avoid a rash of national initiatives which simply displace the problems elsewhere in the union. secondly, we must target our alleviation efforts on the worst-hit segments of the fleet. thirdly, we must find structural solutions to overcapacity in the fishing industry. the pressures being faced by europeans today show why the european union’s goals on energy security, energy efficiency and climate change are so crucial to the well-being of european society, and this is why they are more urgent than ever. as demand continues to outstrip supply in oil and gas, the goals agreed last year provide a ready-made path to reduce europe’s vulnerability and to reduce the economic pain of future price hikes. the key aspects of the package of proposals that we have put forward and are now being considered by this parliament will make a decisive contribution. the basic idea is the following: the prices of energy most likely will never go back to previous levels, so there is a structural problem there. we can, and we should, have short-term answers, namely for those who are the most vulnerable in our societies. however, for a structural problem we need a structural answer, a structural response. the structural response is our climate change and renewables package; it is not to be dependent on fossil fuels but to promote renewables and to do more in terms of energy efficiency. that is the basic line we should follow. (applause) so i hope that now in europe those who still have doubts about the importance of changing our energy paradigm, those who still have doubts about the need to fight climate change, will understand at last that, if not because of that but because of energy security and because of the need to increase our competitiveness in our economy, we really need to deliver on our commitments regarding climate change and renewables. the structural response to the structural challenges we face basically is to save and diversify. by saving i mean increasing energy efficiency where we have a huge unexploited potential. diversification covers both the sources and the geographical origin of energy. both are about increasing europe’s energy security. adoption of our climate change and energy security package is, therefore, a matter of urgency. the task of the european council will be to give a signal about this and to prepare everything to reach a political agreement at the latest, we hope, by next december. i think it is an important task of the european council to show that the ‘no’ vote on the lisbon treaty is not an excuse to avoid action. it should not mean paralysis for europe. we must show that we will find the right way to secure the efficient and democratic europe the treaty has been designed to deliver. let me conclude with a more political remark. i think we – those who have supported and are supporting the lisbon treaty, this parliament and the commission – should not make apologies for that, because the competition outside is stronger than ever; it will be tougher than ever. what we need is a european union that works better for our citizens, to deliver on the real challenges that face us. those challenges will remain: the problems of energy security, the problem of climate change, the problems of international terrorism, the problems of increased competition coming from emerging powers, and the problems of migration. those challenges are there and we need to tackle them in a more efficient manner. therefore, let us not now put the blame on the european union. let us be honest about it. it is true that very often when we hold a referendum we have seen a ‘no’ vote regarding europe. but let us be completely honest. if there were a referendum on most of our national policies and most of our initiatives, would we always have a ‘yes’ vote? therefore, let us not always put the blame on the european union or the european intuitions. the truth is that, today, to take political decisions at european, national or regional level is a very tough matter. therefore, we have to be wise, prudent and serious about it. we should not always put the blame on the european union. on the contrary, we should work to make it better: be modest about the setbacks, understand what is not going well, make our improvements and not give up on our commitment. i believe the best way to do that is to avoid pessimism and not to go back to a situation of crisophilie, a crisis for the sake of a crisis. pessimism will not solve this problem. it is true we have a serious problem, but we should solve it and not fall back into depression. the best way to show that we are committed to our project – and in that regard i would also like to welcome the intentions of the french presidency – is to work concretely on the most important areas where the european union can deliver and help our member states deliver on those problems that are really the first concern of our citizens. i hope that we will not be demoralised by this and will keep our line. what we need, of course, is sailors and navigators for fair weather but also for stormy times. i believe we should stay on course and go on with our project so that europe is more necessary than ever. (applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of irish voters have expressed their opposition to the lisbon treaty. my group respects this decision as it respects the decision of the 18 member states which have so far expressed their support for the treaty and ratified it. the european union is founded on freedom of expression and democracy. we are therefore, as democrats, hoping that all the member states will express their views on the ratification of the treaty. only at the end of this process will the european council be able to decide on the next steps to be taken; in other words, and however respectable ireland's decision may be, no member state can deprive others of the freedom to express their views. we hope that the european council will make a calm, responsible and constructive analysis of the situation created by this vote this week. the epp members of my group want the european council to call on the member states which have not yet done so to proceed with the ratification of the treaty as it should. ladies and gentlemen, the irish people have spoken. he expressed his concern about the purpose of european integration, the way in which europe is being managed, the future of agricultural policy, the wto negotiations and tax policy. the irish vote also reflects the lack of understanding of many people about the complexities of the european union and the fact that they do not always see the usefulness of it. it reflects the question that many citizens have asked themselves about the purpose of european integration. but the motivation that was mine and that of my generation - to secure peace on our continent - is no longer understood by the younger generations. the irish 'no' is a call to define better the tasks of europe, and to explain better the reasons for its deepening. the european parliament, which votes on texts that are often difficult to read, must play its full part in this exercise. but did the irish people mean by voting no that on climate and energy, on the new food system, on human security, on immigration or foreign policy, our countries are self-sufficient and can fight on equal terms with the united states, china, india or brazil? i don't think he did. in voting no, did the irish people mean that the solidarity with the less well-off countries from which they have so richly and rightly benefited in recent decades is no longer relevant and that the rule is now every man for himself? i don't think he did. finally, did the irish vote no to european integration, did they give a negative signal to the accession of a country like croatia? i don't think he did. the epp members of my group are convinced that the lisbon treaty, which was the subject of long negotiations and was signed by the 27 member states, represents a significant step forward compared to the treaty of nice. it makes europe work better, and it also gives it the tools to be more visible in the world. i only wish that the period of introspection in europe should end as soon as possible, because it is time for our countries - if i may use the expression - to 'stop looking at each other's navels and to tackle together the real problems and the real challenges', the very challenges which should mobilize us and which cause deep concern, and sometimes anger, as we shall see again on thursday in brussels, for all those whom the economic situation is weakening and handicapping. mr president-in-office of the council, i ask you to ensure that tomorrow at the council we take account of the real problems, the welfare of our fellow citizens in europe, and that we take up the whole range of increases which are causing concern to our fellow citizens. and in this heated debate, the members of my group call for calm and reason. let us listen to the irish, let us learn from their vote, and let us treat the other peoples of the other european countries with the same respect. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council would be wise to refrain from any arrogance against the irish people who have merely exercised a democratic right recognized by the constitution. rather than calling for the ratification process to continue in an attempt to isolate this new black sheep, it would be better to make a clear diagnosis of the situation. in my group's view, the irish 'no' vote, which was particularly strong among the popular strata, and which is also reflected in the fact that voter turnout was much higher than in the past, shows that the crisis of legitimacy of the present european model is deepening. this crisis was already at the heart of the french and dutch "no"s, and elsewhere it is expressed differently but it is underlying everywhere. remember the general mobilization against the bolkestein directive; i would like to remind you of the debate which took place, particularly in the scandinavian countries, after the laval and viking cases and in germany, after the rüffert judgment. on that note, i want to say to my friend martin schulz that i agree with everything he said about mr mccreevy. the problem is that these decisions - which i have just mentioned - were taken not by mr mccreevy but by the court of justice on the basis of specific articles (43 and 49 of the current treaties, as incorporated in the treaty of lisbon). we should also remember the political significance of the powerful dacia strike in romania against the low-cost europe. imagine the anger of farmers or small fishermen who are being thrown down. the first thing that is at stake everywhere is the current european economic and social model. instead of bringing security, it increases insecurity. that's problem number one. what is also at issue is the way the union works. decisions are made away from the people and without them. we just explain them to them instead of consulting them. the deliberate choice to present the lisbon treaty in a form which is totally illegible to the layman is, in this respect, a spectacular illustration of what i would call 'the ivory tower syndrome', which has devastating effects on our fellow citizens, all the more so in the less populated nations, who feel that they are being swayed by the interests of the most powerful. finally, questions are being raised in many countries, including ireland, about europe's role in the world, where it is expected to make the force of politics prevail much more decisively over the policy of force. to ignore these debates is to exacerbate the crisis in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
mr president, it is of course never a minor event to see people say no when they are asked about the future of europe, and we cannot, we must not ignore that no. i think we should look at it and try to respond to it. i think there are two questions that we have to deal with. the first is democracy. citizens expect europe to provide readability, visibility, understanding, explanations, education and guidance. this is a question for everyone, not just national governments. it is also for the european institutions and, more particularly, for the commission and the council. that's the first question. the second concerns the meaning of europe, its soul and, as martin schulz said earlier, its raison d'être. why did we do europe? this cannot be reduced to the market question alone. we did not make europe for competition alone; we are united by values, we have a social project, we have a model of society, economic, social, sustainable, human, and this model is worth taking on, wearing and defending. that is what our fellow citizens expect. since the treaty of rome, the world has changed considerably. we must rethink, re-shape the european project so that it responds to the crises we face today - the financial crisis, the food crisis, the energy crisis - but also to the enormous problems that lie ahead of us. how can we create, design a growth tomorrow that is more qualitative, more sustainable, more equitable? how can we reduce inequality in the future? how can we achieve a new balance in the world? how can we re-think the question of developing countries, and in particular their self-sufficiency? these are all questions to which we must give answers and i think it is more than ever time for europe to finally get back to politics.
mr president, it is june 18th and as a frenchman i am imbued with the appeal from london. resist, keep going, persevere and never give up. we write the word veto with the four letters of the word vote, but there's no veto for the others, so we have to keep going. however, this is the sixth no out of nine referendums since the fall of the berlin wall. it asks. they say that europe is not social enough, and it will never be social enough. it's not democratic enough, it's imperfect. too bureaucratic, there will always be technicians we call technocrats. i think she's having a terrible identity crisis. it used to be simple. today, she is a little confused, she doesn't quite understand what her meaning is, her history, her destiny, that's what we have to deal with. it takes great leadership and we are a bit of an orphan in that respect. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, we all know that democracy is not a long, quiet river, but we also know that it is the democracy we have chosen to organise our society. so for me, the irish non-being is no different from the french or dutch non-being, but, as in 2005, we have not been able to explain why europe is good for our citizens. we have not been able to reassure them of the ecological crisis that is striking them head on. i am not in favour of speculation, however, and i think we should wait until the ratification process is completed. i would ask the council, however, to send strong signals to the citizens to show that there is a real desire for transparency and a desire to increase democracy in relation to our fellow citizens. i ask the council to open its doors and i call for the commission and council presidencies to be appointed at the same time as the european elections. yes, that would be a strong signal and we don't need the ratification of the treaty to put that kind of change in place.
in writing. as from tomorrow, the european council will be required to draw conclusions from the outcome of the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty. it is up to ireland, through its prime minister, to give an analysis of this vote and to reiterate its desire to see progress in the construction of europe. i hope that the twenty-seven will commit themselves to continuing the ratification process in the member states which have not yet taken a decision so that we can finally know the exact position of each member state on this text in the union. the slovenian and then french presidencies must strive to find a legally acceptable solution with ireland, which can put a definitive end to more than 15 years of efforts to reform the functioning of enlarged europe. the responsibilities of the french presidency will undoubtedly increase, given the turbulent european context and the soaring world prices for food commodities and hydrocarbons. the citizens of europe are skeptical. the european council must show them that europe is helping to meet their expectations by reaching decisions on the issues of substance. if this does not immediately settle the institutional question, it is nevertheless the best way of showing the irish that they have been heard.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
in principle, anything which does not directly disturb the work should not be prohibited, but if the house considers that these signs are obstructing the work... well, i do not have the impression that there is a majority who consider themselves to be obstructed. so we're moving on.
as president, i would like to welcome today ten members of the south sudanese legislative assembly, led by its president, mr wani igga, who have come all the way to strasbourg to visit the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank you. the south sudanese legislative assembly, where they sit, is the result of the comprehensive peace agreement that was signed in 2005 after a long and brutal civil war. the assembly plays a crucial role in ensuring the legislative implementation and implementation of the peace agreement. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to say that we support your assembly in its efforts to address the challenges facing sudan at present, especially in the run-up to elections next year. we hope that your visit will contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict in sudan and will stimulate a political dialogue between the european parliament and your assembly on the post-conflict reconstruction process in your country. so welcome to the european parliament.
you would be perfectly right if the amendment had not been invalidated by the previous vote. you could have taken it back, but as a previous vote rendered this amendment obsolete, you cannot take it back, i regret that.
for the greens/efa group mr president, first of all, i would like to apologise for my absence during this crucial vote. the sncf train between paris and strasbourg was delayed by an hour and a quarter, so a number of colleagues and i were unable to vote in favour of this directive and resolution. i would have voted against this resolution and this directive, as would my group. i would like to express my deepest disgust. the dignity that reigns in this parliament and in the european union is not equal to the detention centres in which dozens, if not hundreds or thousands of our fellow citizens of immigrant origin or immigrants are held. there is a kind of defence in the european union which is not acceptable, from my point of view and from our point of view. we must, of course, manage migration flows today, but in relation to economic immigration, in relation to climate immigration which is about to arrive, we cannot respond with defenses like those that were voted on earlier. if we were to continue to put the necessary, indispensable development aid into the framework of the european union, the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, we might be able to react in this way, and we are not there yet. we are at 0.38% of the budget instead of 0.42% and we had planned to do 0.7%. i 'm telling you , seriously . i am ashamed of our parliament today and i am ashamed of the european union we want to build, a european union which welcomes and makes it possible for all the citizens of the world to be welcomed within the framework of the european union.
mr president, 10 million illegal immigrants in europe, 300 per boeing, would require more than 30 000 boeing to fly to meet the return directive, that is more than 1 000 boeing to fly from each of the 27 european capitals over three years. it's already digital crazy and surreal. but there's more to it than that. since immigration is only a social reflection of economic globalisation, where global capitalism competes with workers, we are drawing up a directive to deal with the reflection of a problem. i don't know if it's a farce or a joke, but it's myopia. on the planet, nomads do walk because they want to eat, drink, heal, educate themselves. food and its crisis, water and its distribution, pandemics and their spread are already the common parts that nations have in common ownership of the planet. the sooner we deal with and manage politically in common what is already in fact common, the sooner we will deal with...
mr president, the immigration campaigners have been waging a campaign of disinformation against this directive on the expulsion of illegal immigrants, which they call the 'shame directive'. it's just political comedy, well-worn left and right. the left protests for extra rights for immigrants which they get while giving a label of fake firmness. in reality, this text, as amended, organises the rights of illegal aliens who can be expelled and their retention in europe much more than it guarantees their return. the detention in a closed centre is a highly regulated last resort; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. states with lower legal ceilings will retain them. the voluntary departure period avoids the ban on the territory of the union for those concerned and the states are invited to make a regularisation, under any pretext. in other words, france, which has the most lax legislation in europe, will not be obliged to change it, let alone toughen it. mr sarkozy will be able to make it appear otherwise, using the gestures of the left. it is only because of the few positive aspects of this document that...
in writing. i am pleased that mr weber's report on the return directive was adopted by a large majority. this vote is a clear demonstration that the european parliament has not succumbed to the demagogic and populist campaign against this draft directive, preferring the path of responsibility and pragmatism. the european parliament has shown its maturity and conscience by adopting a text which will undoubtedly raise the level of protection of the nationals concerned in the member states where it is at its lowest or even zero. this vote has the double merit of not calling into question existing national systems which already offer sufficient guarantees - this is the case, for example, of france - and of bringing the member states with the most restrictive and least protective systems down to a more humane level. this text, which does not concern asylum seekers, is only a starting point towards the framing and minimum harmonisation of immigration rules. it should not be seen in isolation but as part of the overall eu policy to promote the legal immigration we need.
in writing. much noise on the left and the far left to stigmatise the weber report, parliament's translation of the return directive, which is not up to the challenges of immigration policy. it is hardly worth recalling, as it should be obvious, that crossing a border illegally without a visa or residence permit is fraud and must be punished as such. furthermore, by taking away their papers or by refusing to say where they come from so as not to be sent back to their country of origin, illegal immigrants are solely responsible for the length of detention, which some wrongly consider to be too long. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the weber report, however inadequate, is going in the right direction. i hope this is just the first step. will the national governments and the european parliament finally realise the scale of the phenomenon? it's already late.
in writing. the text adopted today is a complete reversal of the work done in the libé committee, which had made it possible to significantly improve the european commission's proposal. this so-called compromise does not bring any change that would raise the level of protection for these people in the states that practice the most unacceptable policies. firstly, because of its limited scope: asylum seekers and persons intercepted at borders are excluded, although they represent a significant proportion of illegal immigrants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the latter could thus be extended to 18 months, as against the six months proposed by the pse. i am ashamed that our assembly has overwhelmingly supported the possibility of imprisoning for so long people whose only crime is to have sought better living conditions in our territories and who are often in a very vulnerable state. i myself voted against this text in good conscience. if common minimum rules are necessary, they must be established in the context of a responsible and humane approach to illegal immigration and in no case at the expense of forgetting our own fundamental rights and values.
in writing. the highly publicized 'return' directive, proposed by the brussels commission and falsely and wrongly stigmatized by the left and the far left as a directive of shame and anti-human rights, has just been voted to their great dismay by the european parliament. however, this directive, which is supposed to organise the return of illegal immigrants, is not repressive in any way. it does not criminalise immigrants who have entered europe illegally. better still, it gives them the choice between legalization or voluntary return, all of which come with rights and guarantees linked to the indispensable human rights. what about the right of peoples to protect themselves and not be overwhelmed by a global immigration? i didn't say anything. the fortress europe so much maligned in all the media in france and elsewhere does not exist. it is a fantasy to better pass legislation that is favorable to immigration and immigrants under the guise of repression. this directive is not good. it's like powder in the eyes. it has the merit of being a first step towards a less immigration-friendly policy. it should not make us forget that others are in preparation, such as the one concerning the 'european blue card' guaranteeing legal immigration for work, and that these have the avowed purpose of encouraging ever more immigration into europe.
in writing. today, the european parliament adopted the draft 'return' directive by a majority. the draft directive, which aims to establish common minimum standards for the treatment of illegal immigrants, was originally intended to respond to the often dramatic situation in the some 224 detention camps scattered across europe. this is a sensible move, since in some countries there are no rules or limits on the detention of irregular migrants. the socialists had made substantial progress in the vote in committee on the introduction of essential human rights guarantees, which were absent from the original proposal. they have been eliminated by the council and the epp rapporteur, who prefer the repressive approach in the hope of discouraging people who are already desperate. the result is a directive which endorses the criminalisation of migrants, their cramming into appalling conditions for endless periods and the separation of minors from their families, while the so-called guarantees of legal aid or recourse will in fact be applied voluntarily by the member states. it is simply unacceptable, contrary to the values which europe is proud to embody, and that is why i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. this third energy package dogmatically persists in the path of total separation between production activities and energy distribution networks. it aims to subject the entire energy sector to the sole laws of the market and competition between all. the same causes produce the same effects, and it will lead the union to a catastrophe of a magnitude greater than that experienced by california in the year 2000. this policy is bad for users, for employees in the sector, for smes/smis, for employment, for safety and for the environment. the market and the private sector are unable to meet the energy needs of the european people, the challenges of global warming and post-fossil energy. their objectives are to maximize shareholder returns, not to serve the public interest. we need a real energy europe, but it can only be built on the basis of cooperation. the energy sector must be driven by the coordinated public action of the member states and not by that of the financial markets. the union must act to ensure that energy is recognised as a global public good and not just another commodity.
in writing. i voted against this report which, as a common rule for the internal electricity market, proposes the dismantling of the legacy of the european incumbents. the separation of electricity generation and distribution activities will not, in my view, provide any additional guarantee in terms of efficiency, safety or accessibility of the network, especially in the current context of strong growth in overall electricity demand and high uncertainty about resources. the latter requires ever more structural investment to secure our supply and stimulate research and innovation, a prospect which seems largely incompatible with the logic of strong competition and short-term profitability which underlies the choice of full liberalisation of the sector. the third option, supported by the french socialists but unfortunately not adopted, appeared to be a much more reasonable solution since it would preserve the financial integrity of the major european energy groups while entrusting the organization of electricity distribution to independent regulators. i welcome, however, the progress made in this report in terms of consumer protection, and in particular the introduction of the principles of combating energy poverty and of transparency and accessibility of information for the end user.
in writing. clearly, the real objective of this third energy package is not security of supply, quality of service, affordability or the real choice of supplier by consumers, but the final dismantling of what remains of the old public monopolies in electricity. the commission and many members of parliament's insistence on imposing 'separation of assets', i.e. the forced surrender of ownership of their network to 'historic' operators such as edf, is unacceptable. the accusations against them - restricting access to the network for their competitors, deliberately limiting investment in infrastructure - are completely unproven. it is also not clear how entrusting the management of the network to a single operator other than the electricity supplier can guarantee the relevance and adequacy of investments, the non-abuse of a crucial position or the best congestion management. that is why, although we have always defended here the exclusive prerogatives of the states in the field of energy, a strategic area of too great importance to be left to the eurocrats, we will support as a lesser evil the solution of 'effective separation' proposed by france and germany, among others. and we will vote against texts whose philosophy we fundamentally disapprove of.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on measures against the increase in oil prices.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, mr piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, let us be imaginative on this subject. all the ideas, including that of the president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy, which aims to cap vat, are respectable and should be studied. i'd like to submit another one. oil is a fossil energy in limited quantities and its price increase is irreversible and sustainable. but what is causing the difficulties, beyond the rise itself, is the abrupt way in which the large fluctuations in the world price of a barrel of crude oil impact our economies. i wonder, therefore, whether the european union, while not concealing the realities of the rise itself, could not ensure price stability on an annual basis, allowing public sector budgets, in particular those of the member states for taxation and those of local authorities, companies in their contractual relations including the price of oil and, more generally, citizens for their family operating budget, to take better account of the major developments in energy without being subjected to the daily pressure of sudden changes in the price of crude oil linked to world prices, speculation and the euro/dollar exchange rate. it is in this context that i propose, commissioner, that we consider the creation of a community instrument whose purpose would be to guarantee the price of a barrel of crude oil at the usual budgetary rate of one year. this instrument could use financial techniques of buying/selling options on the world market and be useful in the fight against speculation. in 2005, when the price of a barrel was $50 i asked you for your opinion, mr piebalgs, and you replied that this was an interesting idea, but that the commission had no competence to regulate the price of crude oil, particularly because the oil market is global. i would like to emphasize that such a community instrument, which operates as a zero-sum game in the long term and requires virtually no funding, would deserve at least to be studied, not, i repeat, to combat the laws of the market which are imposed on us, but to regulate the brutality of their application and to ensure a better impact of the increases in the price of crude oil in the cost chain of the sectors concerned. the example of fishing, which we shall discuss shortly, is very significant in this respect.
madam president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, we are opening this debate today on the basis of a communication which is really a commission memorandum transformed into a communication in the face of the public's reaction to the reality of the situation our citizens are experiencing on the ground, day in and day out. at the g8 we discussed the issue of speculation in the oil markets. the reality of the situation we are in is well known to us if we are to get to the bottom of things, and claude turmes has said a word about it. the oil crisis we are struggling with and facing which our citizens are feeling dismayed is one of the elements, one of the signs of this second age of globalisation that we have entered, where the global imbalances in which we have settled, powerless, have led to a disruption of the system, which was manifested first in a financial crisis in the united states that spread at an incredible speed in our own markets and which was translated into a shift of the speculative bubble that plagued the real estate markets to the commodity market, and in particular the price of oil, but also food prices. at the same time, the balance between supply and demand in this specific market did the rest. in view of this situation, the european union very well anticipated the situation last year by adopting a strategy which i would call the four-twenty strategy in 2020: minus 20% energy consumption, plus 20% energy efficiency, plus 20% renewables. but in the end, we showed the same deficiency as always. when we implement the internal market, we forget that for the internal market to be acceptable, it must have a social dimension. when we want to implement a european market in services, we forget that we may have to take account of the reality of social rights in the member states, and when we want to provide the european union with a just long-term energy strategy, we forget that this has, in the language of economists, a transitional cost and that the answer to the question of which purchasing powers will be most affected is that it would be those of the lowest categories, those who are most helpless in the face of the rise in oil prices. there are now the categories that are the subject of much discussion, the professions that are most exposed in their daily work - fishermen, road hauliers - but behind them there are also all those modest households which, in their daily budget, are the first to be affected because for these households, the housing budget or the transport budget are immediately affected by the rise in the price of oil, in much greater proportions than in the pockets of the speculators who pocket the rent from the rise in the price of oil.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the council on the crisis in the fisheries sector due to the increase in the price of philippe morillon diesel fuel, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0063/2008 b6-0162/2008), and - oral question to the commission on the crisis in the fisheries sector due to the increase in the price of philippe morillon diesel fuel, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-0064/2008 b6-0163/2008).
author. - madam president, i am giving commissioner borg time to settle in. this oral question was initiated at the unanimous request of the groups in the committee which i have the honour to chair, and i am glad that it comes after this very rich debate which dealt with general questions. my father was born, madam president, commissioner, president-in-office, more than a century ago in a village near saint-malo, which i knew in my youth as a place teeming with life, fuelled mainly by agriculture and fishing. today, the village is dying of cancer, caused by the proliferation of dead cells in the secondary residences and the gradual disappearance of all activities that allowed it to live except during the six weeks of summer. this is not an isolated phenomenon, it is a phenomenon found practically on the whole of the european coast, which has led commissioner borg, to whom i pay tribute, to propose the implementation of this integrated coastal management, which should allow a restoration, a preservation, a resurrection of life on all our european coasts. although this decision has led to the transformation of the directorate-general for fisheries into a directorate-general for 'mare', it does not mean that the european union is determined to see the resources that our fishermen must continue to derive from the exploitation of the oceans disappear. why does the european union only implement two common policies, the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy? the answer to this question is simple: to enable our continent to continue to obtain its food supply from the exploitation of both the land and the coast. so this is where the impact of the huge increase in oil prices has consequences that could be catastrophic, particularly, of course, in the fisheries sector. the profession, already severely affected by the shrinking resources, is now threatened with extinction and this explains, without excusing them, the violent manifestations of despair to which some of its representatives have succumbed and continue to do so here and there. that is why i am pleased, commissioner, that your executive committee has just proposed a number of measures to provide immediate relief for the industries most at risk, in particular by allowing member states to derogate exceptionally and temporarily from the rules imposed for the implementation of the european fisheries fund in accordance with the arrangements which will be discussed, mr president-in-office of the council, in luxembourg on 24 june at the next meeting of the agriculture and fisheries ministers. let us not lose sight of the need for the european union - and for the planet - to be able to continue to draw from the oceans the resources needed to provide food. there is no point in preserving the survival of fish if there are no more fishermen to go and get them. this is a fact which, in my view, justifies the detailed proposals which concern not only the short term but the medium and long term, on which we are working together, commissioner, in the committee on fisheries and which will be further developed by all my colleagues and by the draft resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, as you have said, this structural crisis is deep and lasting. it is therefore a question of finding sustainable solutions, not just for the fisheries sector, but for all the sectors concerned. it must also be said that this crisis is the result of years of blindness to the dependence of fisheries on oil - and cheap oil - and to the forward flight towards what has been called the arms race, with ships that are more and more powerful, that go further and further and can bring back more and more fish. these are the questions we must also deal with. the problem of expensive diesel is inseparable from all the other issues affecting the fisheries sector - fisheries resource management, price formation, world trade, the fight against illegal fishing - and it is difficult to deal with this issue in isolation from the rest. the subsidies and aid proposed by the commission, which i believe are in the right direction, are acceptable, especially for our fellow citizens, only if they are conditional on a fundamental reorientation of fisheries policies and practices. we regret that the compromise resolution does not make possible aid and subsidies conditional on this reorientation and on the need to put an end to fleet overcapacity and to move towards better management of fisheries resources and the protection of marine ecosystems. it is the very condition for the economic and social viability of fisheries undertakings. finally, we want the member states to take full responsibility and to stop making demagoguery by promising money they do not have, without offering sustainable prospects for fisheries.
mr president, from all the fishing ports in the union, two demands are strongly expressed: diesel at a unified price at union level of 40 cents a litre and concerted management of quotas. these just demands are vital for small-scale fishing and its jobs. the rising oil price and the preservation of fisheries resources are real problems. the free market has proved incapable of dealing with the consequences of the rise in oil prices. oil companies, eager to make profits, respond by speculating on the growing demand for oil from emerging countries, hoping to break the bank. by reducing taxes which are only increasing and by taxing the enormous profits of the oil companies, we can easily meet the demands of fishermen without paying out subsidies, which are particularly random. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not treated as criminals by a commission which covers the real criminals of the sea, the flags of convenience and the industrial fishing trusts. no one is more committed to the preservation of fisheries resources than they are. the system must be completely reformed, with the commission working democratically with the fisheries professionals rather than imposing its dictatorship through the governance of its pseudo-experts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, relations with russia, as mr wojciechowski, the previous speaker, said, are extremely delicate and ambiguous. i understand the attitude, particularly of our colleagues in central and eastern europe and the baltic states, who have suffered greatly from russian domination through soviet domination, through a ruthless system of oppression of the peoples which has now fortunately disappeared and regressed. i believe that we must take this opportunity to establish more friendly relations with the great russian people, who are unquestionably a european people and who are today somewhat of a sentinel, because russia is facing the same problems as we are. it is facing problems of birthlessness, and the vast space that siberia represents could be very attractive to the 1.5 billion chinese who consider that part of this territory has been taken from them. i think that the misunderstandings which may exist and which may persist with russia and which we hope will be resolved at the summit on 14 november are also partly our responsibility. we have joined the american political cart, we have reintegrated - i speak for france - into the north atlantic treaty organization, nato, which was a response to the warsaw pact. the fact that the warsaw pact has disappeared, i think, can also legitimately arouse russia's suspicion of us and i would like to see these misunderstandings resolved bilaterally.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i also welcome your presence here this evening. it is a kind of baptism of fire for you and i particularly appreciate, as a frenchman, that on monday evening and again tonight you spoke french with talent. it's a real pleasure. i should also like to thank mr liberadzki for the discussions he has had in the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a directive on the transport of dangerous goods. as i have just said, parliament already voted on this draft directive in september 2007 and i am pleased that an agreement has been reached with the council and the commission and i consider that the debate on this text tonight is, in a way, a mere formality. but i would like to take this opportunity, since we are in a sense among ourselves, to stress that this text represents in my view an important step towards better regulation of the conditions for the transport of dangerous goods within our borders and that the question of the transport of goods, and in particular dangerous goods, is an important problem for our citizens and in relation to sustainable development. the current volume of dangerous goods transported in the union is 10% of all transported goods, which is very high. that's 110 billion tons per kilometer per year, 58 percent of it by road, which is huge, 25 percent by rail and 17 percent by inland waterways. this directive, which aims to modernise existing provisions, also has the merit, perhaps more importantly in these difficult times, of merging four directives into one legislative act. this is an obvious step towards greater transparency and it is very important that all europeans can read our decisions. finally, i am also pleased that the shipyard sector has been integrated into the directive. the transport by water must be given more consideration, since it is an environmentally friendly mode of transport and can also be one of the answers to our constant desire to rebalance transport modes in europe. here too, this merger into a single legislative act will make the rules applicable more readable and more transparent in the current context in which we want greater intermodality in transport. i welcome this progress, particularly for those involved in the transport sector, at a time when the work of europe is not always sufficiently explained and when, unfortunately, it is sometimes misunderstood by our fellow citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank our rapporteur for the discussions he has had for more than two years in the committee on transport and tourism in preparing this text to improve safety on europe's main roads. this is a major and almost constant concern of our parliament, which is often called upon to give its opinion on all these technical problems of vehicle safety standards, and once again, finally tonight, we can emphasize that this is a very concrete answer for our fellow europeans. these safety problems concern them and can speak to them in their daily lives and, indeed, if this legislative proposal aims to reduce the risk of accidents and to reduce the number of deaths and injuries by ensuring integrated safety in all phases of planning, design and operation of road infrastructure on the transeuropean transport network, then it must be considered with interest. i will support this initiative because, without imposing too strict procedures which would not take account of the economic and structural reality of each member state, this proposal for a directive provides clarity by organising a procedure for the assessment of any new construction, an audit procedure to allow the evolution of existing equipment, but also a risk management procedure to provide specific responses to targeted risks. i am not as optimistic as commissioner tajani, but i hope that the european commission's estimates of the effects of these measures will be in line with reality. if it is estimated that the introduction of these measures will reduce the number of injuries and deaths in the union by almost 7 000, i think that is a very good thing.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr aylward, for his excellent work in listening to the sheep and goat sector and the professionals and for the very comprehensive report he has put before us. the sheep and goat sector has been badly affected over the last ten years by successive crises, notably related to animal diseases, but mainly because of the decoupling of aid, which causes a very significant decrease in sheep herds due to the abandonment of farmers' activities. this sector is facing real difficulties and requires special attention from us, because it produces high-quality meat or milk and is also a tool for maintenance and land use planning, in particular to reduce the risk of fire or natural disasters. i support the proposals of our rapporteur and the committee on agriculture and rural development on measures to support production and promote products. it seems to me important, in view of the fact that imports from outside the community already account for almost a quarter of european production, to develop a european logo in addition to the indications of local and national origin. i also believe that electronic identification of the herd will only be possible on the date decided by the european institutions if the european union has previously mobilised the necessary funds, because the profession, in view of the great difficulties it is currently facing, will not be able to do so. the setting up of a monitoring team seems to me very timely, unlike my predecessor, but i believe it should include representatives of the professional organisations in order to take account as closely as possible of developments on the ground. finally, i would remind you that action is urgently needed, and that action must be taken as early as next year if we are to save this sector, because i fear that the use of article 69 - now article 68 - in the context of the health check, for sectors in crisis, will be too late.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing with a serious subject, the slow disappearance of european sheep and shepherds. the world has one billion sheep, europe has only 97 million, which is less than 10%, and it's worse for sheep, we have only 67 million. it is true that britain can be deluded with 15 million heads, spain with 16 million, or president parish's ireland, self-sufficient at 333%. but france, for example, has seen its herd increase from almost 13 million 25 years ago to 8 million today, and to 5 million in 2015 alone. in france, one out of every two pieces of lamb we eat comes from abroad. worse, it's the nursing sheep that are disappearing. the causes are well known: the explosion in food costs, the decline in consumption, the difficult pastoral life, catarrhal fever, the fall in prices, the decoupling, but first and foremost, the duty-free importation of sheep from new zealand. 227 000 tonnes of sheep arrive from new zealand every year, twice the french production. it's not the wolves that eat the sheep, it's the new zealand sheep that eat the european sheep. a century and a half ago, new zealand had a million sheep. today, it has 40 million. in the same period, france's population has fallen from 30 million to 8 million. so what do you do? we need a major european sheep plan, a will with a premium of 15 euros per suckling ewe, an oat premium of 125% of the bovine premium, credits for the modernisation of buildings, local slaughterhouses, a european livestock risk insurance fund, an assistance plan and, why not, erasmus grants for young shepherds who could go to spain, italy, to learn their trade. i thank you, mr president. sheep is civilization!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, mrs zita gurmai, on the successful completion of this report on the 'smart vehicle' initiative. in the concept of the development of society, we know that mobility brings wealth, growth and, consequently, a capacity to assume the solidarity of territories and people. sustainable development requires combining the different modes of transport to achieve better fluidity in our cities and countryside. far from being built around the car as in the past, the motor vehicle remains an essential vehicle for the intelligent and sustainable mobility we wish for. this is achieved through the concept of intelligent and sustainable vehicles, based on a triptych: a safer vehicle, a cleaner vehicle, a smarter vehicle. beyond this declaration of principle, europe must accompany this action in practice by means of directives and policies which, in the long run, will integrate all electronic systems, whether nomadic or not, allowing process control and vehicle controls in compliance with greater safety, greater cleanliness in terms of reducing co2 and particulate emissions. in this spirit, commissioner, we must encourage car manufacturers to think about integrating all these electronic devices into the design of new vehicles, not only for greater efficiency and driving comfort, but also, by this volume, to reduce costs, manufacture and installation. if we want to be part of sustainable mobility, we must also widen the scope of these policies. the research and innovation axes must make it possible to incorporate this research in order to eventually create the intelligent road, enhancing safety, managing energy expenditure, using dialogue between vehicles, and making traffic more fluid. the european union wishes to promote the knowledge society and knowledge and sustainable development. these initiatives must be fully integrated into this framework. i would like to conclude by reiterating the urgent need for real ambition, setting ambitious targets and creating the conditions for growth and progress in europe. in line with the report by our colleague, mr gurmai, the european parliament is convinced that the commission, mr commissioner, will meet these expectations and requirements by setting a new frontier for the european intelligent vehicle and finally providing the financial means for this ambition.
in writing. i welcome the commission's initiative to finally produce a document on enhancing the coherence, effectiveness and visibility of the eu's response to natural and man-made disasters. i regret, however, that this is still not a genuine, concrete proposal that could boost europe's civil protection capabilities, including prevention and rapid reaction, in the event of major crises occurring inside or outside the union. i thank the members of the european parliament for their support for my amendment to exploit 'the combined expertise in the geographical location of the outermost regions (ors) and the overseas countries and territories (octs) '. these overseas communities have made europe present off the coast of africa (canary islands, madeira), in the indian ocean (reunion), close to the american continent (guyana, guadeloupe, martinique, azores) and in the octs of the pacific (french polynesia, new caledonia). europe's overseas territories are poised to become focal points for the pre-positioning of essential products and logistics. the project would facilitate the deployment of european human and material resources in the event of emergency intervention outside the union.
in writing. the dramatic increase in the price of diesel fuel, 300% since 2003, is having a major impact on the fisheries sector. the continuing worsening of the crisis has put many fisheries undertakings in a very fragile financial situation. the fisheries sector is a particularly important pillar of the economic and social development of the outermost regions. in addition, the increase in fuel prices is all the more marked because of their remote geographical location. this is unacceptable. it is the duty of the european union to find a compromise. the european parliament has just sent a strong signal to fishermen. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these proposals will be discussed by the council of european fisheries ministers on 23 and 24 june. the european union has no choice but to restore confidence with the fishing fleet, thus closing the abysmal gap that has recently been revealed.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma.
member of the commission. − mr president, mrs ferrero-waldner is unfortunately not here today, so i shall – on her behalf – share with you a few remarks about the situation in burma/myanmar. the european parliament’s motion for a resolution focuses on the political situation and in particular on the continued detention of political prisoners. before commenting on this issue, i would like to inform you about the commission’s activities in response to the cyclone which devastated the delta of the ayeryawaddy river six weeks ago. the commission’s response to the cyclone was quick and substantial: we have approved eur 17 million in humanitarian aid, including eur 5 million in food aid. we have also activated the civil protection mechanism – the cooperation with the eu member states having joined the mechanism has worked very well. we cover water purification, boat transport, primary health care and other issues of importance in the post-disaster context. the humanitarian emergency is not over. so far, approximately half of the survivors reached, that is, one million, are still in desperate need. accessing the disaster-hit areas and distribution of aid is not without difficulties. this has as much to do with the size of the disaster as with the bureaucracy. our field workers in myanmar report gradually better cooperation from authorities. our own humanitarian activities continue with reasonable efficiency. we recognise that the international ngos are in a more difficult situation, as regards access to the stricken areas. in the mean time, the asean countries have taken the lead in coordinating external assistance. they are a member of the so-called ‘tripartite mechanism’, which comprises the asean countries, the government of burma/myanmar, and the united nations. the government has issued new ‘guidelines’ for external aid. we have no evidence yet whether they are being used to narrow the space for aid delivery. for us, the cyclone and its terrible consequences are a purely humanitarian issue. we defend the concept of ‘needs-based’ humanitarian relief. on the political situation in burma/myanmar, the government seems committed to proceed with its so-called ‘road map to democracy’. we read this road map as a tightly controlled, slow transition towards a civilian government where the military still plays a dominant role. the government seems committed to deliver, at its own pace and without regard to views and comments from outside. realistically, there is hardly an alternative. national reconciliation would require an inclusive dialogue. such dialogue cannot take place with political stakeholders in jail or under house arrest. this is why we continue to push for the release of all political prisoners. my colleague, mrs ferrero-waldner, has said publicly that the government has missed a chance to send a signal of reconciliation at a moment of national distress when the government again extended the house arrest of aung san suu kyi. the people of burma/myanmar would deserve a system of government which focuses on economic and social development, and on the participation of the electorate in the political process. for europe, expressing our indignation and isolating the country is clearly not an adequate response. the people of burma/myanmar shall not pay the price of a political stalemate. they deserve better. in conclusion, i wish to highlight our commitment to follow closely the situation in burma/myanmar. this includes continuing to push for a release of all political prisoners, and for an inclusive dialogue, including legal political parties and ethnic groups. we continue a balanced approach. we are not up to confrontation for the sake of confrontation. our ultimate goal remains to help a peaceful transition to a legitimate, civilian government. this is why we are fully supportive of the good offices of the un secretary general and his special advisor for myanmar. the interest of the burmese people is best served with a balanced policy, including substantial assistance. the commission has carefully chosen the areas of assistance to help the most vulnerable class of society. we have already significantly increased funding and hope that – in a coordinated effort with other donors – the overall funding level could reach the equivalent of what is spent per capita in comparable countries, like laos and cambodia. the people of myanmar deserve a better future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on somalia.
member of the commission. − mr president, unfortunately my colleague louis michel is not here today, so on his behalf i wish to share with you some remarks about this issue in somalia. firstly, i would like to share your concern about the continuing conflict and political instability in somalia. somalia remains a context where fundamental rights and respect for basic human dignity continue to be shunned by armed entities perpetrating systematic and widespread attacks against civilians. seventeen years of statelessness have seen loss of civilian life, mass displacements and destruction of physical infrastructures. one third of the population, corresponding to 2.6 million people, depends on humanitarian aid today. the european union, together with other key international actors, is committed to helping at this critical juncture. at the political level, the eu will continue to provide its full support to the un special representative of the secretary general in his efforts to coordinate the action of the international community and to facilitate inter-somali political dialogue. we are now examining – together with other donors – the appropriate ways and means to better assist somalis to effectively implement the djibouti agreement reached on 9 june. this agreement offers fresh hope for long-term peace and stability to the people of somalia. at humanitarian level, the eu is mainly focusing on supporting basic sectors such as health, nutrition, food assistance, shelter and non-food relief items, water and sanitation, as part of a range of activities particularly targeting central and southern areas of the country that have been badly affected by civilian strife and extreme natural hazards. in 2007 our humanitarian aid department managed to provide eur 18 million in humanitarian assistance. in response to the worsening humanitarian situation and to the increase in food prices, the level of assistance should reach a total of eur 27 million for this year. at the development level, the eu is already the main aid donor for somalia, providing medium- to long-term support for establishing a peaceful and self-sustainable society. the eu country strategy for somalia allocates more than eur 212 million for the period 2008-2013, under the 10th european development fund. one third of this programme will be spent on education, which is relevant to respect for human rights. the critical goal is to encourage reconciliation, democracy and the development of governance structures at all levels. however, without peace and security it is not possible to engage effectively in longer-term development. priority is therefore given to promoting a peaceful and secure environment in which human rights are respected and democratic processes and institutions can develop. commissioner michel met with the somali president, just a few days ago, on the margin of the igad summit in addis ababa. on that occasion, president yusuf made a strong appeal for international assistance to support a better, secure environment for people living in somalia. we gave a commitment to provide strong support for the somali government to this end. the european commission is already financing the training of somali police forces through the un, and funds are also being contributed to the costs of the amisom operation. ultimately the political process of reconciliation and stabilisation will also depend on the engagement and support of key regional players, namely ethiopia and eritrea, which have used the somali theatre for a ‘proxy war’. in this respect the withdrawal of ethiopian troops from somalia is a key element for any political breakthrough. commissioner michel, who met prime minister meles of ethiopia and president isaias of eritrea last weekend, urged them to support the djibouti process, which, although far from being perfect, offered a real if not the only opportunity to bring together the different somali actors. despite the difficult circumstances, the commission will continue its programme of aid to somalia, which has been designed with member states, in order to alleviate the suffering of the somali population and to establish the ground for a peaceful society. some questions were raised about piracy and i would add that, although it is not competent for the deployment of naval forces as foreseen by unsc resolution 1816, the commission has set up, together with the council, a working group composed of the relevant directorates-general – namely the energy and transport dg, the maritime affairs and fisheries dg, the development dg and europeaid – to study the best way to implement the un resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran.
member of the commission. − mr president, my colleague benita ferrero-waldner is unfortunately not here today, so on her behalf i thank you for the opportunity to address the issue of juvenile executions in iran. the commission shares your deep concern about this harrowing question. while, as you know, the commission lacks a representation in tehran, it follows the human rights situation very closely and acts in close concertation with the eu member states’ embassies represented there. it is important to note that the european parliament, the council of the european union and the commission have taken a coherent and consistent line. the seriousness of our concerns has been clearly stated through the three statements published by the eu presidency over the past two weeks: on 4 and 10 june, over the cases of mr fadaei, mr shojaee and mr jazee, all facing imminent executions for crimes committed when they were minors; and on 13 june, on the execution of mohammad hassanzadeh. the commission fully supports the principle and the content of these statements: there can be no justification for the use of the death penalty by the iranian authorities in the case of juvenile offenders. this explicitly runs counter to the legally binding provisions of international law, which iran has ratified, notably the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention on the rights of the child. the fact that we have had to issue so many statements at such a rapid pace obviously reflects the growing number of executions in iran, including of minors. the moratorium decreed by iran’s chief judiciary, ayatollah shahroudi, on youth executions is blatantly violated by his own judges. but, unfortunately, the tone and the frequency of our statements on iran also reflect the fact that our dialogue and démarches on human rights in general and on the issue of juvenile executions in particular have not been effective. the iranian authorities increasingly turn a deaf ear to our calls for compliance with international human rights law and we have therefore no choice but to resort to the so-called ‘megaphone diplomacy’ via public statements that tehran claims to abhor and reject. iran must face up to its own responsibilities. for its part, following the execution of mr hassanzadeh, the commission has explicitly told the iranian authorities that such an act could only cast a shadow over’s iran’s international reputation and our relationship. without a concrete improvement of the human rights situation, our common objective of developing substantively the relationship between the european union and the islamic republic of iran is hindered. i trust that the european parliament and all eu partners will agree to this line and act accordingly. therefore, i solemnly reiterate our call to the authorities of the islamic republic of iran to abide by the international conventions to which it is party and spare the life of all minors still on death row.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the events taking place today in tunisia, in the gafsa mining area. for several weeks, social mobilizations have been organized against poverty in this rich basin, since it contains a lot of phosphates. but the profits do not benefit - it is the case to say it - the local population, and today we are witnessing an extremely serious police and military repression, with harassment, imprisonments, arrests, a closure of the city, especially redeyef. i ask the eu's head of mission, through you, because i believe that the european parliament's intervention is necessary, that this matter be discussed with the tunisian authorities, that the guidelines on the protection of human rights defenders - trade unionists are in prison, and we have several testimonies of torture - also be respected, that the heads of mission attend the trials, meet the families and hold the tunisian authorities to account for the repression there.
mr president, i too am pleased to welcome the french presidency, with minister jouyet here. it is true that it is an exception to have the presidency present on monday, even when these questions are being discussed. i shall be speaking to parliament today about the deployment of the police force, the crs. when i arrived earlier, i passed two crs checkpoints. i wondered what could be threatening parliament that such an armada of crss would be deployed. i had to decline my identity twice; i was asked what i was going to do to the european parliament. so, in fact, i was really very surprised because i, mr minister, do not feel threatened here and, on the contrary, i felt oppressed behind these barriers. i would like to remind you, however, that the encirclement of the house of the european people by crs is a strange way of starting the french presidency and i would like to say that we want this house to remain a house of the peoples open to the citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week parliament is deciding on the political priorities of the budget in a difficult situation, both internally and externally. we have many challenges to face, and the financial perspective is very limited. i therefore particularly welcome the courageous and political work of our rapporteur, jutta haug. it has succeeded in anticipating the steps of the budgetary procedure so that we can make clear the direction of our institution. this new procedure provides greater clarity for the citizen and therefore democracy. the priorities of the parliamentary committees and political groups were thus understood and discussed. unfortunately, i must once again deplore the council's lack of ambition and the systematic nature of its cuts in the commission's gnp. we find that his ambition is to save money on administrative expenses. it is not a question of identifying a political priority, but of making technical savings which sometimes double the margin in certain headings, as göran färm said about heading 1a. i also cannot explain the linear cuts in payments: minus one billion euros compared to the gnp. as regards heading 2, the statement is clear. in 2008, we left an unused margin of over 3 billion euros. for the 2009 budget, the commission proposes a margin of more than 2 billion, and the council says better by increasing this margin to 2.4 billion. however, there is a need for rural development, energy, immigration, global warming and international solidarity. at a time when the question of food sovereignty is becoming more and more pressing, when it is becoming clear that if nothing is done, food will become a luxury in europe, the council is choosing to cut agricultural expenditure. so even though you didn't touch the lines that are part of our classic priority, you forgot to increase all the ones you make promises on. similarly, in the aftermath of the failed irish referendum and two years after the french and dutch referendums, is it not clear that communication and information to citizens are important activities requiring considerable investment? by denying this essential need for information, communication and listening of the citizens, we reap the result of this autism through every consultation and survey. finally, i shall never understand the council's attitude to heading 4. the evidence is clear, consistent. this section is dramatically underfunded, and therefore we should forbid promises that are never kept. how can we have the ambition to solve problems linked to the development of multilateral relations, the problems of world hunger or the consolidation of democracy and not propose any increase? you're even proposing cuts on policies that work. we have only one thing left to do in a few weeks: to resume both the monitoring and the writing of each budget line, but also to study all the possibilities for finding a budgetary framework which will allow the union to have a realistic and solidary budget for 2009.
for the greens/efa group madam president, our colleague, mr jutta, is right to alert the commission to the possible improvements in his proposal when he talks about transparency of administrative expenditure, particularly for the agencies, better financial programming or better evaluation of human resources. i will focus on a paragraph in the haug report which points to the lack of correlation between the needs to combat climate change and the budget of the european union. our budget is roughly 1% of the continental gdp, which is paltry compared to the 20% of gdp that the united states commits at the federal level. the commission tells us that it takes 10% of this small percentage for climate change, i.e. 0.1% of gdp. the united nations framework convention on climate change, the stern report, the undp, the world bank, all tell us that to really counteract these effects, we would need to mobilize between 0.6 and 1.6% of gdp. the stern report even talks about 2% of gdp. the commission is therefore between 500 and 2 000% below what all these international reports tell us. another interesting figure is that to help developing countries, the un convention on climate change - again - tells us that it would take about 100 billion dollars a year to finance all these projects. the commission tells us that it is interesting, that it is going to make a global alliance for climate change and that it is giving it 20 million euros a year for three years. so there is a huge gap between the needs and the resources. and when i say pit, it's actually a pit so abysmal that you could sequester all the carbon in the atmosphere. i am well aware that the commission has little room for manoeuvre: expenditure is fixed, the appropriations per programme are fixed, the measures to be financed per programme and the conditions are fixed and, moreover, the council has no desire to move, or worse, to change the size of expenditure. but thankfully the commission still has a right of initiative, so let it use it! we are below the ceilings of the financial perspective, catherine said. we have at least 2 billion in margin. if we do not use the 2 billion in the margin, it is not just a nice budgetary technical error, it is not helping a european project in peril, not helping a planet in peril. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would first of all like to express my appreciation to mrs jutta haug, who has passionately presented a comprehensive, demanding and at the same time very courageous budget report, which was voted unanimously at cobu and which aims to specify the requirements of our parliament for transparency and clarity in the preparation of the 2009 budget. of course, he points to the major demands of parliament, the policies related to competitiveness, regional policies, research and development policies, support for agriculture, food security, and then, to a lesser extent, the requirements concerning the union's external and neighbourhood policy, as has already been emphasized. but in the short time i have, i would like to stress, beyond these structural policies, the importance of avoiding, more than ever, sacrificing appropriations under subheading 3b. in the current context of citizens' mistrust of the union, of europe's difficulty in making the european peoples dream, it seems to me essential that through policies of culture, youth and health, we can forge a genuine european citizenship. and i regret with jutta haug that it is the activities which are important for the readability of what europe is doing for its citizens that are most weakly increased. finally, i would like to ask the council and its presidency, whose absence at this important moment in the debate i regret, to avoid, as they have done in previous years, making a dry decision at the first reading of the gsp. this requires that our institutions cooperate closely and that the european parliament be fully understood in its role of european co-decision-maker, but above all as the representative of the citizens, through the major political act of adopting the budget.
madam president, in the wake of the irish referendum, the need for the union to listen more closely to its citizens and to inform them more fully about the issues that affect them on a daily basis is even more urgent, and even more so less than a year before the european elections, if we are to arouse the interest of voters in the union's issues and to ensure that a minimum of consensus develops on its aims and policies. it is in this difficult context that the 2009 budget is being drafted, on which our colleague jutta haug has done a remarkable job with his new approach to the big questions and his consultation with everyone. i would like to mention in particular the articles in his report on citizenship and information, which will have to meet many challenges in 2009 and require significant resources in a heading with a small margin, which we regret. information is an essential tool of democracy. citizens, wherever they live, whether in an old member state or in a new one, need to be better informed about the realities of the union and, in particular, its budget. this requires clear, relevant and concerted messages from the main institutions. in this respect, the demand to establish a kind of 'european union' brand that is identifiable throughout europe and speaks to everyone seems to me an important element in order to make citizens more involved in the european project.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the dispute between airbus and boeing before the wto is nothing but a very bad joke. the americans are trying by all means to oppose the superiority of airbus, and they do not hesitate to use justice as an instrument. but while airbus has benefited from repayable advances, boeing is suffering from the financial burden of various states, and especially from the enormous funds for military research. that's how the dreamliner became the most heavily subsidized airplane in the world. but the real act of unfair competition in this case is the weak dollar. and unfortunately the us has a powerful accomplice in this matter with the european central bank. the real question is therefore whether or not airbus will continue to design and produce its aircraft in the euro area. the answer is yes, and that means a european central bank for industrial employment, not for the refinancing of the commercial banks' lost funds. the answer is yes, and that means creating a european public sovereign wealth fund to replace the private shareholders of eads who have shown themselves incapable of developing a relevant industrial strategy, preferring to pay their dividends. replacing the a320 with a plane that saves 20% in kerosene will only be possible with an investment that the shareholders refuse. europe needs a strong, 100% public eads group if it is to have an industrial policy that meets the needs of clean and energy-efficient air transport.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are about to vote on makes a number of recommendations to the commission, recalling that the commission is defending, on behalf of the union, the interests of the member states and the european civil aircraft industry. in a context where the us congress has already supported boeing on many occasions, and knowing that the challenge to the tanker contract is shaking the position of the european aircraft manufacturer, unwavering support from the european union as a whole - member states, commission and parliament - is more necessary than ever. we know that. eads has been the target of all the attacks. both its seriousness and its reliability have been questioned. the commission must now reiterate two things: firstly, that boeing's action in the context of the tender for the refuelling stations must in no way call into question the quality of the eads/northrop grumman tandem proposal, since only the selection procedure was attacked by boeing. a u.s. air force reversal of its decision would be unacceptable. the commission must make its position clear. the commission must also point out that the attacks on airbus at the wto are unjustified. not only is the system of repayable advances not open to challenge, since they are by definition repaid, but the us position is all the more surprising as us aid is incompatible with wto rules and with those of the agreements binding europe and the us. moreover, in order to avoid a fruitless confrontation which would harm the industrial interests of the parties concerned and the eu-us relationship which we must improve, we must consider that only a negotiated solution is promising, and that this solution requires a first step, without any prior warning, in order to show that the two parties present are able to demonstrate their goodwill. a final question: does the new situation influence the decision that may be taken in the context of the settlement of this conflict?
, in writing. after the debate we had on this issue of boeing's complaint against airbus before the wto, and in response to the us senate resolution on the same subject, i am pleased that we are today defending a resolution ensuring the european parliament's support for airbus. the complaint by boeing against airbus seems to be more about commercial imperatives than genuine competition problems. it was only when airbus overtook boeing in aircraft orders that boeing filed a complaint with the wto. in addition, the us aircraft manufacturer has not complied with the 1992 bilateral agreement since it has received illegal subsidies under that agreement. it is true that airbus has also received subsidies, but these are repayable advances made within the legal framework, and these advances have not only been repaid in full, but airbus has even repaid 40% more than what the union governments had lent it. i support the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. while calling for a fair and prompt solution to the conflict, the european parliament must publicly state its support for airbus.
mr president, at a time when a food scandal is still brewing in some member states of the european union, even if it is undoubtedly due to a large-scale fraud, one can suspect that the consumer is questioning and expressing doubts about anything that may appear to be 'artificial'. the europe that protects is the europe that ensures consumer safety and the protection of public health. food additives, flavourings and enzymes play an important role in the manufacture of our food, which is why we needed clear, harmonised rules on the safety, authorisation and marketing of these substances, in order to protect consumers and, most importantly, to build public confidence in food produced with these substances. it is therefore important that the rules are based on sound scientific advice. the commission also had to fill the legal vacuum at european level regarding enzymes that have long been used, for example, in the manufacture of bread and dairy products. i therefore welcome the introduction of additional guarantees to ensure transparency through clearer and more understandable labelling. this is particularly important when products are also called 'natural'. a key aspect of the draft legislation is the introduction of a common, single procedure for the authorization of food additives, flavourings and enzymes, with a safety assessment by the european food safety authority for all these flavourings, enzymes and additives which are, of course, increasingly used in the agri-food industry. of course, our parliament will be very vigilant in monitoring these substances. these additives must not in any way endanger or mislead consumers' health, because it is essential to guarantee consumer protection and food safety by preserving innovation and the competitiveness of the agri-food industry.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the successful conclusion of this package of proposals and hope that parliament will support the compromise proposal tomorrow. more importantly, this package will strengthen consumer protection and food safety. i particularly note some of the difficult issues which have been discussed and appreciate the desire to find a compromise. in this respect i would like to express once again my thanks to the three rapporteurs for their hard work and for the very good cooperation that they had with the commission in order to reach this compromise proposal. in particular, i would like to thank mrs westlund for her efforts in relation to the colourings. she knows very well that the commission supported her proposals. we have reached a compromise proposal, but i assure you we will not remain complacent. we have already asked the efsa to re-evaluate all their authorised additives, and if the efsa’s opinion indicates that direction we will not be hesitant in applying new rules regarding these additives. i would like to say this in general as well because, as i said, the efsa re-evaluates all the substances. if at any time for any substance the position of the efsa indicates that there is any risk to human health, we will not hesitate in making use of our prerogative and push for an amendment. there was a question regarding enzymes and the gm food and feed regulation. if an enzyme is extracted from a genetically-modified organism which is covered by regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed, its gm origin will be indicated on the label. however, the scope of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 excludes food, including enzymes produced by fermentation using genetically-modified micro-organisms. the purpose of this proposal is to catch these enzymes for the safety assessment authorisation, but not for specific gm labelling. mention was made regarding the period of nine months given to the commission to make its risk management. the proposal provides for nine months for the commission to present a proposal to the standing committee for an opinion. this is the maximum time proposed and of course in many cases proposals for updating the list will be presented in a shorter time. however, there are cases, notably for food additives, where nine months will be necessary for the commission to consult member states and all relevant stakeholders on various matters. this can only be achieved if adequate time is available for the stakeholders to respond, so i think that a maximum of nine months is not an exaggerated period. i would like to end by thanking you once again for your cooperation and i look forward to the adoption of the proposal at tomorrow’s sitting.
mr president, 300 food additives, 2600 natural or artificial flavourings, plus traditional enzymes or diastases, plus azo dyes, that is what the agri-food industry uses when it calls for harmonization of legislation. and since we are talking about goose, duck, canned truffle or snail jam, it is understandable that there are a dozen texts, plus the four regulations proposed for a common authorization procedure with lists of products. it is true that these additives increase the risk of allergies, sometimes serious, but perhaps there is an abuse of the precautionary principle, because in 2008, the year of the global food crisis, when, mr president, italy is offering us dioxin-enriched mozzarella, all for a turnover of 10 million euros, i do not really believe that the 15 million unemployed in europe are particularly concerned about enzymes and flavourings, but it is the whole humour of the european union to deal with the infinitely small in an infinitely large world.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, let's face it this time. the history of european construction, its dominant ideological currents, the attitudes inherited from half a century of close cooperation within the commission, the council and the parliament, all lead to a kind of christian-democratic, social-democratic condominium within the european institutions. in this case, i'm not making a judgment, i'm just seeing the obvious. in this context, the qualified majorities required for the adoption of any legislative text in codecision in our assembly mean that the two main groups must constantly seek consensus, which further reinforces the marginalisation of the expression of differences and disagreements. the question is therefore simple: do we want to add to this tendency to avoid contradictions, this time by tightening the conditions for the constitution of a group, precisely on the eve of elections which will see the number of members per country decrease, which will again penalise primarily minority groups, all the more so in the sparsely populated countries? what credibility would then be left to the good faith professions of pluralism? the quality of democratic debate will not be improved by risking an increase in the number of undifferentiated non-registered voters. that is why my group is unanimously in favour of maintaining the present rules on the formation of groups, even if we differ in our views on the refusal of the two large groups to accede to our request as to the course to be followed: to take note of the disagreement or to accept a compromise. a majority of my group has finally voted in favour of the compromise - i am in favour of it - with the sole aim of being of practical help in maintaining a genuine pluralistic expression in this parliament, but with full respect for the position of my colleagues who have a different opinion, because our principles are the same. they have a name: democracy.
mr president, there is a single market, there is a single currency, it would be quite normal to have a single group, which would be much more efficient. there would be only one speaker and it would be easier to share things. mr corbett proposes to raise the threshold to 30. it seems very dangerous to me because the irish, the french, the dutch are capable of sending 31, and then we would be in trouble. so i think we should have a floating threshold. we'll leave it at 30, but at the discretion of the president, we can raise it to 35-40, if the members who want to join are not quite normal. but there is a technique that was practiced under the fourth republic, which was called the invalidations. that is to say, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the majority decided whether to retain the mandate of a particular member or to invalidate it. that's a perfect technique. mr. corbett could be charged, for example, with invalidating all persons who do not think as he does. we could also provide modulation. those who do not think like mr corbett would pay their treatment to mr corbett or mr corbett's group. finally, it doesn't matter, the irish have shown you, adopt the rules you want, it's not happening here anymore, mr corbett.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a compromise which has been negotiated and which allows aviation activities to be included in emissions trading. this is a good thing, because we are all in favour of the european commitment to climate change, and we are all in favour of reducing co2 emissions, but not at any price. so we need an international agreement and the icao must absolutely play its part. the european union must have a say in the discussions within the icao in order to achieve a realistic approach. we are always advocating a more competitive europe; the commission has also taken the view that the european union should not shoot itself in the foot and therefore absolutely include airlines from third countries. however, we must be careful not to damage our low-cost airlines or even our large ones, which may no longer be able to exploit certain markets that are too expensive. the consumer is the one who will ultimately be penalised and may come to regard air travel as a luxury. we have therefore reached a compromise which is essential for the discussion in poznań at the end of 2008 and, of course, for our commitment in copenhagen in 2009. but there is one point that is important. this is the revenue that will be generated by the auctions. the european parliament will be very vigilant about the use of these revenues, which must be used for clean transport, which must be used for research and development in this field, but which must above all not be used for other purposes, otherwise the effects will be particularly devastating and risk hindering the achievement of an international agreement. efforts will therefore have to be made to strengthen the fight against co2 emissions by ensuring the simultaneous implementation of the other policy strands: the technology and the single sky strands.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished polish colleague, mr jacek saryusz-wolski, which proposes to approve, at first reading by the co-decision procedure, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the 2006 regulation laying down general provisions establishing a european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. in view of the financing needs, it became important to clarify the existing provisions on community funds managed by financial intermediaries, as the current text is ambiguous as regards the possibility of continuing the reinvestment of these funds. it also seems logical to allow the european investment bank (eib) to reinvest, under the euro-mediterranean investment and partnership facility (emipf), funds from the repayment of previous operations. since the previous regulations did not provide for the possibility of reinvesting the funds, the 'reimbursements' are paid back to the community budget. under the proposed amendment, the eib may be authorised to reinvest these funds under femip until the commission decides to close the operation.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my polish colleague dariusz rosati, i voted for the legislative resolution amending, following the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council directive amending various provisions of directive 2006/112/ec of 28 november 2006 on the common system of value added tax. article 171 of the ec treaty allows the community to set up joint undertakings or any other structure necessary for the proper execution of community research, development and demonstration programmes and it is very likely that this will be used more and more in the future. it was therefore logical to define an appropriate tax framework for such companies by equating them with international organisations. in addition, like other new member states, bulgaria and romania were authorised, in the context of their accession, to apply derogating measures as regards the tax exemption for small and medium-sized enterprises and the vat regime applicable to international passenger transport. those derogations should therefore be incorporated into the vat directive for reasons of transparency and consistency.
in writing. i supported the report by peter liese on the inclusion of aviation in the ets because i believe that the compromise reached between parliament and the council is balanced and realistic. the need for rapid and effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular the impact of transport on global warming, is now clear. however, for this legislation to be successful, it was essential to reconcile the environmental objective with that of citizen mobility. the effort required of air transport must be sufficient not to undermine the reductions achieved by other sectors, but balanced so as not to penalise the growth of the air transport sector. the legislation we have adopted meets these requirements and i am pleased about that.
in writing. i regret that the outermost regions (ors) were not totally exempted from the inclusion of civil aviation in the ets, whereas their remoteness from the european continent largely justified this. however, through persistent efforts, i am glad that progress has been made. the negotiated agreement thus provides for particular consideration to be given to ways of mitigating or even eliminating the access and competitiveness problems facing the outermost regions. the commission has also decided to extend the derogation to intra-upe flights, which will not be affected. i am glad that the urbs are included in the review clause to assess the impact of the ets on air transport. i am particularly grateful to the european parliament for having listened to my request from the outset for differentiated account to be taken of the rup, a position which was later taken up by the member states. i would also like to welcome the unwavering support of jacques barrot, the former european commissioner responsible for transport. finally, i regret that the final agreement did not include proposals favourable to the outermost regions, which would have made it possible, in particular, to use the funds from the auctioning of quotas to eliminate the difficulties specific to the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my british colleague, mr richard corbett, on the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure concerning the proceedings of the plenary and own-initiative reports. i share the concern expressed in this report to simplify, lighten and speed up parliamentary work. however, it is appropriate to leave members free to put written questions to the committee and to the council, even though i agree that abuses should be limited. i welcome the role given to members who will be able to speak more in the sitting. the idea that 40 members can make a counter-resolution alongside the rights of the political groups also seems to me to be a democratic advance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague jutta haug on initial reflections on the preliminary draft budget (bdp) 2009 and on the conciliation mandate, which sets out a framework for reflection on the structure of the future eu budget. the gbs stands at eur 134.395 billion in commitment appropriations, up by 3.1 percentage points on 2008, i.e. 1.04% of gni, and at eur 116.7 billion in payment appropriations, with a margin of eur 2.6 billion in commitments and eur 7.4 billion in payments. in view of the need for a europe of results, i cannot explain the weakness of payment appropriations. in addition to the priorities, it will be necessary to ensure that cohesion policy, the financing of european policy in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and external action are appropriately funded. finally, we must not forget the major european infrastructures (transport, energy, space, water, new technologies, health, etc.) which are regularly underfunded, even though they constitute the backbone of the european territory's competitiveness in the economic and social competition in which the territories are engaged in the world.
in writing. the good results of the recent paris donor conference show that the eu and the international community are looking to afghanistan. the report, which comes at a pivotal moment for the future of the country, stresses the challenges facing the european union in contributing effectively to the stabilisation of the country. it underlines the reconstruction efforts already undertaken to strengthen institutions and improve living conditions. as such, the net decline in infant mortality and the increase in schooling are encouraging signs. success in afghanistan will come through better coordination of different donor strategies. security must of course remain a priority, but afghan citizens must also see in practice how the aid is benefiting them. we need to build more basic infrastructure, whether it be roads, schools, hospitals, etc. the success of the process will also require an 'afghanisation' of the stabilisation process: the afghans must be given the keys to take control of their future. many hopes are placed in the national development strategy for afghanistan (nds), which must be supported by the international community and the european union.
mr president, on the gas market i would stress two points. the first concerns longterm contracts. this type of contract is an important tool for consumers, whether private or industrial. it allows a long-term view of the market and thus ensures a more stable and efficient functioning of the market. the second concerns the security of the networks and, above all, the security of gas supplies. even more than electricity, gas transmission networks are of strategic interest. the question of ownership is essential in the context of the european model, which is characterised by a high degree of dependence on producing countries outside the european union. for these reasons, i support the amendment in favour of a third way, which guarantees non-discriminatory access to the networks. my group has also taken the initiative, as it did for the electricity market, of creating a single european transmission system operator, which would safeguard our strategic interests. i would like to reassure my dear colleague, claude turmes. the aim of this gas market directive is not to protect national incumbents but to give them the opportunity to be major european energy champions.
mr president, we are faced with two radically opposite approaches to gas, as to energy in general. the liberal approach of treating gas and its supply as one commodity and one service among others, which leads to unbridled competition and the absurd dismantling of integrated utilities. prices are rising, services are deteriorating, and marketing and advertising costs are skyrocketing at the expense of research and development and security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. this approach is the basis for the reports submitted to us. another approach is to treat energy and gas and their supply as a public service due to all on the basis of equality and territorial equalization. it would lead to a genuine energy europe based on cooperation and the common interest. it would be built around a european energy agency which would coordinate and pool all the research efforts of the member states and guarantee equal access to energy for all citizens. it would be based on a grouping of economic interests including european energy companies, both public and private. this eig would lead to large industrial projects throughout the union in a cooperative framework and would make it possible to pool resources.
mr president, speaking after my colleague mr hökmark, i will not take the same position as he or as he has just stated. i believe that on the eve of the adoption of this energy package we must bear in mind three challenges. first, the energy or climate challenge, which shows how much attention we need to pay to the nature of the resource that is gas and to treat it in a very specific way. the second challenge is one that our fellow citizens have expressed to us: price. they are now affected in their purchasing power by the price of oil and they want to be able to have a quality, reliable, constant resource, so that their interests are particularly protected. and then, of course, we have the challenge of the companies and the challenge of the employees. and today there is great concern, both on the part of consumers about their access to energy and on the part of employees about the prospect of the dismantling of gas companies. that is why, mr president, i think we must pay very close attention to all the solutions we can propose. and since we have to talk about it, i will address the question of the third way. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues in the itre committee who, in their wisdom, adopted the vidal-quadras-laperrouze compromise last month. i am firmly convinced that this consensual approach, allowing each of our member states to make the necessary improvements to its gas market, and in keeping with its traditions, will be a useful basis for discussion with the council, and i would call on my colleagues to confirm this basis. certainly, when prices are higher, it accelerates awareness of the delicacy of climate change. but we must respond to these three challenges, the ecological dimension and the security of supply dimension, and we must therefore choose the best of the three paths, the third.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating all our colleagues, and in particular jerzy buzek, on his report. "the beginning is much more than half the goal", said aristotle. starting to promote a set of healthy goals will therefore be the fundamental basis for this crucial commitment to combat climate change. this pressing challenge requires a redefinition of the european strategic plan for energy technologies, which is based on two recalibrated axes: producing cleaner and better with regard to co2 emissions through innovative technologies, spending less by reducing energy expenditure in all its forms and by valuing all solutions. unfortunately, this basic common sense is not sufficiently reflected in our main policies and the reduction of energy expenditure is not sufficiently supported in the set plan as in the main european structural policies. another imperative is that the urgency of the situation leads to an increase in both human and financial resources in order to really meet the european objectives. when will we finally respond to this urgent demand, to the formidable challenge of climate change? we are lagging behind in our funding of low-carbon technology research. and to use aristotle's formula, mr president, let us start massively funding research on these technologies, we will already have half the goal in this new world. our energy efficiency will be total and, in a minute, exceptional.
in writing. the gas market has specific features which had to be taken into account. they are due to the very high supply constraints which make it necessary to guarantee long-term contracts with the supplying countries, but also to the particularly high costs of investments in transport and distribution networks which must offer the highest level of safety to consumers. the political challenge here is therefore clearly to stimulate investment and innovation, to develop our know-how and to secure our supplies. by centring its proposal on the separation of assets, the european commission, in its competitive obsession, was not responding to these challenges. the text destabilised a particular strategic market, since we are heavily dependent on imports and foreign companies with which we should be able to negotiate in a position of strength, and not weakened by the prospect of industrial dismantling. the amendment on effective and efficient separation of activities, as a possible alternative to the separation of assets, can lead to a more balanced and, above all, proportionate text. this position must therefore be supported and will reinforce the excellent work done elsewhere on investment, access to the network and its management. this is how security and competition can go hand in hand.
author. - madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, thank you for giving us the opportunity to have this debate with the two institutions of reference. i hope, mr verheugen, that you can report to commissioner charlie mccreevy on the nature of our debate. we have had sovereign wealth funds active in europe for a long time, starting with the norwegian fund, and yet, until now, none of the actions of this fund have caused us any problems. two new developments have changed the game. firstly, the creation of large reserves by both the oil monarchies and the countries which have managed to create trade surpluses that feed these sovereign funds. the second event that has changed the balance of the debate is, of course, the subprime crisis, which has highlighted the strategic role that these sovereign funds can play. yesterday, when these funds intervened to invest here and there, particularly in the united states, their strategic nature was called into question. today, when we look at the role of sovereign wealth funds in providing cash and equity to investment banks, we see that they have become rather investors of last resort. in these circumstances, a certain emotion prevails, and that is why we wanted to ask this question. that is also probably why, unlike the commissioner responsible for the internal market, the president of the commission himself considered it useful and necessary on 27 february to put on the table a document which forms the basis of our discussion today. we are facing the risk of seeing a strategy put in place in each of the member states which, in the end, would not lead to facing the following reality: sovereign wealth funds have now acquired responsibility, an active share in the capital market, and this new situation, in a way, obliges them and obliges us in the dialogue we wish to have with the managing bodies of these funds. so, in the end, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we would like to raise five questions today. firstly, we feel that the response so far from the commission's point of view has been to say: 'well, let each member state implement its own strategy, both in terms of transparency and governance requirements for these funds and at community level we will simply check whether these requirements defined in the framework of each member state are not contrary to the rules of the treaty and the rules of the internal market'. we do not think that is the appropriate strategy. it seems to us that in a case like this we should be much more proactive and coordinate at community level, both to avoid unfair competition between member states, because we see that there is a kind of 'chestnut race' where each member state wants to be the first to benefit most from the safe long-term investment capacity of these sovereign funds and at the same time define and work together on strategic or sensitive areas which should be preserved. the second question is the problem of recording these funds. can we imagine, at community level, prospects for registering these funds, just as we are thinking about them for the rating agencies? the third question concerns the interpretation of article 58, which allows restrictions on the free movement of capital where public policy so requires. is there, from the point of view of the council and the commission today, one interpretation which should prevail in this area? we'd like to meet her. fourthly, is this not a debate which is, in any case, of an international nature? and our concern is that, from the point of view of the european union, we would be better equipped, better equipped to tackle the international dimension of this debate if we had, in a certain way, defined the position of our base camp, that of the european union, and not that of this or that member state which has rushed into this race for the attractiveness of its financial centre. the last question is the question of the exchange rate. what about a situation where the oil monarchies are now investing in euro assets, money that has been accumulated through oil sales in dollars and that is contributing to the current tensions in exchange rates, with all the resulting repercussions in terms of our trade balances? these are the questions we would like to ask on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, madam president, and mr vice-president, and we await the answers from the council and the commission.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to pay tribute to paulo costa for the excellent quality of his work. we're in a field that's very technical and unpopular. however, today, when we talk about the climate plan and the idea of actually limiting greenhouse gases, the question of rail and non-road transport arises. in this respect, we have worked hard during the two previous mandates to open up the networks. but there is still a limit to the openness of the networks which must be removed, namely the lack of technical interoperability, due to a number of reasons, whether it be the multiplicity of control and command systems, whether it be the recognition of the equipment - what is the subject - or the separation of the tracks, in particular. i am in a region called aquitaine, which is obliged to change the axles of trains coming from spain in order to ensure the flow of traffic. these seemingly highly technical issues are therefore in reality highly political, since they determine our transport policy and our political priority in the fight against greenhouse gases and climate change. these two texts are therefore extremely important. i would like to thank paolo costa for the new proposals he has made, particularly with regard to the obligation of mutual recognition. there are several ways of resisting the opening up of european networks. the railway networks were built on very national or nationalistic foundations. there is a way to resist, and that is to show very little will to recognize each other's materials. i hope that from today onwards, thanks to the text we are about to vote on, we will have european legislation which will make it possible to remove this obstacle which has been a major obstacle, particularly between france and germany. i would also like to take up what my colleague mr rack said about the agency: i think it is very important to give the agency the means to develop itself and perhaps to democratize it, so that parliament is more present.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank reinhard rack for his excellent report and i would also like to thank the commission, which prepared the green paper in the first place, which was subject to a wide consultation and which is now going to present us with an action plan by the end of 2008. my colleagues in the urban housing intergroup, led by jan olbrycht, who has just spoken, and i had commissioner barrot last year to discuss this subject. the debate on this occasion was particularly lively, particularly as regards the integrated approach. the commissioner, in the next few seconds, will try to show the value of dealing in greater depth with the subject of the integrated approach. in particular, there is a fundamental link between urban planning and urban mobility. when i say "urban planning schemes", i mean the absence of urban planning schemes. to illustrate my point, i will give you four elements. firstly, we can see that our cities are developing, whether they are small, large or medium-sized, with the emergence of sectors and areas for commerce, industry, housing and leisure. every time you develop new areas, you develop mobility. do i need to remind you that our cities have grown by 11 percent in terms of land area, while the population has grown by only 2.5 percent? that in ten years, from 1990 to 2000, the size of the cities has tripled the size of luxembourg? so what these numbers tell us is that every time you expand cities, you expand travel, whatever that is. finally, within these cities, in ten years, the number of daily trips by private car has increased by 70%, and each individual trip has increased by 20%. these figures, these examples, clearly show that without a successful integrated approach, which takes into account the different urban parameters, well, even with more economical, safer, smarter vehicles, with faster, more comfortable public transport, we will not completely solve the problem of urban mobility and we will not solve the problem facing our citizens, who will always be forced to make more, longer, more expensive and more unpleasant journeys. these urban planning schemes, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, must take account of urban transport, not only at the level of the city, of its urban territory, but also, as mr rack has said, at the peri-urban level. there is a coherence for each of our fellow citizens who work, entertain, cultivate, etc., in this urban and peri-urban perimeter. but the problem that arises, and it has just been mentioned, is to bring together the different administrative structures, the different municipalities and the other territories. we therefore ask you, commissioner, to take particular account of the integrated approach in your future action plans.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming the report by my colleague, mr reinhard rack. this new culture of urban mobility is a real revolution in our ways of thinking and of travelling. to use sieyès' famous phrase about the third estate, i would say: "what is urban mobility in a city? all of it. what has she been up to now? i didn't say anything. what does she want? to become something?" i would like to remind you of this formula and express my full agreement with this revolution in our behaviour and the urgent need for our european approach to be integrated and general in this new urban mobility, bringing the main principles of successful urban planning into coherence. i would like to say that i fully support the provision of a standardised solution base to design an individual range for each level of territory. this, commissioner, requires that the commission take up its responsibilities in the field of financing and put its approach into practice. in an interview our colleague referred to this method as a 'sushi bar' where europe would offer different dishes and cities could then take them or leave them. this flexible approach must not forget a dish, that of the urban weather. with all these ingredients, we can revolutionize urban mobility, and we can instill this new culture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for the quality of his work. i believe that the contribution of each and everyone ends up in a result where everyone can find their children; the message may be a little bit more vague, but i think there are some useful elements. mr president of the european central bank, everyone welcomed the quality of your interventions during the summer of 2007. we thank you for reporting this immediately to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. but today you have raised rates in a context where everyone is assessing that the crisis is not behind us and that the bad news, including those issued by the main banks operating at european level, is for tomorrow. when we met you last december, you said to us: "in 2008, we expect inflation to be 3% and then things will calm down". today, inflation is 4%, and you say to us, "i raised the rates by a quarter of a point and that's it". but with imported inflation, if your strategy is indeed to remain so vigilant on the question of price stability, will you be able to hold that line over the short and medium term, with the risks we know for growth, and therefore for employment? the phenomenon described by claude turmes, which we could describe as the entry of the european union into the second era of globalisation, seems to me to lead us to reassess the tools we have at our disposal to deal with the first era of globalisation. this first era was favourable to price stability, or at least to a reduction in the prices of consumer goods linked, in particular, to the phenomena of relocation. today, in this new era, we are in a new equilibrium and a new model where these countries that were emerging yesterday, today have full leverage, including in their access to raw materials, with the consequences we know about prices. so in this context - and here i am addressing both jean-claudes, since you were right, mr juncker, to point out the competence of the eurogroup and ecofin in this area, but they are never present in this committee and in this parliament - is the fundamental question now not the question of the exchange rate ratio, the question of the purchase of oil supplies in euros and the question of the ability of the european union, particularly its euro zone, to speak with one voice so that, ten years after the changeover to the euro, we can finally contribute to an articulated and responsible dialogue between the world's major currencies to obtain the exchange rate most favourable to our growth?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro is becoming more and more expensive compared to our main partners and competitors. this is particularly true of the dollar. of course, the policy of systematically raising the key interest rates of the european central bank combined with the policy of the edf in the opposite direction only amplifies the phenomenon. this exchange rate policy, which is detrimental to the competitiveness of the european economy, has been the subject of many comments, including from very prominent european leaders. the dominant view, particularly in this house, is that the evolution of exchange rates should be the exclusive and sovereign competence of the ecb. the ecb itself, through its president, refuses to comment on this subject beyond a few vague international statements. this is not only not transparent and not democratic, but above all it is contrary to the treaty. according to article 111 of the treaty, i quote: 'in the absence of an exchange rate system with respect to one or more non-community currencies, the council, acting by a qualified majority either on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the ecb or on a recommendation from the ecb, may formulate general guidelines for exchange rate policy with respect to these currencies' - i repeat: 'may formulate general guidelines for exchange rate policy'. in other words, the euro area has indeed given itself the means to debate and decide democratically on its exchange rate policy. my question is simple and it is addressed to the heads of state and government, rather than to the moaning, what are the governments of the union waiting for to act?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
chairman of the pech committee. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at sea. i would point out that the committee on fisheries voted unanimously in favour of adopting this emergency procedure, and i thank it for the diligence with which it has taken account of the problems.
mr president, rather than invoking rule 151 of our rules of procedure on the admissibility of amendments, since it seems that an amendment has only a distant relation to the original text of the report, i would like to propose to this house that this text be referred back to committee. i shall explain this proposal very briefly, ladies and gentlemen. the corbett report, according to its author, mr corbett, is essentially aimed at preventing members who share the convictions of defending national identities, sovereignty and independence from forming a group. however, i would like to draw your attention to the perverse effects of this report. the next term of office may well see a very large number of unregistered members who, discovering the affinities between them, decide to form a politically incorrect group, but in reality it would have even more members than you fear. i therefore agree with the very undemocratic, partisan and sectarian logic of mr corbett and the authors of this project, and i draw their attention to the harmful effects of this kind of text. i suggest you consider the consequences of such a provision in committee.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr corbett, has spoken in terms which are insulting, outside the committee, to the political family of which i am one of the representatives here, which of course calls into question his impartiality. the report is extremely questionable and it was amputated in committee; the only thing left were the arrangements for ensuring the survival of politically correct groups which would be below the minimum required, and an amendment was inserted which was precisely designed to prevent our political family from forming a group. the reasons given are totally false; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, they are often much smaller in number: 15, 10, 8, and sometimes just one person is enough to form a political group. the corbett report is therefore an attack on democracy and quite simply on the basic rules of fair play.
in writing. the issue of rail interoperability is crucial for the development and success of european railways. i therefore welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached to bring community legislation in this area forward. i voted in favour of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr paolo costa, but i am nevertheless aware of the limits of this compromise. ten years to get all types of railway vehicles certified is a long time. the role of the railway agency could have been much broader, particularly in the development and implementation of ertms. the member states have decided otherwise, fearing that the agencies and other national bodies - recently created, it is true - will be condemned to obsolescence. but the reason we have come to this is that, even in 2004, they did not have the courage to give a genuinely european impetus to rail. this is how europe is being built: by leaps and bounds. but this little game is very likely to miss some opportunities, and i hope that the member states will play along by rigorously applying what they have proposed themselves.
in writing. i have two comments on the lambert report and the regulation it amends. 1. the although the rapporteur defends himself against this, the draft regulation anticipates the free movement and freedom of establishment and access to the labour market for third country nationals throughout the european union, all of which, it should be recalled, have not yet, fortunately, become reality. it is a little more involved in stripping the member states of their prerogatives in immigration policy, that is to say, of their sovereign right to choose and control the entry, residence and extent of the rights of foreigners on their territory. 2. the it seems appropriate to provide citizens of eu member states with the benefit of a coordinated social security system, and to ensure that the social protection they are entitled to expect (by virtue of their work and contributions) is not affected by the 'international' mobility to which they are being encouraged. but the desire to establish total equality of treatment between european citizens and others in this area, without ever considering reciprocity, only reinforces the incentive to immigration that is already represented by the immense, blind and suicidal generosity of our social systems.
in writing. i have today supported the corbett report on the amendment of article 29 of the european parliament's regulation on the formation of political groups, namely the need to represent at least a quarter of the member states (instead of the current one-fifth) and to bring together at least 25 members (instead of 20), for several reasons. firstly, because i consider that this is a necessary reform to enable our institution to function better and to put an end to the fragmentation it is suffering from, with rules that have remained unchanged despite successive enlargements and the increased size of our assembly since 2004. the solution proposed by my socialist colleague, which ultimately led to a compromise with the majority of the political groups, seems to me very reasonable compared with what is happening at national level within the european union. moreover, given the human and financial resources made available to the political groups by the institution, a clear representativeness seems to me to be sufficient to justify this change as well. finally, it is a question of promoting a certain degree of coherence between the political forces at european level. our democracy can only emerge stronger.
in writing. this report does not accuse us of betrayal. from paragraph 1 it sets out its aim: the creation of a single european order. the report, which is a real pamphlet in favour of community law, calls for greater involvement and responsibility of national courts in the implementation of community law. it is therefore suggested that community legislation and related case law be incorporated as quickly as possible into national codes. the merger of the national and community legal systems is thus being pursued without at any time raising the question of the excess of community standards, their confusing wording, their frequent lack of coherence. the fact that we are moving towards simplification and codification of community legislation is certainly a good thing. the same applies to the adoption of regulations guaranteeing legal certainty; i am thinking in particular of those relating to the harmonization of the management of conflicts of laws. however, the case law of the court of justice often proves dangerous for the respect of national rights which are forced to accept its principles and dogmas, even if they are contrary to the best-established legal traditions of the member states.
in writing. so, are sovereign wealth funds, these state-owned funds that are investing all over the world, are they a good thing or a bad thing? that is a good thing, if that resolution is to be believed. but it is true that a europe which is economically broken by its own economic and monetary policies cannot afford to ignore the trillions of euros of potential investment that they represent. it is true that for the time being sovereign wealth funds do not disrupt financial markets (they have even come to the rescue of the us banking system) and are rather oriented towards long-term investments. but that can change. everyone knows how opaque most of these funds are about the amount of their resources, the distribution of their assets, their management structures, their investment strategies which range from ethical investment to the search for high returns, positions of control and perhaps tomorrow the capacity to cause harm. the countries holding these funds are far from all friends of europe. one of them has already raised the threat of "financial nuclear weapons". however, we abstain on this text instead of voting against it because, although it supports the free movement of capital at world level, it cautiously calls for some monitoring and protection against these funds.
in writing. the schmidt report is the annual tribute this parliament pays to the charitable work of the european central bank. and as usual, he seems to be missing the point: the terrible scissor effect that is crushing the purchasing power of europeans and for which the ecb and the european union are partly responsible. no one can believe that the official inflation figures (3% for 2008 according to the report), which are only composite indices, reflect the reality of the rising cost of living for citizens, especially for basic products, energy, housing. and everyone remembers the statements by the bank's officials, warning against the inflationary effects of wage increases, as if the wages of these same europeans were not under permanent downward pressure, because of unfair global competition and the immigration policy encouraged by the european union. as for the very overvalued exchange rate of the euro, it is true that it avoids the worst in the face of the increase in oil prices. but it threatens the competitiveness of many industries which are tempted to relocate, like airbus, to the dollar zone. we cannot therefore subscribe to this kindly consensus.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the situation in china after the earthquake and before the olympic games.
it's very hard to stop a speaker especially when he's fired up, but try to respect your speaking time as much as possible.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president-in-office, i congratulate you on the olympics of hypocrisy, lies and flattery. there's enough! you are behaving as governments have behaved for years in the face of russian communist totalitarianism. and it's always the same story, and it's always the same little stories that you tell us. you're talking about the negotiating situation. these negotiations, if you quote the tibetans, it was the permanent humiliation during all the negotiations, with the permanent blackmail of saying and in that they treated the dalai lama and his representatives as brezhnev had treated dubček , "if you move, we shoot in the heap". that is what we said during the negotiations, and now the president of the council, the president of the french republic, is going to say: "bravo the chinese". you show me what to do when someone moves. it is the chinese karcher, in which sarkozy's karcher is recognized. that is the truth and then you say to yourself that europe is a europe of values. on what, when? so now that everyone is here - and it is black wednesday in this parliament - i congratulate the chairman of the socialist group, the chairman of the epp group, they are all here. what's that supposed to mean? what do you mean, today? everyone says to me, "with the olympics, it's going to be better". in 2001, we said, "giving the olympics to the chinese will make it better". since 2001, nothing has happened, it's getting worse. what are you telling us? in four weeks, you'll be better? but why would it be better? the chinese are winning. the chinese communist party is winning. the harder they are, the more you get down on your knees. and the more you kneel, the more they win. why do you want to change that? they're gonna control everything at the olympics. they'll control the radios, they'll control the tvs, but they won't control sarkozy, that's true. they're even gonna give him a dinner with chopsticks. it's going to be so much fun. they're going to say, "ah, mr. president, we're giving you a hug, a hug". and sarkozy will say: "that's three nuclear power plants, that's 36 tgvs and i don't know what". it's filthy. it is shameful, and i believe that if europe does not wake up, if we show this image of a mercantile europe, unable to defend the most basic rights in europe or in the world, well, it is not worth building europe, and that is what we must say to the president of the council. (applause from the left)
in writing. as the report points out, a fundamental reform of the eu's enlargement strategy is now necessary. on the one hand, it is important to provide the candidate and potential candidate countries with preaccession instruments adapted to the challenges they will have to face: state consolidation, governance, socioeconomic reforms, etc. the report also stresses the need to review our approach to the european neighbourhood policy, which should no longer be seen by third countries as a substitute for membership or a step towards membership. the establishment of free trade areas, on the model of the enlarged european economic area (eea+) for example, is a first step towards developing closer relations with these countries. this strategy will promote the strengthening of economic and trade relations with these countries. it will also enable the european union to promote its ideals of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in these countries. the recent relaunch of the barcelona process, which aims to establish a union for the mediterranean, is an encouraging sign and a hope for the achievement of privileged partnerships with our southern neighbours.
for the greens/efa group mr president, obeida assida is a palestinian student. he was arrested in 2003 when he was 17. he is being held in administrative detention in israel without charge or trial. saed yassine is a palestinian human rights defender. he's 34 years old. he has been held in administrative detention in israel since 2006. no charges, nothing against him, his wife and children were only allowed to visit him three times. noura al hashlamoun is a 36-year-old housewife. she's a mother of six. she has been held in administrative detention in israel since september 2006, without charge or trial. marouane barghouti, the inspirer and author of the prisoners' document, has been detained in israel since april 2002. there is, moreover, i would point out to you, dear colleagues, an appeal that continues to circulate for his release. i still invite you to sign it. it is clear to everyone that if i were to list the long list of thousands of palestinian prisoners who are currently held in israeli prisons, in total violation of international law and humanitarian law, i would need a lot of speaking time. each of them, each of their families, deserves a long speech. because they are not spared anything: harsh interrogations of up to 188 days, during which torture is proven, confessions and judgments to be signed in hebrew, detention outside their territory in israel, without any basis, renewable every six months at the whim of the arbiter, submission to an ad hoc and discriminatory military court without any legal justification, lack of access to a lawyer during the first ninety days of detention, a visiting right that is almost non-existent. that is exactly what mrs de keyser is saying, and the eu cannot accept that. this is completely unacceptable. and you tell us that you're going to use this new dialogue case. what makes us think that tomorrow the european union, you, the commission, the council, will be better able to enforce the clauses already laid down in the agreement we have tomorrow with the...
mr president, i would just like to make two comments. the first is that certain problems are treated in a rather strange way in this parliament. it's always the same people we condemn, it's always the same people we talk about. if you try to condemn cuba for having political prisoners in its jails, you will tell me again how human rights are treated in the european parliament. secondly, there is a way for israel to finally release those who must be released. stop bombing, stop bombing israeli villages, stop killing children, stop shoveling bombs, stop sending children with dynamite in their pockets. and then, yes, israel will release the captives!
mr president, i asked to speak after hearing mrs ibrisagic recall the tragedy in the balkans, in which i was involved, as you will probably remember. at that time, our former colleague jean-françois deniau said: 'europe is dead in sarajevo'. i said to him: 'europe did not die in sarajevo because europe does not exist.' europe still does not exist and i congratulate our colleague von wogau for fighting as he has since he took over the chairmanship of the subcommittee on defence so that europe can meet the expectations expressed both outside, in all corners of the world, and inside europe where, as you well know, 70% of our citizens are calling for europe to take its place on the international scene in a way that is worthy of its heritage.
mr president, since there are not many of us, i would also like to take this opportunity to add, in the same spirit as mr morillon, that indeed much is expected of europe and, as mr von wogau knows, even today a country which is part of the neighbourhood policy, georgia, is practically on the brink of war. there are daily clashes between abkhazia - the separatist region - and georgia. the situation is getting worse by the hour, i'd say. and we have received again this afternoon an urgent appeal from the georgian authorities for the european union to get involved in the resolution of this conflict, and here we can see how much we need europe. when we set up a neighbourhood policy, well we must also assume it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the greens have a slightly different analysis to that of the other parties of these fisheries agreements. we are not only placing fisheries agreements at the purely commercial level, but also at the level of european policies. and that is why i refer to the opinion of the committee on development which also notes our commitments in terms of development aid, support for democracy and good governance. the question we have already asked in the discussions in the committee on fisheries is: why has the commission threatened to terminate the fisheries agreements signed with mauritania barely a year after they were signed? fisheries agreements, for us, are not just agreements where, on the one hand, you allow a resource to be taken and you compensate, and when you take less, you compensate less. no, we're cutting back because the european fleet has taken less in these areas. so is it the responsibility, the fault of mauritania, that the european fleet has been diverted for certain categories of fishing? we have always called for the fishery resources to be respected in the other fisheries agreements, and we have always been told that we are taking too much and that at some point, anyway, there will be a reduction in the resources. that is exactly what is happening now. we agree with the commission that the fishery must be restored, that this is a good thing. but what we do not agree on at all is that in the discussions we have had, we have asked what will happen from the moment you reduce compensation at the level of fisheries, the compensation would therefore be reduced from 86 million to 70 million, which means that the financial revenue for mauritania would be reduced by some 40 million over three years. so you said, "there's no problem, we can't just go from fishing quota to something else, and decide to do development"; we also understand that, and you have made a commitment on behalf of the commission that these 40 million will be compensated under the development policy. but today, in this agreement, we do not see this compensation except in a footnote which obviously says that in fact there is a possibility of compensation. so we don't believe in this compensation, i think you have a little bit deceived the country, mauritania, in this agreement, because the compensation granted is not provided for. i would just remind you, if i may, that when i was the head of the european union's election mission in mauritania, the european union pledged its support to this young democracy. the first political act is the threat to terminate the fisheries agreements. i do not think that this is a development aid policy and i would really like to know what guarantees we as members of parliament can have on this compensation compared with the reduction that was agreed.
mr president, the fisheries agreement between europe and mauritania on which our colleague and friend carmen has drawn up a report concerns one of the most fish-producing regions on the planet. this is why, for example, in dakhla, the former spanish capital of villa cisneros, now under moroccan sovereignty, a 40 km long stretch of sea is called the rio de oro, the golden river, because of the reflection of the sun on the scales of the shoals of fish. this fishery wealth had also caused us a problem with morocco. here we are dealing with an equivalent problem but concerning fisheries in mauritania, from 2008 to 2012, that is to say in a region where, for example, the octopus and cephalopod stocks may decline, hence the biological rests, but where, on the contrary, sardines must be fished, which is a predator of the octopus. in practical terms, this means first of all that fishing quotas and licences should be allocated among five european countries: spain, of course, italy, but also, mr president, portugal, and there are a few vessels, perhaps from the baltic states, freezer trawlers. secondly, we must reduce catches from about 400 000 tonnes to 250 000 tonnes because, curiously, these quotas are not being used, which is the same for the moroccan sahara, which would make our mediterranean tuna fishermen dream, my general morillon. here in mauritania, the average utilization of fishing opportunities ranges from 90% for shellfish to just 22% for tuna. as in all these agreements and protocols, there is obviously a financial contribution which is paid, such as a fishing fee, which is around 300 to 305 million over four years, at the rate of 70 or 80 million per year, and the commissioner told us how large this figure is, representing about 15% of mauritania's annual budget. the operation is also of interest to mauritania, which sees the contribution remain at about the same level, while the catches decrease. there is still a serious problem on the mauritanian side, namely the harassment of our ships and the seizure of ships which the country has a history of fining for passing through, but it is true that the european commission, as mrs isler béguin has just pointed out, has not been particularly sympathetic and has put the knife, if not the fish, under the mauritanian government's throat. while fishing is obviously very important in these regions, on the moroccan side, for example in dakhla, fish is exported to brazil and supports the whole town, which is why the fao and the acp are concerned about sustainable fishing and a code of good conduct. mr president, despite the european commission's behaviour, which has not always been very good in its negotiations with the young mauritanian democracy, this agreement must be welcomed, because it may be one of the last we get in the region, after morocco has tried to preserve and regain control of its natural resources.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs ludford for her proposal for a report, which my group fully supports. the european union's visa policy is a reflection of our welcoming attitude. we therefore want to find a solution that guarantees the security of european visas while respecting the fundamental rights of third country nationals who apply for them, in particular with regard to the protection of personal data. i hope the council will hear the european parliament's demands in this regard. we must find a solution that is acceptable to all. i share the rapporteur's concerns about the outsourcing of the collection and processing of biometric data inserted in visas. we do not want to simply validate the practices of the member states. in order to have a genuine common visa policy, it is necessary that member states examine the feasibility of the other options proposed before resorting to outsourcing. our priority is also to ensure the protection of the privacy of those who provide biometric data. we need to define very clearly the contracts of the external service providers who might collect this biometric data. in addition, in order to guarantee the security of this data, it seems to me essential that it be collected in a place with real protection. as for the age limit for the collection of biometric data, i have no ideological opinion on the subject. however, i do not think that the current experiments can guarantee that fingerprints from children under 12 years old are reliable enough to be collected for use. i think it would give a false sense of security. that is why i would like us to adopt a precautionary principle by setting an age limit for fingerprinting at 12 years old, and that limit can then be revised once we have the independent study that the commissioner has promised us providing all the necessary information on the reliability of children's fingerprints. as for the price of visas, which is of course fixed by the council, it must be the maximum. we cannot accept that visa applicants bear the financial burden of the additional requirements of the european union. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to say that i appreciate your efforts in the negotiations, because the european parliament wants to be heard and, so far, the council has not seemed to be receptive to our substantive arguments.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, we are of course continuing the debate which allowed us to go further this morning for almost two hours. i would like to make just three points in this brief speech which i consider essential. we have understood your priorities in the context of the temporary and exceptional measures to be applied to deal with the fleets which are large consumers of gas oil. but i insist that this must not be at the expense of those who have succeeded in reducing their energy dependence by using fishing methods and instruments better adapted to the needs of the time. that is the first point which i think deserves to be stressed on a psychological level. secondly, you have proposed measures which will have immediate effects, but will extend over the medium and long term. they concern measures to regulate the market and we can only welcome them, stressing that unfortunately, in the very short term, there is no miracle to be expected in this area. thirdly, and this is my conclusion, none of this will prevent us from continuing with you the discussions we have had since you took up your duties, on a reform of the common fisheries policy which will enable fishermen to have a better estimate of their capacity to avoid the cost-effectiveness problems which, when forced to change tacs and quotas abruptly without prior notice, are obviously very damaging to the activities of companies.
madam president, i'd like you to check something. it seems that it has been decided, at the request of the french presidency, to regulate the taking of pictures during the speech of president sarkozy. i would like to know who made this decision, who made this request, and who is in charge of the photography in the european parliament? is it the european parliament or the french presidency? i'm asking you to answer before the session begins.
mr cohn-bendit, you will have an answer before the sitting begins, but now we shall of course, if you please, proceed to the vote.
it is obvious, mrs lulling, that this will be taken into account because some members are having difficulty accessing parliament.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this concludes voting time.
the agenda calls for explanations of vote.
mr rogalski, as we said at the beginning, people who arrived on the way will of course be excused.
the president may give the floor to anyone he or she wishes. i wish i could speak to people who are not on the list, but i have every right to do so.
i agree with you, mrs klamt, but you know very well that we always ask for the same thing and we always have the same problems.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my british colleague sarah ludford, i voted for the legislative resolution amending, at first reading by codecision, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the common consular instructions to career diplomatic and consular posts in connection with the introduction of biometric identification elements and provisions on the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications. this proposal aims to create the legal basis for member states to collect the mandatory biometric identification elements face photograph and 10 flat fingerprints of visa applicants and to establish a legal framework for the organisation of member states' consulates for the purpose of implementing the visa information system (vis) with the development of common visa application processing centres to avoid all member states equipping each of their consulates with the necessary equipment for the collection of biometric identification elements. i support the main amendments, in particular those on the representation of one member state by another, the safeguards for service providers in the event of outsourcing and information campaigns.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 10 july 2008 on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a temporary specific action to encourage the restructuring of the european union's fishing fleets affected by the economic crisis. one of the main challenges facing the european union's fishing industry remains, in many fisheries, the structural imbalance between fleet capacity and available resources. the overcapacity of the european union fleet was estimated some years ago at about 40%. this overcapacity, combined with the erosion of the resource by decades of overexploitation, has the effect that the sector is unable to withstand external economic pressures such as the sharp rise in fuel prices. i regret that no community instrument is envisaged to annualise the rise in oil prices in order to give the internal market time to be able to influence the rise in its cost prices. i welcome the action of the french minister for agriculture and fisheries, mr michel barnier, who has spared no effort to achieve such a result as to obtain immediate support measures.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution calling on italy to stop the ethnic census of roma because it seems premature and i regret that parliament did not vote on the motion for a postponement in september 2008 that my political group, the epp-de, proposed. let me be clear: i am naturally in favour of a ban on the collection of fingerprints from the roma population, including minors, and on the use of fingerprints collected, because this would clearly constitute an act of direct discrimination on grounds of race and ethnic origin, prohibited by article 14 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and would also constitute an act of discrimination. nevertheless, i was convinced by the arguments of my friend jacques barrot, vice-president of the european commission, because he made it clear that the commission was following the situation closely and transparently to ensure that community law was being applied. i have been conscious of the fact that we should wait for the proven and contradictory responses of the italian state before taking political initiatives such as the resolution adopted which may be misinterpreted by the european citizens.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this joint resolution on the situation in china. it is important to keep up the pressure on china before the olympics are held in less than a month. we cannot turn a blind eye to the serious human rights deficiencies that persist, in contradiction to the commitments made by china itself. it is the responsibility of the european parliament to recall these public promises. it was important to mention minority rights, the rule of law and the still frequent use of the death penalty. finally, i regret that some of the more severe amendments against china were not adopted; i am thinking in particular of the demands for the release of dissidents and human rights defenders such as hu jia and his wife zeng jinyan, the mention of the situation in tibet which is far from being normalized, and the disproportionate sentences handed down without transparency against protesters in connection with the protests this spring.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take from mr brok's report on enlargement that any new accession can only be a success if, i quote, 'there is clear and long-term support from the population'. this phrase seems hypocritical, just a few days after the eurocracy's contemptuous reaction to the irish's clear "no" to the lisbon treaty, which is itself only a repetition of the french and dutch "no's" of 2005. or after the replacement in the french constitution of the mandatory referendum on eu membership by a pseudo-referendum on "popular initiative" which in fact depends on the goodwill of the assembly and the senate. but it is true that mr brok, knowing that the vast majority of europeans are against turkey's membership, does not even envisage consulting the people by referendum. it is only the good old propaganda that is used to win support for public opinion, which is considered ignorant or even primitive. if mr brok and his european or national peers fear - or despise - the people so much, they should at least have the decency not to stand for their votes. democracy in europe would certainly be strengthened.
in writing. like all the peoples of the world, zimbabweans want peace, democracy, prosperity. with robert mugabe, they have none of that. he was once the liberator of his country, now he's the executioner. today, this parliament is sending a clear message: it does not want mugabe and his regime anymore. because the people of zimbabwe have decided so. the eu must weigh in with all its might to support a zimbabwean and african way out of the crisis. the priority is to end the violence. only a dialogue open to all components of zimbabwean society will allow the establishment of a transitional regime with a clear mandate for the organisation of free, transparent and internationally monitored elections. but robert mugabe will only come to the negotiating table if he is forced and coerced. that is why we must strengthen the arsenal of targeted sanctions against the regime. finally, we must prepare today for the reconstruction of zimbabwe of tomorrow: i welcome the commission's proposal to release eur 250 million as a matter of urgency, as soon as zimbabwe is given legitimate and credible power.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my excellent german colleague karl von wogau on space and security. the time has come to have a common approach to defending european interests in space. it is becoming increasingly clear that we need space assets so that the eu's political and diplomatic activities can be based on independent, reliable and comprehensive information to support its conflict prevention policies, its crisis management operations and global security (in particular the monitoring of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of transport), the verification of compliance with international treaties, the monitoring of transnational smuggling of small arms and light weapons, the protection of sensitive eu infrastructure and borders, and civil protection in the event of crises and natural disasters. gallileo is, in this respect, an important building block for the eu's space role. this approach must go hand in hand with a defence europe and support for a european defence industry, particularly in the space sector.
this concludes the explanations of vote.
president of the commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, i am pleased to be joining you in the european parliament to present the french presidency of the council of the union for six months. i believe that this will be a presidency full of dynamism and determination and rich in concrete results, which we will all be working towards. the return of france to europe, which you have called for, mr president, is undoubtedly very good news for us all. the french presidency raises many expectations in europe, among the citizens and certainly among the european parliament, which is here. as i said at our meeting in paris on 1 july, the commission will stand by your presidency to give it its full support and ensure the success of the european union during this six-month period. because there are challenges! globalisation is here and international competition is increasingly fierce. new global challenges, such as the scarcity of fossil fuels and climate change, require urgent and joint solutions. all these factors place europe in the need to reform its economies to increase its competitiveness, to modernise its social models and to invest in education, research and innovation. europe has many assets to succeed, including its position as the world's leading trading power. but it needs to have the courage to adapt; if we want to protect it, we have to adapt. that's the problem. europe is going through a difficult period, there is no need to deny it: the irish 'no' and the world economic situation, the soaring prices of oil and raw materials, the sharp rise in food prices, the inflationary surge, which is the first enemy of purchasing power. inflation is the first enemy of social justice because when there is very high inflation, those who suffer first are those who have low wages or live only on their pensions. all these factors are casting a shadow over our economies at the moment and are placing policy makers, both at european and national level, before difficult choices. we must face these realities and deal with them realistically and with determination. we have just returned from the g8 summit in japan and my observation is clear: the influence of the european union, but also the expectations and respect it arouses in the world, contrast very sharply with the feeling of pessimism which is very often expressed within the union. i can tell you today that the european union is perceived more than ever outside europe as a positive and decisive actor. an actor who has great influence on the world stage. let us take two concrete issues that were at the heart of the g8 debates: climate change and development issues, two issues in which europe has taken the lead on a global level. the united states has now joined the fight against climate change by very broadly agreeing with our positions. last year, at heiligendamm, i remember very well that we had a lot of trouble - president sarkozy was already there - to convince the americans and the russians to accept the principle of a mandatory target for 2050. and there it is! it is done, and it was made possible by our european leadership role; i am proud of that as president of a european institution. this is a success which we owe, once again, to european unity. the second example is development, and more specifically the soaring food prices which are jeopardising the achievement of all the millennium development goals (mdgs). we have also been able to play a catalytic role in this area, thanks to the conclusions of the european council last month which, i quote, welcomed 'the commission's willingness to put forward a proposal to establish a new fund for agricultural support in developing countries'. the european commission will adopt this proposal next week. i am counting on the full support of both arms of the budgetary authority so that europe can quickly provide the aid it needs to farmers, especially farmers in africa, in close cooperation with the relevant multilateral organizations. this support is essential to ensure the 'green revolution' that africa needs for its stability and prosperity, which, as we all know, is also in europe's direct interest. as the european council has asked, our proposal will be within the limits of the present financial perspective. the logic of our approach is to attribute the savings which the rise in international prices enables europe to make in its internal policy of agricultural support to those who are now suffering most from this increase. there are situations of tragedy in the world that are extremely urgent. if you had heard directly what i heard from the president of the world bank, if you had heard from the mouths of some of the leaders of these african countries and other countries who were also represented in the enlarged meetings, the drama, the hunger that now constitutes a real threat to so many citizens of our world, you would understand how necessary and indispensable the help of europe is. (applause) i would like to thank that is why i believe that here again we can set a good example of solidarity between european and african farmers, a good illustration of how the cap and development policy can and must go hand in hand, because as president sarkozy has just said, we have food security problems in the world and we must face them in solidarity, not in isolation, but in solidarity. so there are concerns, it is true, but it is also true that, more than ever, the european union is indispensable to address them. instead of indulging in what i often call 'crisophilia' - there is even talk of an industry of europe's decline - let us therefore value the concrete and positive action of the european union! this is the best way of resolving the institutional issues raised by ireland's non-ratification of the treaty of lisbon. we must work on this because the lisbon treaty will enable us to work more efficiently and more democratically, but we must not use this as an excuse for not responding immediately to the needs of our citizens. the citizens of europe look to us for answers. the best way to respond to them is to speak the language of truth and to show political courage. two qualities that the french presidency does not lack! in a europe that is being tested, we must make europe by proof. we need to focus on policies that bring europe closer to citizens and make a positive difference to their daily lives. more than ever, our course remains the europe of results. i'm still confident about myself. the priorities of your presidency will enable europe to meet the major challenges it faces today, while preparing for the challenges of tomorrow. i welcome the priority given by the french presidency to the establishment of an integrated energy policy and the fight against climate change. as you said, mr president, this is the top priority of your presidency, and we know your determination to conclude this strategic agreement by the end of the year, which would put the union in a good position to enter the copenhagen negotiations in a year's time. the commission will give its full support to our efforts to reach an ambitious and balanced agreement with the european parliament and the member states. i have made it a priority for my institution, and i would like to thank president sarkozy again for his unwavering support of the european commission's climate/energy package. we must also move towards a controlled immigration policy in europe. first of all, we must deal with the immigration that an ageing europe needs in certain key economic sectors, and that must be accompanied by decent integration conditions so that we can be proud in our humanist europe of the integration we offer to those who honestly want to work here. the adoption of the 'blue card' under the french presidency would be a very important step in this direction. but we also need to tackle illegal immigration and the exploitation that often follows, including by putting forward the proposal to penalize employers of illegal workers. this is where the main effort should be made. we must not threaten the poor workers who want to work with dignity in europe, but we must punish those who want to exploit the underground. their practice is not worthy of our europe. so let's be clear, there is no contradiction. we must look at this question of immigration in a very realistic way. i am firmly convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that our failure to deal with this matter in a serious and responsible manner is one of the greatest threats to europe. it is not a policy of absolute permissiveness that will enable us to solve the problem. it would be the best pretext for extremist forces, for xenophobic forces. we must be firm, absolutely firm against illegal immigration, and at the same time be generous and show solidarity in integrating migrant communities who also want to contribute to the development and growth of our europe. i think we need to be clear about this; we must be firm against crime, but always with respect for human rights, which are the very hallmark of our european civilization and our project of european construction. of course, these are sensitive subjects, which are easily subject to controversy and misunderstanding. the commission has therefore proposed a balanced basis and has set out ten main principles for moving forward together. i am pleased with the positive response to this integrated approach by the french presidency and the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior at their informal meeting in cannes this week. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in a europe, in the schengen area, where freedom of movement is a reality, it is absurd, i repeat, it is absurd to continue with 27 different immigration policies; we need a european immigration policy. another project for the future is our social agenda. there can be no dynamic and competitive economic model without a real approach to social investment to prevent the risks of poverty, exclusion and marginalisation. france has made the new social agenda presented by the european commission a few days ago one of its priorities. i'm glad you did. to prepare europeans for the future, we must provide them with opportunities, access to quality services, education, health care and always solidarity. no one in europe should be left on the sidelines. europe is a project of openness and solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, many other projects will be opened during the semester, i cannot mention them all, but if i may briefly highlight two, i would like to pay tribute to those of european defence and the union for the mediterranean, which will be launched on sunday in paris. i see two opportunities for europe to assert its role in the world. here too, it is up to us to turn that will into concrete action. i wish the french presidency of the council every success and assure you of the commission's full support throughout this exciting six months ahead. the first duty of political leaders is to face the challenges as they arise and to redouble their determination to meet them successfully. we can do a lot if we move forward together. i would like to welcome the efforts made over the last few months by the french authorities, at the highest level, to work closely with the european institutions. the institutions, the presidency, the member states: we must work hand in hand. this is the key to the common success we owe to the citizens of europe and i would like to welcome the wish expressed once again today by president sarkozy that we, the council, the european parliament and the commission, should find together concrete solutions to the concrete problems our citizens face every day.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, france has decided to place its presidency under the sign of political will. the political will is needed to overcome the difficulties facing the construction of europe. the most profound is certainly the one that has been illustrated all morning and that is the one of the non-irish. we must get our citizens to join the european project. many reasons may explain their doubts: fear of globalization, rising prices, and changes in traditional family and social standards. but if we cannot convince everyone that the major issues, such as security, climate, energy or migration, can only be effectively negotiated at european level - and, at the level of the major regions of the world too, europe must be strong to convince the united states, india, china and brazil - we will not be able to envisage a serene future. the french presidency will also need the political will to convince its partners that the lisbon treaty will help us to decide more effectively and more democratically on all these matters of common interest. with the french presidency, the members of my group in the epp want all the members who have not yet done so to ratify this treaty. we expect ireland, as we have done with france and the netherlands, to propose to its 26 partners, after a period of reflection and respect, a way out of the impasse. we call on each member state to avoid over-bidding and to show a spirit of responsibility. our group wants to see an end to this institutional debate and trusts the french presidency to work towards that end. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are trying to equip ourselves with a better decision-making tool, our problems are piling up. we are not spending that much energy on creating jobs, defending our interests, promoting our social model and our european identity. i said, political will, well, we'll need it. it is also necessary to have this will to deal with the priorities which the president of the european council has just presented to us. there is urgency, whether it is on the climate front, energy front, migration front, food security front or defence front. the alternative is clear on climate and energy. either our countries feel that they must move forward and set an example before the copenhagen summit, and then we must take firm decisions by december, even if we demand reciprocity from our international partners, or our countries conclude that, despite the deterioration of climate conditions and despite our energy dependence, it is urgent to wait. i do not need to say which side my group is on! we also want to get rid of the hypocrisy on migration. while many countries in the world have already adopted a selected immigration policy with fairly satisfactory results, most of our countries have delayed these choices. it is time to debate and decide on this subject in a positive, humane and responsible way. the draft european pact on immigration, which will be debated in october, is a step in the right direction, and i am delighted that the ministers of the 27 member states have welcomed this week the draft by brice hortefeux. finally, i would like to mention two subjects which are very dear to me and which are vital for our future and our independence: food security and defence. i would like to think here of the poorest people in the world, but also in our own countries, for whom the rise in food prices is a vital issue. i hope that europe and the french presidency will make an effort to help them through this difficult time. on defence, i would ask only one question: how can europe be credible without a defence worthy of the name? we need defence to ensure peace in europe and to help the poorest in the world. and our group supports the french presidency's will to go ahead and make bold proposals to its partners on these two strategic areas. ladies and gentlemen, european integration is a highly political matter. i have no doubt that if we have the courage to make clear political choices, our fellow citizens will find a taste for europe again. i trust the new presidency will encourage us to do so and we have every interest in succeeding in winning the confidence of our fellow citizens for the european elections in 2009.
for the greens/efa group mr president, your european will, your ambition for europe is a challenge which we, the european greens, share. i would even say, to paraphrase a song you know, "it's a drug we share". i'd like to say something, though. if we have the ambition to say that the climate package, we have to accept it as it is, and that, in the next sentence, we kneel before the lobby of the german automobile industry, we have lost, because all the others will come and say: "we too". that's the problem. we cannot now cry "mama" because petrol is too expensive and not force the car industry to build cars that consume only 2 to 3 litres. it has been possible for 15 years, but because there are no rules forcing manufacturers to do so, it is the consumers who now pay for gasoline at the price it is. that's the truth, that's the way it is. (applause from the centre and the left) you mean the immigration pact. bank on the immigration pact. so let the bridge play its part: let the european parliament be involved in the decision-making process on legal immigration so that we can have a real political debate, a real democratic debate. because i am tired of every time we talk about immigration, after 15 seconds, joseph daul, we talk about illegal immigration, the threat of immigration. let us say first of all that if europe is what it is today, it is thanks to the men and women of immigration who built it with us. that's the truth. (applause from the centre and the left) and second of all, i'm not angelic. but we built a house where we forgot the doors. people come in through the window. i say to you: "let us first build the gates to europe together and then we will see what we do with those who enter illegally". you say to us: 'we need qualified people', and at the same time europe rejects every year tens of thousands of students it has trained and sends them back home. let them live here; if they're educated, they're not illegal. let us now turn to the points about which you said: 'it is not europe's responsibility in the social field.' mr president, you will not protect the europeans if we do not tackle social dumping and fiscal dumping together. we must put this problem to the europeans. you have to stop, and we're right there with you. do we need to talk to the central bank? let's have a talk. you want to talk to the irish? let's have a talk. but let us no longer accept that social policy is not a european competence. we can't go on like this. (applause from the centre and the left) i would now like to turn to the problems that divide us deeply. you're gonna eat with chopsticks, with the president of china, to open the olympics. enjoy your meal. i'll think of all the prisoners who are languishing in chinese prisons. i'll think of all the people who are arrested. i will think of all those who are mistreated in tibet and i say to you that you had a golden opportunity to defend european values, democracy and freedom, by saying: 'i will not participate in the opening of the games, in the masquerade of the chinese communist party.' that's what we want. (applause from the centre and the left) i'm telling you, when you write your memoirs, you're gonna regret what you did. you will regret it because you will see those who have been imprisoned cry because those who imprison them will say: 'you see, we can do whatever we want, the western world only wants our markets.' mr president, it is a disgrace, it is a disgrace to go to the opening of the olympic games. (applause from the centre and the left)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i shall concentrate my speech on a double feature of this french presidency, namely its undoubted strength and its all too obvious weakness. its strength, compared with the usual tenors of the union, is that it does not say that europe is doing well and must continue to do so, when more and more europeans think that it is doing badly and that things must change. fine, but then what? that's where the stick hurts. what conclusions do you draw from this apparent clarity on the crisis of legitimacy facing the union today, in particular its economic model and its way of functioning? you say you want to understand and respect the discomfort of europeans with the union, but you are pressuring the irish people to withdraw when they are only saying out loud, after france and the netherlands, what millions of other europeans have in their hearts. you are right to criticise the way the european central bank is managing the euro from its ivory tower. but you never suggested that the statutes which give him this all-powerful power, and even which set him this mission, be revised. you say that you want to 'serve our own values' on immigration, but you have supported the shameful directive condemned by the un high commissioner for human rights, by all the human rights organisations, by the european churches, precisely because it violates fundamental human values. you are avoiding the social question, which you believe should remain the sole responsibility of the states. but you say nothing, it has been said, about the european court of justice, which gives judgment after judgment, putting social models in competition within the union itself, and relying on articles 43 and 49 of the treaty. you say you didn't like the image of the polish plumber, and neither did i. it is a formula that was launched by the populist right and popularized on television by mr bolkestein. on the contrary, i welcome workers from all countries with equal rights in all fields. (applause from the left) and that is precisely what the present european law refuses. mr president, i would remind you that according to the court, in lower saxony, for example, for the same work on the same construction site, a worker from another member state may be paid half the minimum wage applicable to german workers. that's what we don't want. do you know what a man like john monks, the general secretary of the european trade union confederation, who cannot be suspected of being a populist, thinks of these arrests? he considers these decisions, and i quote, 'considerably problematic', because, as he rightly points out, they affirm the primacy of economic freedoms over fundamental rights and respect for labour law. what do you say? you say you want to build a europe that protects, but you are not heard criticizing all those structural measures that put the existence of europeans in danger: the obligation to open up public service enterprises to competition, the pressures of the stability pact on wages and social spending, and a number of guidelines prepared by the commission and adopted by the council which you apply zealously in your own country. i quote guideline no 2, 'reform of pension, social security and health care systems', i quote guideline no 5, 'flexibility of labour markets', i quote guideline no 13, 'removal of regulatory and commercial barriers unduly restricting competition', and so on. the reversal of the position of france and italy has even enabled the council to go beyond the obligations it had set itself by agreeing to a draft directive authorizing the 65-hour week, that is dickens the new father of europe. one last word, mr president. this weekend, in front of your european guests, the president of the parliament, the president of the commission and 2,000 french right-wing leaders, you concluded your speech with a phrase which the entire trade union movement interpreted as a provocation, and which was very imprudent, by saying that now, when there is a strike, the french do not even notice it. the day after this high-profile event, your minister of national education explained that this was, i quote, 'a way of reassuring our european partners in the presence of the most eminent among them'. well, if, to reassure european leaders, we now have to insult the trade unions, it is because it is definitely very urgent to change europe, but for good. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president of the republic, the peoples of europe are unfortunately having to bear in their daily lives the disastrous effects of the policies pursued by the european authorities in brussels and frankfurt. the people of europe are seeing more and more every day that all their powers are being taken away from them, that their freedoms are being confiscated: purchasing power, the expensive euro, gmos, taxation, fishing, the lack of trade protection, immigration, and even football, which you yourself mentioned a moment ago. they are completely unaware of it, and i would say, mr president of the republic, mr president of the european union, that you are completely unaware of it. you say it yourself, you underline it, and to deplore it. so it is high time that we acted and put our words and deeds in line with that. you have just lamented the lack of community preference, and you are right. but may i remind you that it was removed by the marrakesh treaty which you approved and that it is not in the lisbon treaty which you drew up. you are complaining about the irresponsibility of the central bank and you are asking for a debate to be held. we are asking for decisions. perhaps it is worth recalling here that this independence of the central bank, this irresponsibility which we see in action every day, was organized, celebrated by the maastricht treaty. you regret having to get brussels to agree to a cut in oil taxes. but this is only the consequence of the treaties of nice and amsterdam, which you ratified through the parliamentary process. in short, you have to complain today and every day about the effects of what you encourage every day, namely the dispossession of state powers in favour of post-democratic circles, composed of civil servants, bankers and judges. your presidency of the european union is a historic opportunity to put europe back on its feet, a europe rooted in the freedom of nations and respectful of democracy. that is why we ask you to respect the vote of the irish people and to proclaim: 'the treaty of lisbon is dead.' it is not for the peoples of europe to be reconciled with brussels, but for brussels to be reconciled with the peoples of europe! (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr president, you have been sworn in for six months as president of the european union, a rotating and temporary office. contrary to the majority of french voters, you have shown yourself to be a zealous europeanist, even daring to represent, in the slightly different form of the lisbon treaty, the constitution that the french, along with the dutch, had rejected in 2005. las, your project has just stumbled against the will of the irish people. the treaty of lisbon is therefore obsolete, despite all the manoeuvres it seeks to impose on the peoples of europe, the will of the ruling euro-globalist clique. as a young member of parliament, i voted against the treaty of rome in 1957, the first step in a process which, according to its promoters, monnet and coudenhove-kalergi among others, was to lead to the united states of europe, since this tower of babel could only be built on the ruins of nations and first of all, of my own country, france. since then, i've been a staunch opponent. we are told that globalisation is bringing fundamental changes everywhere that we must accept. but in reality, nations are growing stronger all over the world, supported by fervent patriotism, except in one place, europe, where nations and countries are being sold, dismantled, demoralized for the sake of a project without power, without identity, while waves of foreign migrants are gradually invading it and the opening of our economic borders is handing it over to unbridled competition from the rest of the world. none of the promises made to europeans to accept the loss of their independence, their sovereignty, their identity, their culture have been kept, neither growth, nor full employment, nor prosperity, nor security, and it is the anxiety that prevails on the eve of the systemic crisis that is coming: energy, food, financial crises. until then, it is true, the media ride will continue. yesterday, the european football championship, tennis at roland garros, tomorrow the beijing olympics, and today, the miraculous saga of an icon, ingrid, who laughs, who cries, who prays, who comes and goes in your brotherly arms! in your desire to be the liberator, you have gone astray in the path of negotiation with the farc terrorists, but it was neither you nor mr chavez who freed the colombian senator, mrs betancourt. it was president uribe who, with tenacity, against the general mobilization of world progressivism, won a decisive victory over criminal terrorism! you have multiplied the futile measures and have even gone so far as to invite the repentant communist farc terrorists to come and seek asylum in france, but to protect them from whom? the democrat uribe? at this point, why not the taliban, hezbollah, or the tamil tigers? you are like the amphisbeme, dear to caesar. i have no doubt, mr president, that all your media-management skills will not be enough to ward off the dangers that are looming and that you will have to face before the end of the year. our europe is a ship adrift, tossed by winds and waves, the only region in the world to have deliberately dismantled its political and moral structures, without frontiers, gradually invaded by a mass immigration that is only just beginning! the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it is high time to abandon the deadly illusion of federalism and to build a europe of nations, united in concrete alliances that are perhaps more modest but more effective. the two failures of the constitution and the treaty should serve as a warning. the people of europe do not want these projects and will not allow them to be imposed because they do not want to die. (the president cut off the speaker)
acting president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. i would first like to thank president joseph daul for his support and the support of his group. he will be invaluable to the french presidency. i share your analysis and you will understand that i will not go into each of the points, even though your commitment to a defence policy is absolutely necessary. mr martin schulz, may i say that i appreciated the sense of responsibility in your speech. like president daul, we met and talked. there's nothing secret about it. democracy should not be a shadow theater. it should enable us to confront our ideas and try to find compromises. i can assure you that, as for president daul, the french presidency appreciates the support of your group and of yourself on the subjects of consensus. i do not see why i should say that this support is of less use to me because it comes from the president of the socialist group, or that you should seek disagreement with the presidency on the pretext that i do not belong to the political colour which is yours. i would like to say that i am fully aware, and i say this to president daul, that parliament will have the last word on the energy-climate package, but better than that, it is not a question of the last word. it is the mobilisation of parliament that will make it possible to put pressure on the states which do not share the ambitions of parliament, the commission and the presidency. i would not say, mr president, that you will have the last word. i'm saying that your commitment is absolutely crucial. i would also like to say to mr cohn-bendit that this is not a question of bowing down to anyone, and especially not to the automobile industry, whether it be french, italian or german. why target german industry? in this case, the president of the council must take account of the legitimate interests of each member state. it is precisely a question of resisting the industrial lobby by allowing it to have fair conditions. and by explaining that defending the energy-climate package does not mean that we are naive. in other words, mr cohn-bendit, i would not like us, who want global equilibrium, to be accused of encouraging relocations. it is not respecting the environment and accepting relocations, it is respecting the environment and refusing relocations. any other reasoning is suicidal reasoning. if you ask states to choose between the environment and growth, you put us all in a dead end. sustainable growth and environmental protection are factors in economic development. that is why, mr president, you will not blame me if i prefer the analysis of martin schulz or joseph daul to yours, for once it is not customary. so let us come to what you have identified as a point of disagreement, mr president schulz. if you'll excuse me, i don't believe that. i would also like to say that if our german friends have not been able to agree on a minimum wage, it is not europe's fault, but the german political debate that has made you refuse a minimum wage. do not blame europe for a social failure which is due to the national political debate! in this case, as president-in-office, i have no judgment to make. i simply say: 'do not ask us, mr president schulz, to solve problems which you germans have not been able to solve among yourselves.' i would add that we french are very attached to a minimum wage in social matters. what does social harmonization mean? you germans refused to accept a minimum wage. we french want to keep our minimum wage. social harmonization would therefore mean that we should refuse our minimum wage because the germans do not have it. i reject this social regression, even in the name of my european ideal. i thank you, mr president, for allowing me to explain my social commitments. i would add, however, mr president schulz, that you are perfectly right about the moralization of financial capitalism, about the rules applicable to rating agencies, about the really reprehensible behaviour of a number of our financial institutions, and i would like to say something else: in all our countries, a number of heads of large banks liked to lecture politicians, politicians on the rigor with which it was appropriate to conduct state affairs. when i see what has happened in a number of large private banks, i say that those who used to give lessons were in a very bad position to give lessons and that today they must prepare to receive lessons. i would add, mr president schulz, and i say this under the control of president watson, that i am against protectionism. i am for freedom, but we cannot continue in a world where there are no rules, where rating agencies do anything, where a number of financial institutions want to make billions of euros in a few seconds by speculating in market halls. the europe we want, and the french presidency, mr president schulz, will make proposals on the subject, proposals for regulations to moralise financial capitalism, because today we can clearly see that if global growth has been halted for a year, it is because of the subprime crisis and the crisis of confidence in financial institutions, which have done anything, anytime we have lent money to anyone, under any conditions . if europe has any meaning, it must put some order into what has become the law of the absurd. i would like to say to president schulz that i agree with him completely. on the european pact on immigration, i say to president schulz and to president cohn-bendit that the french presidency will involve the european parliament. it's the best way to avoid excesses. you spoke, mr president, of the excesses that are taking place in a country - it is not for me to speak of them - but if we all agree on a minimum cost, those excesses, which you have pointed out, will no longer occur and, mr president, i am sure that president daul would agree, why not involve the european parliament in this? i'm not sure that's institutionally possible. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) mr. cohn-bendit, i know your generosity. you're never too cheap to give advice, especially to me. your honour, if i were to suffer, i did not really need that advice, i knew that unanimity was even necessary, but regardless of that, there is no need for unanimity for me to tell the european parliament that the issue of immigration is important enough to be discussed politically, for you to be involved, even before there is lisbon or any amendment to the treaty. it's a political commitment i'm making and i'll come with bernard kouchner and brice hortefeux to present the pact, to discuss it with you. we shall see with the president of parliament and perhaps the conference of presidents under what conditions you would like us to put this in place. mr president, the difficulties are an opportunity. of course, when you are elected president of a country and you have the responsibility of the presidency of the union for six months, if you do not like problems and difficulties, it is better not to be european and not to do politics. i think these difficulties are an opportunity. do you see why? because it's a chance for us to get past our national egos and our partisan biases. let me tell you that if everything went well, my hearing before the european parliament would not necessarily have gone better, because one year before the elections, when the wind is in your sails and everything is going well, everyone thinks about their own party interests or national interests. and because, i believe, the overwhelming majority of members are europeans, they are aware of the seriousness of the situation. everyone has to make an effort. i am not sure that president schulz, president cohn-bendit, or you yourself, would have been as open to the french presidency if things had been easier. i think these difficulties can be an opportunity. there is one point, mr president watson, on which i may have made a mistake. i should have spoken more about european energy policy. there are a number of you here who are wearing particular t-shirts because you are against a form of energy. i respect them. others have made other choices. but there is one thing that can bring us all together: we need a european energy policy, transparency on stocks, pooling of research on solar, on electricity, on biomass, on hydropower. i am sorry that i did not say so in my first speech, but the definition of an energy policy, despite our differences on nuclear energy, despite these differences, will be a priority of the french presidency. i think i can speak under the control of president barroso, and that is also his priority. this is a point on which we cannot waste time. i would also like to say to president watson that i am not a protectionist. i never was, and i never will be. but you liberals must also remember one thing: we are opening our borders and we have taken advantage of it. but at the same time, others cannot ask us to do in our homes what they do not accept us to do in theirs. china, india, brazil, mexico, the big emerging countries can't say, "open your borders, cut your subsidies, but in our country, we do what we want". this is not free trade and it is not a service to them. just as loving your country is not nationalism. in the same way as wanting reciprocity, protection is not protectionism. we can be in favour of free trade and want to bring about balance in that free trade. mr president, we shall have to discuss this again. some emphasize protection, others freedom, perhaps we can find ourselves halfway there. finally, may i congratulate you, mr president watson. i think we have the same taste in songs. (laughter) i will convey your appreciation to the lady in question and i am sure she will dedicate her last record to you, mr. president watson. no hard feelings, you know? (laughter) mr. president cohn-bendit, i have already answered many of your questions. i would like to mention two things. the first is the question of students. this is a matter of the utmost importance. of course europe must open up to the training of the world's elites. i've even been thinking, you know, for a long time that opening up to the training of the world's elite is to welcome them to our universities and, at the same time, give them a chance for a first professional experience. i am thinking in particular of doctors. but we must be careful, mr president cohn-bendit, not to plunder the elites of the third world. there are more beninese doctors in france than in benin. i think benin needs its elite. it's not refusing immigration, it's refusing to plunder the elites of the third world. we shall not be able to discuss this in a few minutes, and i am grateful to you for the way you have put it, but understand that it deserves a thorough debate and not caricatures. there's no generous people on one side and heartless people on the other. there are women and men of state who will try to find the best solution. a word, if i may, on the question of china, which is an extremely serious and extremely difficult question. i would like to say, mr president cohn-bendit, that like everyone else here, i felt your emotion in your voice, and i would like to say that i share that emotion. i would also like to say to president watson, who is calling on me to act collectively, that this is exactly what i have done, since as president of the council i asked all the member states what their views were and whether any of them were opposed to my participation. i shall speak in a moment about the substance, i shall first speak about the form. i would like to say that i have received approval from all the member countries to attend the olympic games ceremony. you know that this is a difficult subject which i think we must tackle very seriously, because we cannot afford to make any mistakes. but mr. watson told me to play team. i want you to know that i've interviewed every member country. no one objected to my participation and as i speak, thirteen will be represented at the opening ceremony. that is not a reason, mr president watson. it's simply the answer to the question of the collective. now let's get down to the nitty-gritty, if you will. i hear those who say that europeans should not be present at the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games. everyone has the right to have a look at how best to defend human rights. and i have to respect those who say "we must boycott". but i think - and i think this opinion should be respected, because it is respected - that it is not by humiliating china that we will advance the human rights issue, but by open and direct dialogue. i would even like to say one thing: i don't think you can boycott a quarter of humanity. i don't think it's a smart and responsible choice when you have the responsibility of being the president of the council to say to a quarter of humanity, "we won't come, we'll humiliate you in the eyes of the whole world". i want to go and i want to talk. the basic point is that we agree on the defence of human rights. on the question of how to defend these human rights, you agree that there can be a debate and that this debate will not be exhausted by the question of the olympic games. so i want to go there, talk about human rights and defend them. i will go even further, mr president cohn-bendit. there are things i will not say to china, because china must be respected, but there are things china must not say to european countries, and especially to france, because france and european countries must be respected as much as china. china doesn't get to set my schedule and my appointments. just like it's not my job to set the agenda and the appointments of the chinese president. so i will defend the human rights issue and at the same time, as head of state, i have to think about something. we always talk about contracts. i would like to say that i am wrong, but it is not illegal for a democratically elected head of state to defend the economic interests and employment of his fellow citizens. i want to talk about something else. china is a permanent member of the security council. we need china to put an end to the darfur scandal, because china is influential in sudan. we need china to isolate iran, so that neither iran nor anyone who dares to say that israel must be wiped off the map will have access to the nuclear bomb. how can you say to china, "help us make peace in the world, help us ensure stability in the world", and at the same time boycott the country at a time when it is hosting a major event for 1.3 billion people? it would be unreasonable, it would be irresponsible, it would be unworthy of a self-respecting statesman. (applause) i would like to thank after having expressed my respect for the opinion and the emotions of president cohn-bendit and of everyone in this house who thinks the same way, i would like to add this: respect those who, like us, think as i do. before i go, i have interviewed president watson, president martin schulz, the chairman of the socialist group, and i think i can say on his behalf that he fully agrees with the need not to boycott china. he's a socialist, i'm not one. i've interviewed president daul, and he's perfectly fine with it. i want to say one last thing. look at what china has done in terms of pragmatism on the hong kong issue. remember, ladies and gentlemen, this was a very difficult case. there were protests in hong kong 15 years ago. china has been able to resolve the hong kong issue pragmatically. look at macau. china has managed to resolve the macao issue through dialogue. i'm going to go even further. look at the taiwan issue today, where president hu jintao's advances on taiwan are remarkable. five years ago, everyone thought that there would be an inevitable confrontation between taiwan and china, but it's not. is china being brought forward by frank, courageous, direct dialogue or by humiliation? i chose dialogue, openness and courage. (applause) i would like to thank mr. president, just a minute, as a courtesy to mr. wurtz. first of all, i would like to tell him to calm down, that i am not insulting the unions but i thank him for pointing out that we can change france as we are doing it without paralysing it. and it's an insult to the unions to think that their only purpose is to paralyze. trade unions have a role in social democracy, as do political leaders. no more and no less. but we can't take hostages, that's what i meant. i am sure that a man as courteous as you, mr wurtz, who has never blocked anyone, can understand my point. as for the rest, mr wurtz, we disagree, but i do appreciate the way you express your disagreements. mr de villiers, i should like to say that i listen to your speech all the more because you are undoubtedly the expression of an important sensibility in my country, in our country, but also in europe. i will tell you even better, mr president de villiers. i do not take your speech as a speech against europe but as a call to build europe differently. i do not want to oppose, mr president de villiers, the 'yes' and the 'no' groups. i simply want to try to integrate everyone into a different europe, one that would bring together democracy, peace and growth. i have noted your prejudices, i know them, and i will try to answer them, not in words, but in deeds. as for you, mr president le pen, i was thinking, as i listened to you, that for years france had the great misfortune of having the most powerful far right in europe. well, from what i hear from you, mr president le pen, i'm glad it's over. (applause from the left)
mr president, i am a french and european socialist. that means that in paris i am not your supporter, but in strasbourg i am not your opponent. especially when i see you surrounded by two social democrats. even if my president is wrong in my country, he's my president. i therefore wish france a successful presidency, which will be a successful presidency of europe. from the beginning, i have been relaxed by watching you, because i understand your desire to be in the french parliament. and i'm discovering you, yes, head of state, but a bit of a prime minister in the open, no pun intended. as regards the social aspect and priorities, i think we must make a distinction. there are, in fact, some subjects which must remain national. i'm thinking about retirement. on the other hand, in all matters relating to work, such as the existence of a market, a currency, free movement, we must strive for harmonization towards the best of us. so, we have to make a distinction. i would add in this chapter that i would have liked you to have used your best efforts to draw up a framework directive on public services. you did it for the restaurateurs. we must do this for public services! finally, i do not believe that the european crisis is purely social and democratic. i think it's also an identity crisis. the moment peace is achieved, freedom is won, democracy is established, the world as it is is the moment when many of our fellow citizens misunderstand the meaning of the union's history. that is why topics such as culture, education, the mobility of artists, young people, students, twinning, all of these are fundamental, because the european consciousness is no longer a matter of course. it will build. and i think these are the themes that must permeate the french presidency. well, obviously, we're gonna try you for six months. for a frenchman, that's good, because in france, it's long, you understand. so, in december, we'll have the balance sheet. one thing is certain: the treaty will probably not be ratified. you wanted a simplified treaty, you have a complicated situation. well, then, unbutton it! i would like to end with a sentence from a polish writer, which says, mr president, excuse me: 'to be french is to take into account something other than france'. we have a reputation for that, and perhaps a bit of yours too, mr president.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to apologise to mrs muscardini for having forgotten to reply to you and to say how much we will need your group, because i was so caught up in the momentum that mr poignant has just so affectionately emphasized. i am not unaware of who is in it, and i know that you are among those who love europe and that there are parliamentarians who also love their nation. i am sure that i will take your comments very seriously and that i will try to build, together with the european institutions, a europe which responds to your concerns over the next six months. and then it occurred to you that i forgot... that it proves mr. poignant right... that, deep down, my reputation is exaggerated.
mr president, a few weeks ago ireland said 'no', and i think that, as we all know, illustrates the growing divide between european citizens and europe. this 'no' must not be underestimated, of course, and i believe that it must, on the contrary, oblige all political leaders to take account of the expectations and concerns of the people and to try to respond to them, whatever the treaty in force. the fact that we have the lisbon treaty tomorrow does not mean that everything will be erased with a magic wand. the french presidency has chosen to focus on four issues, which is obviously very useful, particularly in the climate issue. but in this time of deep crisis, financial crisis, food crisis, explosion of the price of raw materials, oil becoming scarcer, more and more expensive, i think that what the people expect is not only a matter of files, it is also a matter of vision; what people expect is a matter of perspective. i would like to propose three lines of thought. the first concerns the fundamental, essential question of our identity. i think, i am deeply convinced that there is a european model, there is a project for a european society. this european model is economic, it is sustainable and it is also social. this european model, for example, is trying to combat the growing rise in inequality. so there is a european model, we must be proud of it, we must claim it, carry it, assume it, defend it and protect it. that's the first clue. then there's a second lead. i think we need a new vision for the organization of the world. i am thinking in particular of africa. i think about the question of agricultural products and i think we must stop subsidizing the export of our agricultural products, and we must instead work towards self-sufficiency for africa in the areas of food and energy. this is the new revolution that we need to lead to have a more equitable world tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank you. finally, i think, and we must constantly remind ourselves, that there are european values which we must never renounce: these are democracy and human rights, they are valid for us in europe, they are valid tomorrow for the union for the mediterranean, where it is not a question of doing business above all and leaving human rights aside. the issue of human rights is essential for the decades to come; it is the deepest identity of europe and it deserves to be defended. mr president, these are some of the questions which i think we have before us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are not just political questions; they are also matters of conscience.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, to live up to our expectations and the expectations of our fellow citizens, the council you are presiding over and our parliament must show a clear, comprehensible and concrete political will. your presence at the head of the council is already a sign of your willingness. in this respect, we have all seen, here in strasbourg and in brussels, the quality of the preparation for this six-month presidency and the great availability of the members of the french government. the priorities you have just described are indeed likely to meet the concerns of the citizens of the european union. the other issues you have raised, such as the economic governance of the euro area in the face of the explosion in world commodity and oil prices, and the creation of a zone of stability and prosperity in the mediterranean basin, are also very representative of your commitment to a european union that is more responsive to difficulties and more attentive to its people. in the face of doubting public opinion, which is sometimes tempted to turn to the national level to solve problems, it is more important than ever to remember that our continent has a number of considerable assets and that it remains one of the few poles of stability in an increasingly unpredictable world. the european union must work to show that it will not tolerate globalisation without protecting its peoples, and i welcome your commitment to providing proof of this. finally, at a time when the union is experiencing a major crisis of confidence, we strongly hope that the french presidency will put an end to more than 15 years of efforts to reform the functioning of enlarged europe. we need the lisbon treaty to enter into force as soon as possible, and you have made that very clear. we have every confidence in you to negotiate with our irish friends and to convince the few member states which are still hesitant to ratify to do so definitively. mr president, you said last weekend that you were not ready to put your european flag in your pocket. we were able to see that you had it displayed under the arc de triomphe alongside the french flag. we take this symbolic gesture as a sign of your determination to act in the service of the community, and we thank you for it, mr president.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, you have wanted to place your presidency under the umbrella of a europe which protects, and i believe that there is indeed a very high level of expectation on the part of the european citizens. but that is why there is a contradiction - and you have understood the key message of the group of european socialists - with the fact that the social dimension of european integration has not been elevated to the status of one of the four major priorities of your presidency. as we have seen, particularly in the last referendums, the people are asked about institutions and treaties, but in fact they are responding to questions about the course of european construction and, ultimately, about european policies. and i believe that the imbalance that has arisen in recent years between the progress in economic development, which has continued and this is a good thing, and the stagnation of the social dimension, is also at the origin of this lack of love between the peoples and the union, of this disaffection towards the european institutions. the problem is not that europe should interfere in all social matters, but that once there is a unified market, including a labour market, there must be common standards to combat disparities which otherwise lead to social dumping and to ensure that the elements of convergence lead upwards, towards the better, rather than pulling social situations downwards. the commission has just published a social agenda, but if the council does not commit itself to concrete issues - you have spoken of concrete europe - to strengthen the powers of european works councils, to protect temporary workers, to strengthen the directive on the posting of workers - and this must be added - that there is a directive on the protection of public services and social services of general interest, then there will be no answer to this need for protection. one of your priorities is the europe of immigration, but the europe of immigration cannot be reduced to a europe of expulsions. that is why we must add an integration pact - we have discussed this with minister hortefeux - and a development pact. you just came from the g8; the european union and a number of member countries, including france, have been criticised for failing to meet their commitments on official development assistance. make sure that during your presidency this commitment to 0.7% of gdp is respected, and it will be more effective than the infamous 'return directive' in helping to manage international immigration better.
in writing. my first words are to welcome the european commitment of the president-in-office of the council, nicolas sarkozy, and his vision of the union's current challenges. i support the political claim that new institutions based on the lisbon treaty are indispensable, without which it would be irresponsible to consider new accessions. the europe of results must take account of citizens' expectations and be seen as a solution, not a problem. i support the idea of having a mechanism at the borders that allows for fair and undistorted competition that takes into account the impact of environmental measures related to energy/climate issues. similarly, the priority of a european policy on legal immigration is a human, economic and social necessity. i congratulate brice hortefeux on his excellent work on the european pact for migration. on european defence, the president's courageous positions will make it possible to make progress on this difficult issue, in particular by involving soldiers from all the peoples and by supporting the emergence of a european arms industry. the president is right to defend the cap, which has never been more necessary. finally, i support the need for a better political dialogue with the ecb, in order to have european economic governance adapted to today's global requirements.
in writing. i will confine my remarks to two points: - it's absolutely impossible to apply for asylum in 27 countries. we have the dublin ii regulation which deals with the problem of host country responsibility. it is true, however, that there are still differences between member states on the granting of international protection, and this is a real problem. - the second point i would like to raise is the fundamental problem of the human person in this world. how can we all live together in a globalized world? we must tackle the root causes of some desperate people leaving their countries, and i believe that the european pact on immigration does not strike the right balance between fighting smugglers, promoting legal immigration and putting in place ambitious co-development policies.
i am glad to see the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs here, because we have a delicate problem to deal with. my dear jo, if you'll just go back to your seat. i will explain the problem we have, colleagues. rule 149 of our rules of procedure says that we can check whether a quorum has been reached. you know that parliament is still in session to deliberate on its agenda and to adopt the minutes. so, there is no quorum required. on the other hand, rule 149 (3) of our rules of procedure provides that, at the prior request of at least 40 members, it may be checked whether or not a quorum has been reached. i have received a written request from 40 members to check whether or not the quorum is reached. so, obviously... mr. posselt, please, let me explain the facts. obviously, i can see that there is a prior request, clearly stated. the problem is that afterwards our rules are much more vague. it is never stated that the forty must be present in the chamber to make this request for verification of the quorum, but it is not ruled out either. so i have a margin of appreciation. in previous cases - we have checked - the president of the sitting has always considered that the forty must be present in the chamber to give any substance to rule 149 (4), which provides that when the quorum is counted, the forty must be counted. that implies that all 40 must be in the room. but i have a margin of appreciation. and there is the wording of the request: it concerns the vote on emergencies, but all emergencies, not one of the emergencies, all emergencies. if we ever consider the request for a quorum to be admissible and the quorum is not met, all the emergencies will fall, and you know that we cannot postpone them. so we will not vote on kashmir, or on the death penalty, or on bangladesh. if we do not vote, we shall not adjourn to the next part-session. parliament will not be voting on these matters which are said to be urgent. before giving my opinion, i would therefore like to hear, in particular, the opinion of the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr leinen, do you think i should consider that all 40 petitioners must be present in the chamber as is suggested by rule 149 (4) or can i consider that a simple prior written request is sufficient as is suggested by rule 149 (3)? i'm listening to you very carefully.
mr president, you asked our colleague jo leinen first to try to give you our feeling. as my colleague has said before, it is true that the manoeuvre seems a little delaying, that is to say that 40 colleagues who, for reasons of their own, were unable to attend this sitting are trying by means of measures and procedures to avoid having an emergency debate here this afternoon. i think, however, that perhaps we should look beyond the scrupulous application of the rules and look at the spirit of the regulation. the spirit of the rules is to ensure that the people who put in the request for a quorum are at least present to see for themselves that there is no quorum. otherwise, i think the request is either a political maneuver or a tactic, but it is a delay. i would not like to see us, by strictly applying the law, regularly having all the important emergency debates on thursday afternoons, which, if they were to be 'avoided', would not enhance the value of parliamentary work.
this is my interpretation after you, believe me, listened to it carefully. the wording of the petition by the 40 petitioners does not speak of the kashmir issue, but of all the emergencies, all the emergencies this afternoon, including the death penalty. so this case is important. we can have the debates without any problem, neena gill is right. the question is only about the vote. but i wanted to have this debate from the beginning so that there would be no ambiguity throughout the afternoon. i think that if parliament took the trouble to write rule 149 (4) saying that members who have asked for a quorum are counted in the count of those present, in accordance with rule 149 (2), even if they are no longer in the chamber, i think, as mr posselt said, that that rule was written only to prevent members from leaving the chamber at the time of the count. this implies that they were present at the beginning of the count. as i do not see that all 40 petitioners are present at the start of the counting, unless, as neena gill says, they are all present at the time of the votes, and we will check that, in which case there will be a quorum request, i am following the case law of the other chairmen who have been faced, as i have, with this problem, saying that the quorum request cannot be validated because all 40 petitioners are not present. however, jo leinen was right to draw our attention to the fact that the way paragraph 4 is written can be confusing. that is why i think it is quite appropriate - and it is not for me to decide this, but for the competent bodies - that the committee you chair, jo, be called very quickly to clarify whether paragraph 3 says that members must or must not be present when they table their request for a quorum, and whether members must or must not be present when the count is made, at the beginning of the count. i think that the committee on constitutional affairs, with its interpretation, will remove a thorn from our side. but as for today, given the importance of the debate, given the opinions you have given me which are clearly majority in the sense i have just indicated, and on the basis of the case law of previous decisions, we will hold our debates and, at the time of the vote, if the 40 petitioners are not present, i will not ask for the quorum to be established. the debate is about to begin.
the agenda calls for debate on six motions for resolutions concerning the alleged presence of mass graves in the indian-administered part of kashmir.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is aware of, and has seen reports about, mass graves in indian-administered kashmir and we are following closely requests from ngos to the indian government to launch urgent, impartial and independent investigations on this matter. meanwhile, the indian authorities and the government at central level remain silent on the report. we have also received information that the lawyer pervez imroz and another ngo activist who investigated the charges of human rights violations in kashmir were subjected to intimidation and harassment on 20 and 21 june. the commission delegation in new delhi is further investigating this matter, in close cooperation with the french presidency and the member states’ embassies in the indian capital. the presidency has contacted the resident commissioner of indian-administered kashmir in new delhi and has expressed the eu’s concerns over the situation. if accurate, such reports would constitute very worrying developments as to the respect of democratic principles and the rule of law, and would run counter to certain positive developments in indian-administered kashmir, such as the composite dialogue, which is still on track.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate, unless, as i said earlier, there is no quorum and the formalities are not met.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in bangladesh.
before i turn to the commission, i would like to reply to my friend jo leinen. jo, you said if we didn't vote this afternoon, the vote would be next time. you would be right if it were a vote that did not concern urgencies, because rule 115 (6) of our rules of procedure, as interpreted by the committee you chair, says very clearly that urgent motions for resolutions which cannot be dealt with within the time limit for debate become void. the same applies to motions for resolutions for which it was found that the quorum was not met. so, in the case of emergencies and only in the case of emergencies, if the lack of quorum is established before the vote, the vote never takes place. we cannot postpone it, it's article 115 (6) that says so.
member of the commission. − mr president, the parliamentary elections in december are indeed essential for securing sustainable democracy in bangladesh. there is progress but much more progress is needed, especially in the field of human rights. so far we assess largely positively the steps taken by the government to prepare for these elections as regards the electoral framework and dialogue with political parties. technical preparations have made substantial progress. yet, since bangladesh is under a state of emergency, we will be monitoring closely whether the progressive lifting of restrictions to the exercise of civil and political rights allows credible free and fair elections. let me also make it clear that our engagement in the process, including the eventual redeployment of an electoral observation mission suspended in early 2007, will be linked to this commitment by the government. we also share the concerns expressed in your resolution of 6 september last year as well as in your motions submitted by political groups for this debate today. restrictions to the exercise of fundamental freedoms must be limited to what is strictly necessary to guarantee security.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for debate on six motions for resolutions on the death penalty, including the case of troy davis.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european union is firmly opposed to the use of the death penalty and actively works towards the abolition of capital punishment worldwide. in countries that maintain the death penalty, the eu aims at the progressive restriction of its scope, as well as at the establishment of a moratorium so as to eliminate the death penalty completely. the guidelines to eu policy towards third countries on the death penalty, adopted in 1998 and revised in 2008, set out the framework for eu action. they include declarations or demarches in international fora and towards third countries, including the united states of america. as regards the usa, the eu is deeply concerned about the resumption of executions since the lifting of the de facto moratorium on the death penalty in may. we have repeatedly urged the us government to reintroduce a moratorium on the death penalty at federal level and we hope that the united states will consider abolishing the death penalty by law in the foreseeable future. we take note of parliament’s motion for a resolution regarding the individual case of mr troy davis. we have intelligence from our washington delegation that the governor of georgia has not yet signed the execution order and that he is apparently in no hurry to do so. the commission, along with eu member states and the presidency, will of course follow this case very closely.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
i was therefore saying at the beginning of the sitting this afternoon that i asked for the opinion of at least one representative from each group, since i had been informed that there was no quorum on the basis of rule 149 of our rules of procedure. this request was based on a written request from 40 members of parliament. in fact, to be quite honest, 39 plus 1, because the eleventh name on this list is totally illegible, i am unable to tell you, we are unable to tell you, who is the fortieth signatory on this list. after the debate and after hearing the opinion of the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, i took up my responsibilities and interpreted rule 149 (4) of our rules of procedure in this way, which states that members who have asked for a quorum to be established are counted in the count of those present, even if they are no longer in the chamber. i would like to draw your attention to the word "more". it doesn't say "not in the courtroom", it says "not in court". that implies they must have been there before. the 'before' certainly does not refer to the fact that they came in the previous months, but certainly at the time of the quorum request. i therefore made it clear that before the vote i would check whether all 40 signatories were present, although i could hardly tell you who the 40th was. according to the courtroom services, we have five people in the room. that said, if 40 members now stand up and ask for a quorum to be established, i shall establish a quorum. are there 40 members who will stand up and ask for a quorum?
mrs gill, i think, especially since this afternoon, i have begun to know rule 149 by heart. you refer to paragraph 5. it is the president of the sitting, and he alone, who may decide to do so, and at any time, that the quorum is not present. but given the importance of the votes we're about to take, particularly on the death penalty case, i wouldn't play this game. if 40 colleagues do not take their responsibilities and stand up, i myself will not be able to determine the quorum. will there be forty colleagues standing? i don't see any. we shall now proceed to the vote.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this concludes voting time.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.45 p.m.)
the point is closed.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the european judicial network (05620/2008 - c6-0074/2008 - 2008/0802 ((cns)) (a6-0292/2008),- the report by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the strengthening of eurojust and the amendment of decision 2002/187/jha (05613/2008 - c6-0076/2008 - 2008/0804 ((cns)) (a6-0293/2008), and- the report by armado france, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions (05598/2008 - c6-0075/2008 - 2008/0803 ((cns)) (a6-0285/2008).
madam president, commissioner, i would just like to say a few words to congratulate the rapporteurs, but also the council presidency, on the results achieved at this stage of the discussion and the drafting of the texts. many of our citizens ask themselves on a daily basis what europe's added value is. in the area of justice, any measure to improve this essential public service is likely to increase the perception of the usefulness of the european approach to the security of citizens. in this regard, it is particularly important to ensure the enforceability of judgments at european level and to remove the obstacles to their enforcement within the territory of the union. that is the meaning of the texts that are being proposed to us. these measures will, while respecting public freedoms, strengthen the effectiveness of sanctions imposed by national courts.
madam president, i am echoing what mrs buitenweg has just said. the question raised by these texts, as by all the progress made in this area over the last 20 years, is very simple: in the european union, as my colleague jean-paul gauzès has said, is the interest of citizens, and in particular of honest citizens, taken into account first, or is the interest of states and state apparatuses taken into account first? it is clear that the construction of europe - which may be regrettable but is a reality and a positive reality in today's world - consists in ensuring that the state apparatuses of the 27 member states cannot, as they have done for too long, oppose the interests of citizens and in particular that of security. this is the whole point of the european project, otherwise there is no european project. we must therefore support the council and these three proposals.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the dublin system should indeed make it possible to determine the member state responsible for an asylum application, but this system is profoundly unfair. asylum seekers may thus sometimes be returned to a member state which is known to reject their asylum application when the member state in which they are present would have granted them refugee status. that's the first injustice. the system also poses a problem of solidarity between member states. the member states on the external borders of europe bear a greater burden, as is well known. on our return from malta we had asked for the very principle of the dublin system to be called into question. we believe that the member state responsible for processing an asylum application should not necessarily be the first country of access. there must be solidarity between the processing of applications. we have seen serious shortcomings, particularly in the protection of unaccompanied minors. we have found that the member states do not make sufficient use of the instruments which enable minors to be reunited with their family members in another member state. we also want minors to be able to join, for example, uncles and aunts in another member state, rather than being left to their own devices. so we need to broaden the concept of family. finally, we deplore the almost systematic use by some member states of the detention of persons awaiting dublin transfer. it should be remembered that these people are seeking international protection and that their application has not yet been thoroughly examined. and the evaluation of the dublin ii regulation must therefore enable us to correct the serious shortcomings we have observed during our visits to the detention camps. we visited many of the camps and returned, i must say, quite disgusted with some of the visits. i would remind you that the purpose of the dublin regulation is to determine the member state responsible for the application for asylum. the regulation must allow access to the asylum system and must ensure that a member state carries out a thorough examination of any asylum application. the european union must not dismiss its responsibility towards third countries. it must guarantee the protection of the right of asylum.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has prevailed in georgia since this summer is unacceptable, intolerable and deserves a firm and determined response from the european union. russia has the same rights and duties as all the states of the international community. one of these duties is to respect sovereignty, territorial integrity and above all not to violate internationally recognized borders. however, by invading and occupying georgian territory and by recognising the independence of the breakaway georgian provinces of south ossetia and abkhazia, the russian authorities have violated, one after the other, each of these three fundamental principles of international law. the european union must be active in resolving this conflict and i commend the french presidency for its proactive approach. we must live up to the hopes of the thousands of georgians who are crying out in distress in the streets of tbilisi. my group calls on the commission, the council and all the member states to show both unity and firmness towards our russian neighbour. the european union cannot simply condemn these systematic violations of international rules in words. our group believes that europe must use the means at its disposal, and in particular its political and economic tools, to put pressure on russia and to force it to respect the agreements it has signed. we call on russia to honour all the commitments it made when signing the ceasefire agreement, starting with the immediate and complete withdrawal of russian troops from georgian territory and the reduction of the russian military presence in south ossetia and abkhazia. we also condemn the looting by the russian invasion forces and the mercenaries who accompany them, as you have very well said, mr minister. we are extremely concerned about the fate of the georgian population in south ossetia who were forcibly displaced even after the signing of the ceasefire agreement, and we strongly urge the russian and south abkhaz authorities to guarantee the return of these populations to their homes. we call on the council and the commission to review their policy towards russia, including the negotiations on the partnership agreement, in the event of russia's failure to respect its commitments under the ceasefire. we also call on the council and the commission to make a strong contribution to the international mechanisms that will be put in place by the settlement of the conflict, including through an esdp mission on the ground. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the european union in several sensitive areas: first of all our energy supply. more than ever, europe's energy security must be ensured. we must develop and protect alternatives to russia's energy transport infrastructure. and secondly, it seems clear that the european union could play a much greater role in managing this crisis if the european security and defence policy were strengthened. the treaty of lisbon allows for this reinforcement. we therefore call on those member states which have not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible. our group believes that the only way to ensure stability and security on both sides of the atlantic is to develop cooperation on an equal footing between the european union and the united states. we also recall that georgia is aiming to join the atlantic alliance in the future. ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious moment and the european union must not miss this opportunity to show its firmness and determination towards the russian federation, however great and powerful it may be. it is a question of the credibility of the european union, of the stability of the whole region, of the protection of our closest neighbours and even of the member states of the union. and i also call on you, mr president-in-office, to ensure that relations with ukraine are resumed very quickly. i thank you for your attention and ask you to be very firm.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in the present situation we need to discuss what we should do immediately. i believe that what the council has decided, what has been done, is within the realm of possibility, and we can always argue now whether we should not have had to hold an extraordinary council, an extraordinary council of heads of government, to show our cohesion, but let us do so. i think we need to ask some fundamental questions now. the fundamental question is indeed our position vis-à-vis russia, our cooperation with russia and how we actually want to solve these caucasus problems. because there is nagorny karabakh; now you can have conflicts all the time and so, president sarkozy can be constantly faced with such situations - he could take a room in the kremlin and stay there indefinitely, that would also be a possibility. i believe the following: firstly, mr daul, if there is something that should not be discussed, it is the integration of georgia and ukraine into nato. this is the most stupid thing right now, because it means that we cannot go any further politically. will georgia or ukraine join nato when the nato reforms take place? maybe i don't know. but that's really not the issue today. do you think if georgia had been in nato, article 5 would have been invoked? of course not! so, you don't have to say anything. on the other hand - and i agree with mr watson - how to control actions like those of president saakashvili, because we agree that russia's action is unacceptable, but it is unacceptable that a georgian president decides to bomb a city, for whatever reason! if there are provocations, we respond differently but we don't bomb. so there is a real political problem. and the political problem, we propose to tackle it in the following way: we propose to georgia, we propose to ukraine a privileged partnership as a first step towards possible integration. integration that can take place if there is a fundamental reform of europe, etc. but let us have political instruments and not just economic and social instruments to put pressure on these political classes. the future in the european area means that it is a future which will eradicate nationalism from these countries. let us take up the phrase of françois mitterrand: "nationalism is war". georgian nationalism, russian nationalism, abkhazian nationalism and south ossetian nationalism is war! and we europeans must say: 'our vision is to go beyond that.' so, by proposing a european perspective, we also propose to put european values on the table, because if nationalism persists in these regions, no solution will be found.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, in the caucasus crisis, adopting a pro-georgian or pro-russian position can only lead to a deadlock. this has been crystal clear since the collapse of the soviet union 17 years ago, in this region of recurrent tensions and contested borders, where the collective memory is haunted by the traumas inherited from successive wars and violence, where the ethnic and religious mosaic and the accumulation of resentments and humiliations provide a dangerously fertile ground for nationalism. in this context, political irresponsibility pays off in cash. and that goes for everybody. this is true of the georgian president: since his election in 2004, he has been constantly flattering the spirit of revenge regarding the secessionist territories; he has steadily increased his allegiance to the bush administration and its policy of confrontation in the region; the european union has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and the council of europe has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia, and it has been very active in the fight against the war in south ossetia. this strategy is disastrous for georgia, for the caucasus and for europe. the lesson is equally valid for the russian leadership. the brutality of the response, including against civilian populations, the prolongation of the occupation of strategic sectors of georgian territory, the expulsion of georgian populations from south ossetia and the unilateral recognition of the independence of two secessionist territories are all acts which ruin the interest aroused in more than one european country by the first international initiatives of the new president. russia has everything to lose by returning to a period of political isolation in europe and the world. finally, the whole of the west would be well advised to take stock of the unprecedented damage already caused by american adventurism and european follow-through in this part of the continent. the strategy of nato's unlimited enlargement, the bombing of serbia and then the recognition of kosovo's unilaterally proclaimed independence, the support for the installation of the missile shield on european soil, not to mention the excessive glorification of leaders in the region who are subject to caution when they declare themselves anti-russian and pro-western, all these choices are evidence of a short-sighted policy, worthy of the present white house, but unworthy of a european security policy. this strategy of militarizing international relations and political confrontation has failed before our eyes. the eu's priority, therefore, in addition to the deployment of european observers in the framework of the osce, should be to stop the escalation at all costs and to explore as quickly as possible, and without arrogance, the possible ways of drawing up a new legally binding pan-european security and cooperation treaty which would take into account all the outstanding issues: territorial integrity, inviolability of borders, the fate of frozen conflicts, non-use of force, disarmament, up to and including energy security. the challenge is certainly more difficult to meet today than it was yesterday, but outside of that perspective, i fear the worst is yet to come. in taking our stand, let us remember that this 1 september is the international day of peace. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i represented you in georgia during my visit to georgia from 12 to 17 august on the mandate of our president, and i offered our support to the georgian people, reassuring them that the european union would not abandon them. i therefore thank the presidency for the efforts made to take very rapid action in georgia. of course, this settlement of the conflict is a test for the european union, as we know, and the union has finally responded, i would say. because at what cost? at the cost, once again, of innocent citizens, because, ladies and gentlemen, this history was written. how long have some of us been preaching in the desert? even those who now say that we must move towards integration, give prospects of membership of the european union, used to say to us "wait, let's be reasonable". today we have war, we have war between russia and georgia. when we said that this was not a conflict between georgia and abkhazia and south ossetia, but a conflict between russia and georgia, no one wanted to listen. and today, we have a war behind us. so, indeed, history was made, because it's not enough to go back to a few events or a few hours before the 11th. let's go back to 2005, when russia vetoed the idea of having border guards on the russian-georgian border. no one has responded and even france - i apologize, mr president - france refused when we asked for osce forces on the border. no one responded. when the russians violated georgian airspace, we again failed to respond and the escalation escalated. today, that unfortunate war has taken place and we must rebuild. we must rebuild, but we must also resolve the conflict. a conference for reconstruction, yes, but a conference for the resolution of the conflict. and i might ask you to follow the example of what was done in kosovo, namely to set up an international civil administration. and the peacekeepers... what georgian citizen today would accept the russian army playing policeman? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, many speakers, starting with the president-in-office of the council, mr bernard kouchner, deplore the recognition by russia of the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia. it is true that this decision has serious consequences, for the states of the caucasus, for europe and, tomorrow, for russia itself. for the decision to grant independence to abkhazia and south ossetia could give ideas to north ossetia, chechnya, ingushetia, dagestan and other parts of the russian federation. whether in the caucasus, tibet, africa or elsewhere, one of the challenges of our time is to find a balance between the aspiration of certain peoples for autonomy on the one hand and the intangibles of borders on the other. an intangible without which peace would be gravely threatened, the peace to which true patriots aspire. but we europeans are also open to criticism. we hear about respect for international borders, but we have set a precedent in kosovo, much to the displeasure of mr kushner. we are told that there was an international decision on kosovo, but that is a joke, the un never authorised war against serbia. russia has withdrawn from eastern europe, which was once enslaved by the ruthless communist dictatorship, it has withdrawn from the baltic states, from ukraine, from the republics of central asia. the further she retreated, the more we surrounded her. the warsaw pact is gone, but we have offered no other answer than the indefinite extension of the atlantic alliance. today we are reaping the rewards!
mr president, our position is expected to be subtle and firm. the united states, by the will of the russians but also because of the current electoral period, cannot be the catalyst for an overall political situation for this area of the union's neighbourhood. we have a unique, historic opportunity, as the european union, to structure our foreign and security policy, to make europe emerge through results, through evidence. let's not ruin it. the necessary sentences do not provide the solutions. even though the pandora's box has been opened with kosovo, with a recognition that defies the rules of international law, let us put international law and respect for human rights back at the heart of the solution. let us be firm actors, political actors, and take a clear, common, firm position towards russia, but with a view to finding a solution, a partnership, because lucidity is also part of russia's approach in 2008. let us propose, under the auspices of the european union, a regional conference on the resolution of the situation, on the future of partnerships. it is through this determination of a united voice of the european union that we will reduce the destructive poison of nationalism, which always leads inexorably to war.
in writing. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr minister jean-pierre jouyet, commissioner and mrs benita ferrero-waldner, my first words will be to thank the colleagues who have welcomed the french presidency of the european union and the action of nicolas sarkozy on this difficult issue of the conflict between russia and georgia. we are still managing the borders of the former eastern roman empire with the balkans and kosovo to the west, and the caucasus, south ossetia and abkhazia to the north. what should guide our behaviour as europeans is respect for the peoples and i suggest that, depending on the gravity of the situation in georgia, an extraordinary meeting of the european parliament's foreign affairs committees and the national parliaments of the member states be considered, because it is we, the parliamentarians, who represent the citizens. finally, it is becoming clear that the 'black sea synergy' set by the european commission at the end of 2007 is not enough and it is urgent that the union should propose a truly ambitious neighbourhood policy with the countries bordering the black sea, starting with a free trade economic zone.
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking mrs lambert for the quality of her work. the report on which we are to vote tomorrow has the double merit of looking very clearly at the imperfections and dysfunctions of the dublin system and of making proposals to improve the efficiency of the procedures and the situation of asylum seekers. i would like to stress a number of points which i consider to be fundamental: the need to strengthen the rights of asylum seekers and guarantee them in the same way throughout the union; the fact that detention of asylum seekers should always be a decision of last resort, duly justified; the need to ensure a better distribution of asylum applications - the current system places a disproportionate burden on member states at the eu's external borders - and to take action against member states that do not ensure a thorough and fair examination of asylum applications; and finally the importance of family reunification and a broader definition of the concept of 'family member' to include all close relatives.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, our colleague mr meyer has clearly identified the issues involved in this question and i would like to say, commissioner, that i understand your technical answer with regard to translations, but what mr meyer has said on this subject is only the embodiment of the real question: how do we move from the university, from academic work, to political decision-making? what about the court decision? i think it is absolutely essential that everyone understands this, because this draft common framework of reference which was given to you at the end of last year must be taken into account in all the work that is being done on this issue, and not just the draft which was given to you. for example, it is clear that we have to choose between going to a law of obligations or going to a law of contracts. and there are several schools. that's the choice we'll have to make. to do this, of course, you have to have several proposals. similarly, will the content of the jrc be restricted content, and at that time binding, or will it be general content, and at that time much more indicative? for all this we need various elements and it is of course important that parliament does its work and that it can do it very early on. that is why - and i will conclude on this in a very practical way - it is very important that parliamentarians take part in large numbers in the hearing which the commission will be organising with experts at the beginning of october and in the symposium which the french presidency of the european union will be holding in paris on 23 and 24 october. this is a subject that deserves an open, transparent debate, beyond the specialists, among those who have the political decisions in their hands.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank mrs bowles for the quality of the work and the result we were able to achieve in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a text as important as this. i would remind our colleagues that 200 to 250 billion euros are being lost from public finances because of tax evasion in the internal market. these billions stolen are so many public investments less, so many fewer schools, so many fewer public services, so many social needs that remain unanswered and, of course, often, to compensate, so many taxes that increase and that affect the most honest and modest taxpayers, who do not have the leisure to engage in tax evasion and tax shopping. i am pleased to see that on the vat issue there is a broad consensus in this parliament to put an end to fraud and to practices which exploit the fragility of the transitional system put in place since 1993. and the most important tax fraud - we all know this from the liechtenstein scandal - is also that of these big savers who put considerable sums of money in third countries, often tax havens, to escape taxation. the european union therefore has an instrument to combat such fraud: the directive on taxation of savings income. there are, however, - and mrs bowles has pointed out - too many loopholes in this directive, it only covers savings income in the form of interest from individuals. it is therefore far too easy today to create a legal entity artificially, sometimes with only one partner or shareholder or to invent financial income that is not strictly speaking interest, in order to evade taxation. it is therefore absolutely necessary to extend the scope of this directive - this is a moral imperative - as the draft report proposes, so that at least tax evasion is less easy. i must say that i am surprised and disappointed by the epp amendment which, through both its timidity and its orientation, ultimately proposes that nothing should change and that the current situation regarding tax evasion should be maintained. we shall take these positions to the european public, and in particular to the german public, and we shall see how the german and european public will judge the choices made here. i have heard great statements in the media, particularly in the other side of the rhine, on this question of tax evasion. here, in the silence of the european parliament, other choices are being made. i hope that the citizens of europe will be the judges.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr xavier bertrand, mr president of the commission, mr špidla, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats is very committed to the defence of social justice. the defence of european social models in the face of globalisation is one of our priorities. and for that reason, as president of the epp group, i welcome the commission's proposal for the new social package. this text provides a number of solutions to fundamental issues for our societies such as demographic change, globalisation and the fight against poverty. in my group's view, the commission should go further and take more concrete measures. the fight against poverty, the integration of excluded groups into the labour market, the promotion of workers' mobility and the improvement of their training are areas which require a specific programme, concrete measures and a strong commitment on the part of the european union and its member states. demographic change is a major challenge for our economies. older workers, women, young people, especially people with disabilities and, in general, all those who have been excluded from the labour market for a long time must be given a second chance. we must therefore encourage and promote the integration and reintegration of these people into the labour market. to this end, we expect concrete measures to be taken to promote lifelong learning. for those integrated into the labour market, inequalities persist. we are very concerned about the persistence of the gender pay gap. this is something that should no longer exist in europe in 2008. in the same way, work and family life must be reconciled, with the creation of appropriate reception structures. we also call on the commission and the council to take concrete measures in this area. my group is opposed to any form of discrimination. we therefore support the commission's objective of filling the legal gaps that persist in the current legislation in this area. in particular, the fight against discrimination against disabled people must be strengthened. ladies and gentlemen, in order to defend social models in this era of globalisation, we believe that the most effective tool at our disposal is economic growth. but we are convinced that, in order to achieve the objectives set by the lisbon strategy, we must address the problem through enterprises, because they are the fundamental levers of job creation. we need to improve the image of entrepreneurship in europe and encourage young people to start their own businesses. we must also promote a competitive environment for our businesses, but we must in particular support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the key players in job creation. in this context, we call on all the actors concerned to develop the application of flexicurity in europe. the concept of flexicurity has proved its effectiveness in the countries that have implemented it. it gives companies the flexibility they need to compete in the global marketplace while protecting workers. i welcome the commission's intention to promote social dialogue. we believe that a partnership based on trust within companies is a key element in the success of companies in the market. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under the present treaties the social question remains the main competence of the member states. this can and must change, but until then we must respect the principle of subsidiarity. we have no choice. and this must not prevent the commission, and i urge it to do so, from carrying out impact studies, from denouncing inequalities in order to assess the social consequences of any new legislative proposal. the social and societal challenges we face are enormous: we need to reform our economies, to adapt our economies to be more competitive, to make them less exclusive. there will be no social progress without an economy, but there will be no competitive economy without social progress. the epp-ed group is more determined than ever to achieve results on these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, it is customary in this house to be bombarded with words on the social front. unfortunately, the european social model is no longer anything but a myth, because the social reality in our country, france, in particular, and in my region, nord-pas-de-calais, in particular, is a state of social regression, social anxiety, social precariousness, mass unemployment and a high rate of childlessness, which is also quite worrying and massive. we reason as if the social model of the 1960s still existed, that is, a model of social financing based on full employment and supported by a large working population. for the last 30 years we have been dealing with mass unemployment and we have been experiencing a considerable birth rate, which in the end, after the baby boom, has led to the grandfather boom, a state of financial shock to our pension system. let us stop thinking that we must defend the european social model, but let us prepare ourselves to reorganise the european social model and, in the light of the economic and historical analysis we are making, this must be applied from two notions: firstly, the establishment of a family policy to recover the birth rate, otherwise we will be unable, in the coming decades, to finance our pension system and, secondly, the implementation of a policy to recover the internal market and return to employment. to regain the internal market within the european union we will have to reindustrialise and unfortunately, if we continue to submit to the quasi-religious dogma of free trade and wild liberalism, we will not be able to do what is necessary so that our companies are able to be competitive in our own internal market. that is why we must in future focus our commitment and our demand for social reconquest on this notion of national and community preference and national and community protection.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this new social agenda is late and is a weak response to the precariousness, inequalities and effects of the economic crisis which are now affecting workers and many of our fellow citizens in europe. more than 70 million people are living in poverty, and even where unemployment is falling, precariousness is increasing and atypical contracts are being created, there is a real need for a strong social base, for a europe that protects. this is one of the themes of the french presidency of the european union. and you told us, mr minister, that 2008 was to be the year of the return, of the revival of social europe. unfortunately, your presidency has not made the question of the social dimension one of the four priorities of its presidency. we are now at the end of the european commission's mandate and we have proposals, some of which, it must be admitted, finally respond to the demands of the european parliament, and in particular of our group: a genuine directive against discrimination which covers all areas and not just disability; the putting on the agenda - finally - of the strengthening, of the revision of the directive on european works councils, provisions to ensure that our principles and the legislation already in place on equal pay between men and women are actually applied in the member states. but what shortcomings, what gaps, in this new social agenda! and i will mention two main ones. one is the response to the recent judgments of the court of justice laval, rüffert, viking which called into question the fight against social dumping within the european union. we believe that it is not enough, as the commission's communication proposes, to say that the commission will provide legal explanations, interpretative clauses concerning this directive, but that we must take note of the fact - and we have organised hearings in this parliament under the auspices of the committee on employment and social affairs - that there are flaws in the directive and that union legislation must make it clear, in favour of a revision of the directive on the posting of workers, that in no case can the union's economic freedoms, the freedom to establish companies, play against the fundamental rights of workers, against their right to collective bargaining, against their health rights, against their right to strike, if necessary, to defend their interests. we therefore call for a revision of this directive to be put on the agenda and for a social safeguard clause to be introduced to ensure that no future directive, no eu policy, no treaty principle can be used to the detriment of workers' rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, mr bertrand, you told us that social services of general interest, that missions of general interest, should be promoted for the sake of the balance of our social model. there is no proposal for a directive on services of general economic interest. we cannot properly protect social services of general interest, implement the provisions of article 14 of the lisbon treaty, which provides for the possibility of adopting a provision, if the council does not address a request to the commission and if the commission does not use its right of initiative so that we can finally debate a legal framework that protects public service missions, that guarantees the autonomy of local authorities, in particular for their local public services, and that assures us that, from now on, the judgments of the court of justice will not call into question this fundamental element of the european social model and that citizens will not have the feeling, indeed, as mr schulz said, that europe is playing against their social model, but on the contrary that the commission and the european institutions are protecting their social model.
mr president, even if the commission has done a very good job of communicating, by presenting, as has been said, very different texts of very different nature and quality, it has at last used its right of initiative on important subjects and is moving in the right direction, and we should be pleased about that. the ball is now in our court and perhaps especially in the council's. everyone knows that parliament will be demanding and will seek to develop innovative texts, responding to the needs of the european citizens. will the council do the same? we know that can be doubted. i hope they can hear you, minister. the advertising effect of ambiguous and non-binding texts seriously undermines the credibility of our action. consider three of the many. i have long been one of those who have called for a comprehensive directive to combat all forms of discrimination. we will have to rely on the lynne report of may 2008, which is much more ambitious than the commission's proposal. the second example is the works councils. we will be careful to clarify their transnational competences. the consultation of the social partners is becoming increasingly crucial in the case of restructuring in companies operating in several eu countries. we will ensure that employees can be consulted before restructuring takes place and that the works councils have the means to decide on often very technical matters. third example: social services of general interest. we have wasted enough time on this. operators are in the dark. legal uncertainty is at its highest and is detrimental to the quality of services which are absolutely necessary for the cohesion of our societies. yet we are preparing to lose another year. this is not responsible. this shows, in my view, that the commission's work, which seems to be broad and covers many areas of action, is inadequate because it deliberately leaves out essential points. i would like to conclude with a request: the social package must be only a step. i am convinced that the open method of coordination has reached its limits in a number of areas. we must decide to move towards greater cooperation but also towards greater harmonization as soon as possible.
mr president, after 51 years of existence, the institutions of the union are discovering the social dimension. relative discovery because the social dimension is absent from the priorities of the french presidency; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the european parliament has been the driving force behind the discovery of the european social model, under pressure from the irish, dutch and french 'no's' and the many social movements in the union which have been calling for wage reforms. yes, the commission and the majority of this parliament are forced to admit that the union is not only populated by shareholders and consumers, but also by employees, whose work creates european wealth. the commission is thus forced to exhume the directive on european works councils: the effort is worthwhile but the content is weak. the european works councils must become a true place of social democracy, giving employees the necessary powers of intervention in the strategic choices of companies. yes, europe urgently needs genuine social democracy to prevent the wrong moves, such as the increase in working time to almost 70 hours a week. so for the employees, let's go faster, much faster.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the long and lively debates we had on the european funds for globalisation are still ringing in my ears. our colleague, mrs bachelot, with whom i have worked, as well as my colleague mr cottigny, on this fund, has led us to take extremely important decisions. and what do we see today? only 4% of the planned aid was used in 2007 for this european fund. commissioner, you have already said and written that you are considering revising the criteria. is this revision of the criteria commensurate with the problems raised? what the hell! when 96% of this aid is not used up, the fundamental question must be asked: is the objective we were pursuing when we adopted this decision on the european globalisation fund well defined in terms of the object itself? we are facing demographic challenges, as you mentioned, and we are facing many economic challenges, given the global aspect, the technological aspects. i would ask you, commissioner, to review not only the criteria but also the very purpose of our interventions in this globalisation fund.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a passionate debate, but it is a debate on social europe, which is already bringing us together by this debate. the debate also shows how difficult it is today to separate the treatment of social questions at community level from national political debates. this is a sign, in a way, that european integration is also progressing. the presidency has been challenged by some. i shall not go into the various aspects of this debate, i am not here to argue, i am here, like you, to promote social europe. is social europe a priority for the french presidency? question that's been asked. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now know that the conditions are better suited to achieve these results, which are positive and positive for social europe. i am a firm believer in pragmatism. so, on these various subjects, president nicolas sarkozy recalled it in his speech to parliament, works councils, interim in particular, we have committed ourselves, for example, to bring the first to fruition, the second is now in the hands of parliament, as i have indicated. and everyone, again, has to take full responsibility. i shall not go back to questions such as: could the government, when it belongs to the epp, be more social than another? i would simply like to say that in france i am the minister for labour and solidarity. because if you want to share wealth, you have to have created it first. and how do we create them? through work. this is how wealth is created. i would also not like to recall that at the time, in 1993, when the famous working time directive was introduced, it was a socialist government in france and a socialist minister, mrs aubry, who therefore defended this directive which contained the opt-out. so what is being done today, in particular, with regard to this famous directive? let us look at the facts: does this directive, yes or no, bring about an improvement over the present situation where we are in a veritable no man's land beyond 48 hours? everyone knows it in their hearts. but it is only important to say that, if this directive does not necessarily correspond to the original idea of 1993, which was the disappearance of the opt-out, it now provides additional framework and guarantees compared to the situation not of yesterday but of today. do we have the right to say that? of course i do, because i believe in the virtues of pedagogy in public debate and in political debate. either the opt-out continues to spread, or it is actually framed because we now know that the problems of childcare time pose important problems due, in particular, to the existing case law. or we can be pragmatic, consider it a step forward and accept a revision which already solves a number of problems and improves a situation, even if today's result does not necessarily correspond to the vision of everyone and i am well placed to understand this position. the question now is the court's judgments. the point is not to pass judgment on judgment, far from it. but it is precisely in the light of the court's judgments that we must look at the situation that has now been created. what is the new legal situation? and it is necessary that the states concerned should first express their views on this point. i had this discussion with my counterparts. the social partners must also have a say in this matter, and not necessarily separately. together, it would be much better, so that we can draw all the conclusions. the presidency will therefore be addressing this debate without any priorities. should the directive be revised? i have heard it on several occasions and not just in this chamber. the answer to that question, in my view, must come at the end of the debate and not necessarily at the beginning of it. or we have a priori, which i don't. as regards social services of general interest, i think all the member states are keen to maintain the organization of the specific tasks of services of general interest in each country. but let us admit that there are differences of opinion on what needs to be done at community level. some people think that subsidiarity is the only right answer, others that a community legal framework is needed. this debate obviously cannot be settled immediately. our proposal for a roadmap with the commission aims to ensure that these issues are dealt with in practice within the time limits set out in the union's agenda. many other interesting topics were discussed. the presidency has committed itself to making progress on the new directive on combating discrimination. the commission has already made a number of proposals. so i've heard, on several occasions, the term availability. this is good, because it takes availability to enable efficiency. we have to look at things clearly today. is social europe capable of moving forward or not? i think the answer is clear, yes, and we must move forward with social europe. is 2008 already here? yes, i agree. is it too late? no, you can't! it's never too late. do we want to move forward? apparently so. but the question is: are we moving social europe forward together? so, ladies and gentlemen, let us all take our responsibilities!
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that the depth and passion of the debate have clearly shown that social europe is on the move again. the debate has covered a number of detailed issues and i do not think it is necessary to respond to them in detail, because there will be an opportunity in the next negotiations to deepen the argumentation, to find the appropriate balance. but let me respond to some things in a more general way. firstly, this agenda, because of its breadth, considers the social agenda and social policy as an expression of a comprehensive policy approach and as the result of an integrated approach in a number of policies. it is a certain notion of the mainstream, that is, not a social policy confined somewhere on the periphery, with a number of undoubtedly interesting and technical aspects, but still in a way marginalized. this agenda has placed social policy at the heart of european policy. of course, the question arose whether this agenda, which i think should be rejected in all seriousness, does not have some simple technical instrumental political interest. it doesn't, because the approach to it was formulated many years ago. it is also in a number of european commission documents which have been discussed by parliament. so it's not related to any major event, like the irish referendum. among other things, this agenda also shows that the commission is determined and has proposed the agenda as a procedure that seeks to use all the instruments available to the european commission and at european level, legislation, the open method of coordination and all other methods. it therefore contains not only legislative proposals but also, of course, draft communications and other documents. i would like to stress that this agenda is specific within the possibilities that are within the european commission's control. the individual proposals will undoubtedly be debated in parliament, and will certainly be amended on many occasions, but they are nevertheless concrete proposals that can be discussed. the debate also raised the argument, albeit partial, and i think it is necessary to respond to it, that the proposals which are aimed at the health sector are a kind of back door to the bolkenstein directive on health care. it's not like that. these proposals are not designed to provide free services but to facilitate access to healthcare for europeans. there are undoubtedly many very delicate aspects to these proposals and it is clear that they will be seriously and deeply discussed, but nevertheless their basic trend and result will be to improve health care for european citizens. the other idea that i would like to stress very much is the idea of fighting poverty. the fight against poverty is clearly formulated and the debate raised a very clear question: 'by what methods?' the agenda does not assume that there is a single effective method to combat poverty, but it intends to attack poverty from a number of aspects. trying to reduce early school leaving is a fight against poverty. the effort to open up the space for lifelong learning is a fight against poverty. the clearly formulated intention that equity and social efficiency should be at the forefront of pension systems is also a fight against poverty. the issue of discrimination and anti-discrimination directives are also an issue of fighting poverty, because opening up access to people who are disabled, preventing discrimination against people who have aged in service, etc. are simultaneously fighting poverty. the question of equal opportunities for men and women was also open. i would point out that other directives cover equal opportunities for men and women and, in this respect, it was not necessarily necessary to include explicitly equality between men and women in the proposed directive. there was also a debate on the ilo conventions. i want to make it clear that this agenda clearly demonstrates the strong commitment of the commission and europe to the concept of decent work at global level. as well as a directive to implement the social partners' agreement in the maritime field, it is a clear approach to how europe views the various ilo conventions. in all the documents, european states are called upon to ratify as quickly as possible the overall package of documents they represent. ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been deep and at times hard. i think this is a debate that is on par with the importance of european social policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession, somewhere in europe. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, by the co-decision procedure, at first reading the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 1719/2006/ec establishing the 'youth in action' programme for the period 2007-2013 on the basis of the report by my greek colleague katerina batzeli. i welcome and support the amendments which replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the european commission to inform the european parliament and the member states without delay of all measures taken to implement the decision without the assistance of a committee in order to allow for a faster and more effective implementation of selection decisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, at first reading by the co-decision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1855/2006/ec establishing the 'culture' programme (2007-2013) on the basis of the report by my greek colleague katerina batzeli. i welcome and support the amendments which replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the european commission to inform the european parliament and the member states without delay of all measures taken to implement the decision without the assistance of a committee in order to allow for a faster and more effective implementation of selection decisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, on first reading by codecision, the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 1904/2006/ec establishing the 'europe for citizens' programme to promote active european citizenship for the period 2007-2013, on the basis of the report by my greek colleague katerina batzeli. i welcome and support the amendments which replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the european commission to inform the european parliament and the member states without delay of all measures taken to implement the decision without the assistance of a committee in order to allow for a faster and more effective implementation of selection decisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, by the co-decision procedure, at first reading the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1720/2006/ec establishing an action programme in the field of lifelong learning, on the basis of the report by my greek colleague katerina batzeli. i welcome and support the amendments which replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the european commission to inform the european parliament and the member states without delay of all measures taken to implement the decision without the assistance of a committee in order to allow for a faster and more effective implementation of selection decisions.
in writing. following the referendum held in montenegro on 21 may 2006 on the country's independence, in which the majority of voters (55.4%) voted in favour of montenegro's independence, the montenegrin parliament proclaimed montenegro's full independence under international law on 3 june 2006. serbia recognized montenegro's independence, and on 5 june 2006, the serbian parliament adopted a decision defining serbia as the successor state to the state union of serbia and montenegro which was the new name of the federal republic of yugoslavia under the new constitutional charter of 4 february 2003. it is in this context that i voted for the european parliament's legislative resolution approving as it stands, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council decision establishing separate responsibility for montenegro and reducing proportionately the responsibility of serbia for the long-term loans granted by the community to the state union of serbia and montenegro (former federal republic of yugoslavia).
in writing. i voted, on the basis of the report by my distinguished british colleague neil parish, for the legislative resolution approving, as it stands, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council regulation amending the council regulation of june 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products. normally, the council regulation of 28 june 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products was to be applied compulsorily as from 1 january 2009. the purpose of this proposal is to postpone the mandatory use of the eu logo pending the creation of a new logo to help avoid confusion in the minds of consumers following a rapid change of eu logos and to avoid an additional financial burden for operators who are required to change their packaging and printing within a very short time. the proposal is therefore to defer the mandatory use of the eu logo until 30 june 2010.
in writing. the european parliament has just delivered its opinion in accordance with the agreement on fisheries in the southern indian ocean, signed by the european community in 2006. the community had fishing interests in the area and, as a result of the presence of réunion, was obliged to cooperate with the other parties involved in the management and conservation of the resources of this area under the united nations convention on the law of the sea. this new regional fisheries organisation establishes a specific institutional framework, the centrepiece of which is the standing scientific committee. the main task of the centre is to provide a scientific assessment of fisheries resources and the impact of fishing on the marine environment, taking into account the environmental characteristics of the area. the agreement also encourages cooperation in the field of scientific research. on the basis of these scientific recommendations, the parties will be fully able to develop conservation and management measures that are best suited to address the challenges facing the area. this agreement is a real step forward in the promotion of fisheries resources and sustainable development.
in writing. i voted for the european parliament resolution based on the report by my colleague kyösti virrankoski on draft amending budget no 5 to the 2008 budget (dar no 5/2008) which covers the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties, agricultural duties and sugar levies), vat and gni bases and the budgeting of the corresponding uk corrections and their financing, which have the effect of changing the distribution of their own resources contributions to the eu budget between member states.
in writing. i voted the legislative resolution approving, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the initiative of several member states to strengthen the european judicial network on the basis of the report of my german colleague sylvia-yvonne kaufmann and inviting, first of all, both the council and the commission to deal with any subsequent proposal to amend the text of the initiative as a matter of priority under the urgency procedure, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon and as soon as it enters into force. i support the strengthening of the data protection component and the fact that the contact points of the judicial network inform the national members of eurojust of a number of information. in particular, i welcome the reference to the future framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution, based on the report of my portuguese colleague armando frança, supporting the initiative of several member states (the republic of slovenia, the french republic, the czech republic, the kingdom of sweden, the slovak republic, the united kingdom and the federal republic of germany) and amending a series of framework decisions (2002/584/jha on the european arrest warrant, 2005/214/jha on the mutual recognition of financial penalties, 2006/783/jha on the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders and 2008/.../jha on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters) to provide for cases of enforcement of default decisions. i support the strengthening of the 'rights of persons found guilty by default' component of the initiative, by proposing a set of procedural safeguards and seeking to eliminate divergent approaches to the grounds for 'non-recognition' of the decisions concerned.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my slovenian colleague, mr mihael brejc, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, by the co-decision procedure, at first reading the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 562/2006 as regards the use of the visa information system (vis) in the framework of the schengen borders code. given the expectations of european citizens in terms of internal security, i fully support the amendments to the schengen borders code that are necessary to ensure the effective use of the visa information system (vis) at external borders. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to lay down common rules on the obligation to use the vis (i.e. a systematic search using the visa sticker number in combination with the verification of fingerprints) at external borders and, therefore, to continue the development of integrated border management in the european union.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my romanian colleague, renate weber, i voted for the european parliament's legislative resolution supporting the initiative of several member states (belgium, the czech republic, estonia, spain, france, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, austria, poland, portugal, slovenia, slovakia and sweden) to strengthen eurojust. i support the strengthening of the data protection component of the proposal and the fact that the european parliament is better informed to better control the tasks and missions of eurojust which was established in 2002 as a body of the european union with legal personality to promote and improve coordination and cooperation between the competent judicial authorities of the member states. the experience gained by eurojust shows that its operational efficiency must be enhanced, in particular by ensuring that the status of its national members is approximated. i also support the emergency coordination unit, the national coordination systems, partnerships with the other community instruments for security and protection (europol, frontex, olaf) and the possibility for eurojust to second liaison magistrates to third countries.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by mrs lambert on the evaluation of the dublin system. the report rightly points out that, on the whole, the objectives of the system have been largely achieved, but that due to the lack of precise data it has not been possible to assess the cost of the system. some concerns remain, both in terms of practical application and the effectiveness of the system. the report opens the debate on the future of the european common asylum policy which was launched in june 2007 with the publication of the green paper. the report stresses that the following aspects of the system need to be clarified or modified: applicants must be given all relevant information on the dublin system in a language they understand and have access to legal aid throughout the procedure, and must have a right of appeal against any transfer decision; the criteria for determining the age of minors should be harmonised; mechanisms should be designed to freeze transfers to states that are clearly not respecting the rights of applicants.
in writing. the main purpose of this text, under the guise of strengthening eurojust's operational capacity in the fight against various forms of crime, is to satisfy the obsessive political correctness of the thought police. the objective of monitoring all speech under threat of punishment, whether written or spoken in meetings, is hardly veiled. indeed, different voices have already been raised in the european parliament in order to adopt a framework directive aimed at penalizing alleged racism and xenophobia and creating a single european prosecutor's office for its rapid transposition, that is to say a new torquemada of the union's 'political correctness'. unfortunately, the more decision-making power the european parliament, the self-proclaimed temple of democracy, acquires, the more fundamental freedoms, including the freedoms of research, opinion and expression, are trampled on. in reality, this totalitarian europe is far more dangerous than the monsters it claims to be fighting. the main aim of the supporters of the euro-globalist and immigrationist ideology is to eliminate their troublesome opponents by adopting repressive european criminal legislation. we do not accept that.
in writing. i voted for the report by my british colleague jean lambert on the 'dublin system' and welcomed the work done by the rapporteur for our epp group, my friend patrick gaubert. this mechanism aims to determine the member state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged by a third-country national in the territory of one of the eu member states, norway or iceland. while, in general, the objectives of the dublin system, including the establishment of a clear and viable mechanism for determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application, have been largely achieved. but, beyond the unassessed cost, there are still problems with the efficiency of the system and practical applications. all of this shows the urgency of a european immigration and asylum policy and i welcome the work of the current president of the relevant council, my friend mr brice hortefeux, minister of immigration, integration, national identity and solidarity development of the french republic, who has just chaired the european ministerial conference on asylum law in paris on 8 and 9 september 2008.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the own-initiative report by my british colleague sharon bowles on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against tax fraud, in response to a commission communication on the same subject. tax revenue, i.e. the total amount of compulsory taxes and social contributions, represented 39.3% of gdp in the european union in 2004, or €4.1 trillion. very few estimates are available as to the extent of uncollected taxes due to tax evasion, which is estimated to be around 2 to 2.5% of gdp. while taxation is a matter of national competence, tax evasion constitutes an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal market in so far as it leads to distortions of competition between taxpayers. it is clear that the fight against tax evasion has a european dimension, particularly at international level, through the phenomenon of economic globalisation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs bowles' report is typical of this house: it proposes solutions to problems which would not exist without brussels europe, solutions which would only aggravate these problems or create new ones. in this case, the solutions proposed to combat tax evasion consist in demanding taxation in the country of origin, with the creation of a clearing house which would make the tax revenues of the states dependent on transfers made by the other member states. the commission has also proposed that vat be charged at the rate of the importing member state (instead of the current exemption) or that the mechanism of self-liquidation be applied. if this were to be accepted, it would result in administrative and tax headaches for businesses. in addition, direct access to computer data on taxpayers in other member states would be generalised for tax administrations. taxation of savings and criminal law for fraud would be uniformised. a number of reduced vat rates would be abolished. all this shows that the real objective is not so much to combat fraud, which is a real and worrying problem, but to put an end to the fiscal sovereignty of the member states.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ministers and colleagues, the review of the framework we are considering must, if it is to be justified, bring tangible improvements for consumers in terms of prices, access and speed of data transfer and for businesses in terms of the prospect of fair competition and new investment and competitiveness. the term 'multiple actors' means divergent or even conflicting interests. i have taken care very early on to listen to all the views and to send out quick and reliable signals in order to establish or restore the confidence of businesses and consumers. electronic communications are a real opportunity for european growth. the sector accounts for 3% of european gdp. the full benefits of this potential in the union in terms of investment and the development of services are yet to be realised. it goes through the competition, but it doesn't stop there. it is a question of creating the conditions for sustainable and responsible development, in other words, an ecosystem of this knowledge economy that we all want. we must now consider ict as a resource in its own right. it is therefore a public/private issue which requires flexible regulation and accountability for all stakeholders through cooperation between regulators and the commission, as between operators and customers by contract. i have identified four pillars that i have set out to strengthen: service to the consumer, whether in terms of access through more ambitious territorial deployment fair price or quality; sustained industrial activity to ensure employment and innovation, technological progress also being a factor in lowering prices; the competitiveness of our companies, large and small, which guarantees sustainable competition in our territories and the necessary investments, particularly in fibre, to strengthen our position on the world stage; and finally, legal certainty, i.e. the reliability of the system through the accountability of the actors and their mutual cooperation, in particular between the regulators themselves, but also with the commission. i was pleased to see that on this basis the itre committee accepted my compromise proposals, often by a large majority, and i thank my colleagues for their great availability, despite sometimes short deadlines, but which now allow us to be in time to meet the objective of renewing this regulation before the end of the mandate. this result is collective. i believe that the sector has responded rather positively to these guidelines and i hope that they will inspire our partners in the council as well. i listened carefully to the ministers and their assessments, as well as to the commissioner, and i thank them for their informed and positive opinions, for the most part. to return to the points which are still under debate, let us turn to the question of remedies. without prejudice to the competence of national regulators, a consensus has emerged in favour of a more consistent application of remedies at union level. however, the veto on the remedies proposed by the commission was unanimously or almost unanimously against it. in the mechanism i have provided, each entity has its proper place: the commission may raise doubts about a remedy but cannot completely challenge it unless bert also issues a negative opinion. conversely, in the event of functional separation, the commission and bert must agree on both sides. in this context, this separation remains a tangible threat, but it cannot be taken lightly. as regards spectrum, our proposals are aimed at increasing the flexibility of the management of this scarce resource, but in a gradual and proportionate manner, alongside the introduction of elements to optimise this management. the first step for us is a genuine european spectrum policy which can be set up as soon as the package is adopted at a major conference at the beginning of the next term. the new networks: they were absent from the commission's proposal, or not sufficiently mentioned, even though europe is already engaged in this technological revolution. we felt it was essential to give member states and regulators the guidance and tools to encourage investment and, if necessary, to guide deployment now. as such, our proposals were validated by a panel of recognized experts just before the summer holidays. a final problem has emerged recently, namely the protection of intellectual property. i regret that this debate has interfered so much with the examination of the package, and i do not think that this is the place to go into the mechanisms for strictly enforcing intellectual property. i simply want to say that i hope that we can conclude the examination of this package in a calm manner, without being disturbed by this question, which is important, since the creative content is the subject of a commission communication. the other points i shall deal with in the two minutes i have left to conclude.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after months of discussions, which are still not concluded, i think i can say that thanks to the work of mr harbour and the fictitious rapporteur, we have reached compromises which are entirely in the interests of consumers. the commission has also proposed that the number portability scheme be extended to cover the whole of the european union, including the united kingdom, and that the number portability scheme be extended to cover the whole of the european union. in the field of protection, the general consumer protection regulation will apply to the telecommunications sector, cost control mechanisms are provided for and extrajudicial redress procedures in case of dispute are improved. another very important point concerns access to emergency services and the location of the call, which must be available in a reliable way, whatever the technology used. privacy was also a priority, as was child protection, with access providers having to provide free parental control software to customers. all these advances had to be made for the greatest number. many measures therefore concern equal access for disabled users, low-income people and smes. the report also stresses the need to extend the scope of the universal service, particularly to broadband, and the inclusion of this as one of the priorities of the french presidency is a very good thing. i would now like to turn to the issue of content and copyright, which has tended to overshadow the rest of the improvements contained in this text. our aim has always been to provide consumers with general information on copyright compliance, as the commission's original proposal had called for. until the final vote, we will work to improve the wording of the compromises, ensuring that the principle of neutrality of access to content is respected. some of the amendments adopted in the 'privacy' directive are, however, really problematic and we will make sure that they are removed. i would like to thank my colleagues again and i look forward to more specific proposals from the presidency to improve this text further by the next plenary session.
madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work has been remarkable. the result achieved by our committees is balanced and, mr president-in-office of the council, you were right to take full account of it and i would simply like to congratulate my colleagues mrs catherine trautmann, mrs pilar del castillo and mr malcolm harbour on their work. i am all the more comfortable telling catherine trautmann that i do not agree with her when she wants to exclude all reference to intellectual property. beyond the platforms and channels we are talking about, especially in the text for which she is responsible, what is important to everyone is what these platforms and channels allow to know. what they allow access to, i.e. the contents. and our colleagues from guardans, medina and mavrommatis have said it very well, and i support them. there were two references in the commission's text, and it would have been better to have kept them. today's discussion is about a reference to the 2001 and 2004 copyright and cooperation between stakeholders directives. what's the point? to promote legal offers, that is, content that allows us to establish the prosperity of our industry and our cultural diversity. in an offensive against these texts, some of which i have heard echoing here on these benches, a scarecrow was made, for example, of olive agreements. but the model we have to follow is the memorandum of understanding adopted on 24 july by the british government, ofcom and the various stakeholders. as far as i know they are not advocates of bureaucracy and dictatorship on the internet. it is a question of not preventing the laws of our states from being applied, of ensuring that fundamental rights are reconciled and of not preventing what can put the new technology, the new economy, at the service of our cultural diversity, our proactive industries, the intelligence and talent of europeans who are our best weapon and our best asset in global competition.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs trautmann, mrs pilar del castillo and mrs toia and mr harbour on the quality of the work they have done. taking full advantage of the digital dividend? that's the question. digital broadcasting is and will be freeing up frequencies. i take care to use the two tenses of the verb liberate to remind you that this evolution will not take place in an instant, in the snap of a finger, which was often forgotten in the reasoning of actors. the amount of investment is likely to frighten many investors before they can recover the 250 billion. the diffusion of these constraints in our policies must therefore be taken into account. i take this short speaking time to remind you of the urgent need to define a european frequency policy in which parliament will be a major player, involved, aware of the constraints of the physics of electromagnetic waves, of frequency spectrum management, respectful of the standardisation bodies, in order to be able to optimise this scarce resource with the general interest of our fellow european citizens always in mind. i would also like to remind the commissioner that the deployment of fibre optic networks, to use jean cocteau's phrase, needs great declarations of love, but it needs acts of love, with european funding in the budget to make them a reality, to make these broadband networks a reality and thus overcome the digital divide in the union's territories.
the rapporteur. - madam president, at the end of this debate, i would like to thank the council, and the commissioner, for the attentive listening which they have shown and which has enabled them to see the very high degree of convergence of views, the great consistency of our parliament on the telecommunications package. nothing is more common than a cell phone, than a television, than the ability to communicate. the single act had made freedom, the free movement of persons and goods, a fundamental right, a fundamental freedom. as regards communication, as our colleague mr paasilinna has just said, it is also a fundamental right and a means of giving a soul, an existence, a link in the european area. the telecommunications package must therefore be achieved and the right ambition must be set. i therefore urge the council not to go forward with a compromise or with a sense of compromise which would go too far in the direction of deconstructing the points of equilibrium we have reached. we feel that we already have among us, and thanks to my colleagues malcolm harbour, pilar del castillo, alexander alvaro, etc. - we cannot name them all - already done work of common reason and will. i would also like to say, since i was asked earlier by mr toubon, that i cannot be accused of not taking into account the support needed for creativity in europe. i believe that it is a genuine vehicle for innovation, for intellectual wealth and added value which is absolutely indispensable in today's world. but we also have to take into account the freedom we have to guarantee with our texts. we have voted extremely important texts on the protection of personal data, and we are the only ones in the world today to have done so. we must reconcile these two aspects. there is no contradiction. it is the same ambition, to consecrate what is within the freedom of creation as well as what is within the freedom of each individual. it is in this spirit that we shall continue to improve our proposals.
in writing. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union. however, the figures in the 2008 report show that inequality is still high. the pay gap has remained at 15% since 2003. in view of this situation, i believe it is necessary to strengthen european legislation by, for example, requiring employers to carry out wage audits to close the pay gap. it is also important to look at the particular situation of women in rural areas who are never declared as 'active' in the official labour market. these women, who do work because they help their husbands in the family business, face many financial and legal difficulties in accessing pensions or social security, as a result of the lack of a clear occupational status. i will support any initiative to improve the situation of those affected. finally, i welcome the proposed measures to improve women's access to sexual and reproductive health services. this access is the indispensable condition for the exercise of their freedom.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is not as trivial as the late hour of debate might suggest, and i would like to thank mrs svensson for her work and cooperation. marketing and advertising are ubiquitous in our societies and contribute to the creation of social constructs with, sometimes, negative consequences of discrimination or of being locked into reductive representations of gender. advertising is also a creative space and such representations are sometimes used deliberately in a humorous fashion. but advertisers must not forget that they have an important educational role, that it is necessary to develop the critical sense of young people, in particular in order to eliminate all forms of discrimination through sometimes degrading images based on sex and which would undermine the dignity of the individual. the aim of this report is not to challenge editorial or creative freedom but to encourage those involved in this sector to improve existing self-regulatory systems, to cooperate with the competent authorities to improve codes of good practice and to become aware of their responsibilities, not only in relation to gender equality but also in terms of physical and mental health, which is sometimes threatened by pressures linked to standards of beauty to be achieved. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the many deletion amendments so as not to deprive this text of all its substance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first congratulate our rapporteur, mrs sartori, and the fictitious rapporteurs of the other groups. i think that our work, which was not easy, with a text of 2,000 pages, has made real progress. i shall speak first on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, for which i was rapporteur, and then on behalf of my group. the committee on industry adopted a number of amendments, the main ones of which i shall mention briefly. the aim was to take account of the situation of smes, which had expressed their interest in this matter during the commission's preparatory consultation. of 360 companies, 45% of those with fewer than 250 employees responded to the online consultation launched by the commission between 21 august and 21 october 2006. our committee would like to emphasize that, in addition to the information requirement, the ghs also aims to protect consumers and the environment. our committee has called on the member states to put in place a procedure which helps all suppliers, particularly smes, in certain production sectors, to determine the appropriate classification, labelling and packaging of these substances and mixtures. our committee has also been concerned with consistency with reach and has therefore tabled amendments relating to tonnage. finally, in addition to the desire to avoid duplication of legislation on packaging, our committee felt that it was necessary to provide for the possibility of disputes concerning the interpretation of the requirements of the regulation, in this case between the supplier and a member state, and the need for a procedure to ensure a harmonised classification. i come to my role as the fictional rapporteur for the adle. here are some of the principles that have guided our approach. we welcome this initiative. a global approach is entirely consistent with the objective of increased protection of health and the environment and the exchange of products. as the system is global, it is therefore important that the future regulation does not impose constraints on european companies to which their international competitors would not be subject. consistency with reach is desirable, both in terms of deadlines and in terms of tonnage approach or with regard to annexes and in particular annex 6. as regards the information available on the finished product, since the european commission has chosen to include the post-production segment, the quality and relevance of the information, not the quantity of information, should be our guiding principle. it seems important to our group to recognise the existence and value of other sources of information, notably ngos and industry, but also the importance of communication media such as the internet. confidentiality must also be maintained for certain data. finally, this legislation must not lead to an increase in animal testing. given the tight timetable and the complexity of the annexes, i would remind you that the members chose not to amend them. it was also intended to facilitate negotiations. this is an important concession from parliament. however, we have found in this case that one of these annexes poses a serious problem of immediate compliance and implementation for the industries concerned. annex 6 contains the list of substances which are subject to a harmonised classification at european level. a similar list already exists and is used by the industry to classify and label mixtures. however, during the transfer, changes were made to this list and it will have to be applied as soon as the ghs enters into force, whereas in the context of technical adaptations, this period is at least 18 months. many smes are affected by this change. it is essential to reach an agreement at first reading with the council and to complete the publication of the provisions as soon as possible, in order to allow time for industry and users to adapt to the new system and to make it operational by the end of 2008. i therefore ask the commission to propose a solution to give industry sufficient time to comply with the requirements of the regulation without disproportionate impact. following the trilogue, and apart from the problem of the annex, the text put to the vote seems to me to be good. let me highlight a few of the highlights. we have discussed pbts a lot: they are not covered by the un ghs. parliament has got the european commission to promote them for classification at the un level. parliament also succeeded in avoiding subdivision of the eye irritation category into subcategories, which would have led to an increase in the number of animal tests but without bringing any real added value. it should also be noted that human testing is prohibited for the purposes of this regulation alone, or that the un ghs is a dynamic process; a mechanism has been found for the european ghs to take account of changes in this system. confidentiality is also preserved in a balanced way. consistency with reach is guaranteed and parliament has accepted a zero threshold for inventory and notification, whereas initially we wanted a threshold of one tonne for certain categories of products. this zero threshold was accepted as substances and mixtures for r&d purposes only are excluded from the scope. i think we have done a good job and i wish for a good vote and a good implementation of the ghs.
madam president, there are already global accounting standards, global food standards from the codex alimentarius, global tax standards, the un model double taxation conventions. now comes the global standards for the labelling, classification, packaging and tonnage of chemicals. it is therefore a global legislation of the un economic and social council of 2002, the general harmonised system, which is here transposed into community law. this global harmonization is certainly useful for all - consumers, users, smes - but beyond these 2 000 pages and the procedures, annexes and lists, this regulation shows that the european standard is not sufficient in relation to the globalisation of problems. a planetary problem has a planetary solution. this means that british prime minister gordon brown is right: between the level of the nation-states and the level of the world, the european level is increasingly outdated, obsolete and, in the end, useless.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by anja weisgerber, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles and amending directive 2007/46/ec (com ((2007) 0593 c6-0342/2007 2007/0214 (cod)) (a6-0201/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to send a message of solidarity to the victims of hurricane gustav in the caribbean region. nearly 100 people were killed in the dominican republic, haiti, jamaica, the cayman islands, and cuba, and thousands more were left homeless. once again, the citizens of these developing nations with whom we have close ties through the cotonou agreement - the acp group of countries - are suffering the ravages of a new natural disaster in these regions. the european union know is closely monitoring the situation in the affected countries and is providing humanitarian aid. the european parliament will of course be closely monitoring the provision of humanitarian assistance to the countries of the region, particularly through the work of its committee on development and the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
you will understand that at the time of the vote i do not intend to reopen the debate. the socialist group thought it useful to explain its final vote by this remark, and i think everyone understood what it was about. there is no need to reopen the debate. we shall now vote on the joint motion for a resolution.
we continue with the voting hour.
mr president, we agree with the question mr lehne wants to put to the commission. it seems to us that the problems of contract law in europe must respond to two essential needs which go hand in hand. the first is clarity and simplicity, the second is security. we are glad that the rapporteur has taken account of the remarkable work of the comparative law society, and we hope that this work will be done with reference to our common heritage, the roman law. the rules of the autonomy of the will, the rules of validity, the vices of consent and publicity have been fixed in our civilization since the earliest times. it is to them that we must refer, to this common legal heritage of our civilization. we also want, for the sake of security of transactions, the unification of the rules on conflicts of laws to precede the unification of the substantive rules. the contracts concluded between persons in different places, and in particular the difficult question of the meeting of the offer, or the solicitation, and the acceptance, their modalities, their times, their proofs, all this can be the subject of unification without the need to unify the substantive rules of our various legislations.
in writing. mr president,by taking a clear-cut stance against russia and by involving europe in the resolution of the conflict, the european council and the majority of our assembly are embarking on a process as dangerous as the one which plunged our continent into the first world war. this process is the result of unprepared enlargements to the east which bring us closer to the conflict zones of the balkans and the caucasus. what will be the consequences of the accession of turkey, which borders iraq and iran? secondly, by recognising the independence of the serbian province of kosovo, our governments have opened a pandora's box, calling into question the territorial integrity not only of georgia but of most european states, both east and west. if, as the socialists, liberals, epp and greens want, georgia joins nato and joins a european union governed by the treaty of lisbon, our nations will come into conflict with russia. brussels europe is war. more than ever, in the face of the rise of china and the islamist threat, it is time to build another europe, the europe of sovereign countries, united to russia by the ties of civilisation that constitute our greek and christian heritage.
in writing. although imperfect, the resolution adopted by the european parliament deserves support as it reinforces the unity that europe has shown in resolving the situation in georgia. this complex crisis proves that it is urgent for the eu to build a genuine regional strategy towards the caucasus and russia. in this sense, the eu would be well advised to propose the holding of an international conference along the lines of the helsinki conference which gave birth to the osce in 1975. for the time being, the justified postponement of the negotiations on the strengthening of the eu-russia partnership should not obscure the need to build a balanced dialogue with russia on all issues of common interest, including democratic values and the energy dimension. in this respect, it is regrettable that the european parliament has not called more clearly for a review of our energy strategy, which, in addition to the announced diversification of our sources of supply, must include the development of renewable energies and energy savings.
in writing. i abstained on the european parliament resolution on the events in south ossetia and abkhazia, considering that it expressed an asymmetric and unbalanced political position vis-à-vis the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo within a normalized and democratized serbia. our parliament did not consider it appropriate to adopt such a resolution, in the name of the same principles of respect for international law and the integrity of national borders, which it invokes today to denounce moscow's recognition of the independence of ossetia and abkhazia. we all know the reason: what is rightly blamed today on russia, we did not want to blame on the western states, which were quick to recognize the unilateral and illegal declaration of independence of kosovo. while the military initiatives of the georgian government, like those of russia, must be firmly denounced and given way to diplomatic settlement and international mediation, the european union cannot afford to apply double standards to the many 'frozen conflicts' that have followed the cold war. nothing would be worse for the security of our continent if the union, in this part of the world as in others, confused alliances with allegiance to the bush administration's policy of 'inciting to crime'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the report by my spanish colleague, mrs iratxe garcia pérez, on equality between women and men. more than ever, we need to ensure that the issue has a two-fold dimension: ensuring equality in all policy areas (including the gender dimension) and implementing targeted measures to reduce discrimination against women through awareness-raising campaigns, the exchange of best practices, dialogue with citizens and public-private partnership initiatives. all the issues are important: wage inequality, participation in decision-making, including public decisions, reconciling work and private life, violence against women. gender equality is a major cause, well-committed, but which must receive the full attention of the political forces of progress and humanism and must be debated everywhere, including in inter-religious dialogues.
in writing. the european parliament must think that its members are suffering from alzheimer's disease! every year, at almost the same time, two different reports are produced: one on the state of human rights in the union and the other on equality between men and women. while the former may vary from year to year, albeit marginally, the latter is not. the previous reports on gender equality, kauppi in 2007 and estrela in 2006, are sufficient proof of this. the same challenges to be met, the same findings of inequality, the same recommendations. is that to say that there are no changes? no, because progress has been made at local, national and european level in terms of employment and women's participation in decision-making. but our eurocrats, pushed by the women's lobby, and i am thinking in particular of the powerful european women's lobby, are not satisfied with progress, they want and advocate ever greater equality, ever greater similarity between men and women, to the point of absurdity. we must not forget that the european community is a great example of a great community. i don't think he did. the war of the sexes doesn't have to happen.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights the role played by marketing and advertising in the emergence and persistence of gender stereotypes and proposes a number of ways to combat them. the introduction of awareness-raising measures, for example, seems to me to be a useful measure, especially in relation to children, who are a particularly vulnerable group. exposure from an early age to sexist images in the media is a major contributor to the reproduction of inequalities between women and men throughout life; hence the importance of developing in children a critical mind towards image and media in general. i also agree that marketing and advertising have a major responsibility in the increase in the number of people suffering from eating disorders and should therefore be more careful in their choice of female models. it is regrettable, however, that the proposal to explicitly incorporate the fight against sexist stereotypes in existing or future codes of good practice, by entrusting the professionals of the sectors concerned with the task of ensuring that the commitments made are respected, did not receive majority support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the russian foreign minister, mr lavrov, called mr kushner's "sick imagination" when he spoke of sanctions against russia. it is on this 'imagination' that i have been given to work during this report. and i would like to thank the commission and the council for being so helpful and so available. what is the debate today on sanctions? the first is the criticism of the use of punitive measures which would first of all punish the bad little ducks on the international stage, that is to say those who go against my strategic interests, politicized sanctions with double standards. the second criticism is that sanctions are not effective, mainly because they are perverse, always misused, and should therefore be done without. the aim of this report is not to advocate more sanctions or tougher sanctions or to abandon them. it is essential to look for all the conditions which make sanctions effective and the aim of this report is, indeed, to put them to rest. effective in what way? well, compared to the goal. and in the case of violations of human rights or international and humanitarian law, the aim must be to bring about a change in the behaviour of the entities concerned. this is the essential point. the sanction is neither a punishment nor the application of some kind of european penal code in international use. sanctions are a politically delicate instrument, and very demanding in its implementation, which aims to achieve a change in practices and behaviour. the eu is highly reluctant to sanction all-round, and to date has 31 sanctions regimes targeting third states or entities, mostly consisting of arms embargoes and targeted sanctions designed to have the maximum impact on the entities whose behaviour they are expected to influence, while limiting as much as possible the negative humanitarian impact. this is a rather positive observation, but i cannot say more at this stage. the eu is continuing its actions without ever producing comprehensive impact studies. we therefore have little to assess the capacity of our sanctions to resolve crises and promote human rights. the aim of this report is therefore to advocate a more transparent, more effective and therefore more credible european sanctions policy. the first essential task: to immerse oneself in an evaluation exercise. secondly, we must adopt a rigorous method, by means of preliminary studies of the specific situations requiring sanctions, in order to determine the most appropriate response to bring about change. in recent days you have been making a tour of the measures available to the union to put pressure on the russian authorities, for example. the positive aspect of the conclusions is that the stated objective is clear and can be practically assessed. it's about the six-point agreement. and in all circumstances it is essential that this be so. it is essential to include clear, precise criteria which must remain until the end, that is to say sometimes for a long time, the necessary and sufficient conditions for the lifting of sanctions. these criteria must therefore be realistic and objectively measurable. the arms embargo on china after tiananmen is perfectly legitimate, but it is not surprising that it has no positive effect, since the european union has not made its lifting conditional on any specific demand. too often, sanctions policy is approximate and flexible, depending on the political contingencies of the most influential member states or the commercial or geopolitical importance of the entities targeted. that is why, in order to give credibility to the union's policy, i am proposing the creation of a network of independent experts to assist the commission in the difficult work it is carrying out, under very difficult conditions, since it has virtually no resources to do so. let us not be mistaken. it is not a question of depriving the council of its prerogatives of political impulse or the commission of its power of proposal, but simply of offering ourselves the guarantee of an informed choice. but that's not all. punishment is a tool. it is one of the instruments - i refer you to the first two reports of the subcommittee on human rights - a comprehensive and integrated sanctions policy must be devised; there is no effective sanction without a human rights strategy in the country concerned. sanctions must be discussed at all levels and monitoring mechanisms, for example the human rights clause, must be used to the full. any sanctions against a country must always be accompanied by visible, and therefore political, but also practical, support for human rights defenders in the country. this is also a key point in the report. finally, the report also considers that any deliberate and irreversible damage to the environment is in fact a violation of human rights and therefore calls for it to be included among the grounds for sanctions. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. in short, this report attempts to respond to the present characteristics of the world crises.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by answering mrs flautre, mr romeva and those who have spoken on the need for expertise, evaluation and impact studies. i think this is very important and the council shares your concern that these decisions on sanctions should be taken on the basis of the best information possible, that they should be updated, and that the existing measures should be regularly reassessed on the basis of impact studies and that the council should be based on reports from the heads of mission on the ground, who are best placed to judge their effectiveness. the council has also considerably expanded its consultations with international and local non-governmental organisations and your assembly has shown today that it has a very important role to play in this assessment. but it is also true that sanctions are an instrument which must remain political. we must have a strategy in terms of methodology, but we cannot lock ourselves in a grid, nor can we have a character of automaticity - i mean here in the clearest and most responsible way - so there will always be a certain diversity of appreciation. to reply also to mrs koppa, who has a very developed intervention, sanctions remain a political instrument. they are not the only instrument for promoting human rights. there are two other instruments which are less stigmatising to the countries concerned but which are also instruments for the promotion of human rights, these are conditionalities which are provided for in particular in the policy of enlargement of the stabilisation and association process with the balkans or the neighbourhood policy and you have 'human rights' clauses which are also included in all agreements concluded by the european union with a third country or a group of countries whose violation may lead to the suspension of these agreements. i would like to reassure mrs koppa that there is no embargo on pharmaceutical products, but a system of control in so far as these products are dual-use goods and therefore subject to the non-proliferation regime. the council shares the view of many who have expressed themselves that sanctions must remain targeted and must not reach the civilian population. mr cappato and mr gawronski also raised an important issue, and several speakers returned to the question of environmental damage. it is true that environmental damage is not included in the objectives of the common foreign and security policy today, so it is true that from this point of view there is no consideration and that we must consider whether we should not include environmental damage, since it is a threat to international security or to the rights of the people, human rights. so there is a reflection to be made. i would also like to say to mr cappato that in the various cases mentioned, there have already been energy sanctions in the practice of the european union and that this has already existed in various circumstances. i would simply like to take up a few cases, many of which, of course, have been recent. about the war between russia and georgia. i am making it very clear that sanctions cannot achieve their purpose if they have the effect of severing all contact with the country concerned, in this case russia. finally, we should also consider whether the imposition of sanctions in this case would be in the interest of georgia. i ask everyone to think about it. i also go back to what was said about the calibration process. mrs. saks mentioned it. this is a very important case, particularly in regard to uzbekistan, which i visited as part of a conference on central asia and the european union's presence in central asia. i also met mrs tadjibaeva, a political prisoner who has been released, whose health conditions we hope will improve and who can be properly treated, but i also saw that a good calibration policy was actually making progress and ensuring that the authorities were committed to meeting the criteria set by the european union better and, in the case of this country, we will come back to october. as regards cuba, and those who have raised the matter, i would like to remind you that sanctions against cuba were lifted in june 2008, but that does not prevent us from keeping a close watch on human rights developments on the ground. i would like to make this clear at the end of this extremely detailed and rich debate, which shows the necessary involvement of your assembly.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this was a very useful discussion which highlighted a number of very important issues that we have to reflect upon when we opt for sanctions, because sanctions are just one of our foreign policy tools. we always have to apply them, after careful overall reflection, in conjunction with all other tools, including development work or political and economic reform in third countries. with all these tools we want to achieve one thing: upholding and promoting human rights. mrs flautre’s report clearly shows that we need to refine this instrument further and make sure that our system of sanctions is in itself fully in line with international law, and does not violate fundamental human rights we all subscribe to. i believe that our courts – as indeed the european court of justice has done today – contribute substantially to developing our sanctions system while at the same time safeguarding fundamental principles like the rule of law and due process. again, we should promote human rights and save the wider population, not punish them, either economically or otherwise. this is very important. i shall repeat, therefore, that we must target sanctions at those responsible for human rights violations and – as mr rack said – opt for instance for freezing accounts and visa bans so as to deprive those leaders or those responsible for human rights violations of any positive possibilities. a number of speakers, indeed mrs flautre herself, have also asked for a proper evaluation of eu sanctions and have suggested the development of a certain methodology. i think jean-pierre jouyet has already briefly referred to the work done in this respect in the council, which i would like to support, and in particular i think we should improve somewhat on the ex ante evaluation before imposing sanctions. here i could also offer again the services of our delegations because they are sur place and they have a very good knowledge of what is going on; contributions by civil society and human rights organisations are certainly very useful there. with regard to coherence i would like to say that sanctions are an important tool, but they must be complemented with a proactive approach in our development work: support for human rights institutions, political reform, promoting of civil society. burma/myanmar is a good example of that. sanctions are there while, at the same time, keeping open the possibility of working with ngos and human rights organisations. i think this is one important way forward.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i welcome the holding of this debate and the contribution you have made to it, as well as the presidency of the council and the commission. i think that through this discussion, there is really coming out what is beginning to look like a common philosophy. i have heard many calls for a more coherent policy, a credible policy, one that avoids double standards and double standards, and it seems to me that these are the issues around which we must continue to work. i have learned a great deal from the preparation of this report and from the discussions with the various parties. i really believe that there is still a lot of work to be done, and that the basis of that work in the future will be, and should be, a comprehensive and thorough evaluation of the current sanctions policy because when the question is asked - and we see it today with russia - the minds immediately heat up, the media is immediately on the alert. so we need a very solid philosophy and we need to be really in tune and in agreement about our procedures and our policy. i believe that in order to do this - i return to the question of the network of experts - it is not, of course, a question of substituting technical expertise for a decision which remains political and sensitive, but of ensuring that this sensitive political decision can be based, as far as possible, on objective elements of assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we are making very, very tangible progress. there are still - as everyone will have understood from a few speeches - a few minor points to be clarified, which were the reason for my abstention in the committee on foreign affairs. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we really cannot fall short of the requirements of full respect for human rights and international law in drawing up blacklists, in inscribing and de-inscribing from these lists. the court of justice judgment you have just mentioned, mr jouyet, is a strong incentive for us to move in this direction. i urge you, dear colleagues, to have not a perfect record, but a very honorable record, one that we can boast of and that is a good work tool.
in writing. the european parliament, playing at the un, is claiming to establish the rule of human rights everywhere in the world. he better sweep his front door. in france, belgium, germany and austria, thousands of citizens, including academics, publicists and elected representatives of their fellow citizens, are being prosecuted, convicted, ruined, deprived of their jobs, imprisoned, accused of racism for criticising immigration, of xenophobia for defending legitimate national preferences, of negationism for criticising the changing "official truths" of contemporary history, of homophobia for expressing a legitimate preference for the natural family, the only one capable of transmitting life. this political-judicial persecution extends even to lawyers. in germany, ms sylvia stolz was arrested for defending her client's position in court. in france, the council of the paris bar association, by refusing to pay the fees of retired lawyer eric delcroix instead of defending him, dishonors itself. magistrates such as estoup in versailles, schir in lyon, cotte in paris compete to make these arbitrary laws extensive applications in defiance of all the principles protecting freedoms. but most importantly, several of the people responsible for these liberty-killing laws sit right here. it is to them that our indignation should be directed first.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of objective 5 of the mdgs affects us because it concentrates the failure on advancing the emancipation of women in the world. we agree to make it a major political objective because it also offends our consciences. but we must also have the courage to say that hundreds of thousands of women are also victims of ignorance, neglect and obscurantism. neglect, because the majority of the 500,000 cases of maternal mortality could often be prevented by prevention and simple health care. the application of impregnated mosquito nets, for example, could prevent fatal cases of malaria in thousands of women. ignorance: girls and women are still too often excluded from basic education, which simply allows them to read and understand simple recommendations on hygiene and care. and finally, obscurantism: a certain obscurantist idea of religion and tradition, the one that keeps women in an unbearable dependence today, very early marriages, very close-knit maternities, the taboos of female contraception. so we're taking action, networks of parliamentarians for developing populations from europe and africa, working together under the umbrella of unfpa. we are advocating health, procreation, women's control of their motherhood and, beyond the necessary financial support, we must change the mentality and the place of women. this is a key policy objective for the development of all these countries.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the quality of his report. it has given us the opportunity to have a new in-depth debate on trade in services. we were able to identify some convergences and some points of discussion. we shall see after the debate and the vote whether there are any major differences. whether it is the internal market or external trade, we agree that the services market accounts for a majority of wealth creation and a quarter of world trade. it is possible that this sector of the economy still has growth potential for the european union. it is therefore legitimate to include the services market in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. this requires, however, that we define the principles and the modalities of the market for trade in services. the first point my group would like to make is that the market for services must be distinguished from the market for goods. services are not commodities like other commodities for several reasons. firstly, because not all services are of the same nature, some are linked to basic needs and rights. we are very much attached to the need to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial services, whether it be health or education services. vital services such as water and energy must also be considered with a special status. services are not commodities like other commodities because their trade often involves very directly human labour and not just the virtual exchange of technology. while they are potentially job-creating, it is also in this sector that we find the most informal work and the most precariousness. i therefore welcome the fact that this report recalls that trade rules must respect the social standards laid down by the ilo, because in pursuing development we must also fight against precariousness and poverty. finally, we have not lost sight of the doha objectives and international trade as a vehicle for development. this approach commits us to taking account of the different interests of member states and developing countries when negotiating lists of commitments and economic partnership agreements. the european union must take account of the stages of development, the pace and the will of the states in opening up the markets for services and, in particular, in liberalising some of their services, and i am thinking in particular of financial services. there can be no question of putting pressure on third countries in the way they design and regulate their services. the sovereignty of these states must be respected when it comes to such sensitive subjects as public services and financial services. i do not know whether we will reach a complete consensus on this issue. it is possible that we are dealing here with a subject which is dividing the right and the left of this house.
mr president, hypocrisy is first of all to say that consumers are being harmed. there is not a single european consumer on the street who knows what a computerised airline reservation system is. not one, because they all go through private counters, the internet, or the phone. what is at stake today is the relationship between airlines and the information they give about their flights, especially to travel agencies. this text sets out very strong principles of transparency and non-exclusivity. it is a text which is, after all, a classic text in the field of competition law and merger control. a number of lobbies are trying to force those who created the most important sir in europe to leave the board. that would be very serious, because all we have ever done here is to establish the rules of competition and the procedures for monitoring them. we have never forced the adoption of this statute or this shareholding. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote for the compromise which has been found, cleverly and after much work, by mr kirkhope, between the council, all the member states of the council - i repeat - the european parliament and the european commission. it is better to vote for this compromise than to get involved in a lobbying war again, given the many interests at stake and to avoid that this text is, in the end, substantially amended, which would be to the detriment of the consumer.
in writing. the text we are debating tonight has been the subject of lively discussion in the committee on transport and for good reason, because it is important legislation for the tourism and air transport industry, but also for citizens. and it was not easy to strike the right balance between maintaining competition between airlines and guaranteeing the independence of travel agencies, while allowing travellers to receive useful and neutral information. the text agreed by the rapporteur and the french presidency meets these requirements and i welcome it. a balanced definition of the associated carrier concept has been established and this is essential to ensure healthy competition between the different computerised reservation systems. i hope that the vote tomorrow will confirm the agreement at first reading so that it can be implemented quickly. thank you for your attention.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the regi committee, i would like to sincerely congratulate our colleague mr ortuondo on his major recommendations for the necessary development of our european ports. i would also like to congratulate him on having taken all our proposals into account and i thank him on behalf of all my colleagues. in our area of the union, the free movement of goods and people is an essential element for our growth and also allows us to assume our solidarity. the chain of goods transport 90% of transport and international trade requires that each link, each modality node, be optimal in relation to this flow. the 21st century port is not exempt from this new mobility. as part of the city, this component must be integrated into the sustainable urban planning of our cities, in line with the major, voluntary objectives of the fight against climate change. it is therefore also an element of regional development and must be optimally adapted to the integrated approach of the leipzig charter. the european port policy, which we are calling for, must therefore meet this important requirement, the objectives set out in this report and thus be integrated into our general approach.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, i would first like to welcome the minister, whose conviction and determination on these issues are well known, and the commissioner, and of course to congratulate frédérique ries on the excellent work she has done on a matter which is particularly important and which is very sensitive to our fellow citizens. hippocrates once said that to study medicine, you have to study the climate. and while we can acknowledge the efforts made by the european commission since the launch of the environment and health action plan in 2004, we can regret that it is not based on a genuine prevention policy to reduce environmental related diseases with a clear and quantified objective. ten years ago, when we were talking about climate change, the health risks were almost never mentioned. the frequency of heatwaves, floods, wildfires and natural disasters of all kinds in the union today are changing the occurrence of diseases caused by bacteria, viruses and transmitted by a number of insects. we must therefore focus on better understanding the health consequences, especially for the most vulnerable, in order to be able to better manage these risks. whereas the health programme 2008-2013 aims in particular to address the traditional determinants of health such as diet, smoking, alcohol and drug use, this action plan 2004-2010 should focus on some new health challenges and also address the key environmental determinants that affect human health. i am thinking of air quality, electromagnetic waves - this has already been discussed - nanoparticles, chemicals of concern - we have seen in reach - substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic to reproduction, endocrine disruptors, as well as the health risks from climate change, i have spoken about. i would also like to point out that respiratory diseases are the second leading cause of mortality, incidence, prevalence and cost in the union, are the main cause of infant mortality in children under five years of age and are continuing to increase, in particular due to outdoor and indoor air pollution. on the question of health, the urban environment, and in particular the quality of indoor air, the commission must do more to combat domestic pollution, given that the average european citizen spends 90% of his or her time indoors. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the quality of life in the community is maintained.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to start by congratulating our colleague on his work and determination on this matter, a determination which i share, because the link between the environment and health, if it is now widely recognised, deserves to be addressed in our political action. it is therefore essential to make progress in order to have better knowledge in this area and, above all, to implement actions to limit the negative impacts of our environment on our health. the different topics have been well identified and are covered in the action plan. it was necessary to take account of the effects of climate change and to propose an assessment of the health risks, just as it was essential to talk about electromagnetic fields. i am also pleased that the report includes a reference to the 2007 report of the european environment agency, showing that air pollution, in particular from fine particulate matter and ground-level ozone, is a significant threat to the healthy development of children, leading to a decline in life expectancy in the european union. i regret, however, that health problems in the working environment could not be incorporated into the text. i would remind you that millions of people today suffer from diseases linked to their working environment, which have various origins: stress, work intensity, various pollutants, musculoskeletal disorders linked to poor ergonomics of work stations. i hope that this theme will be taken seriously in other committees. as frédérique ries said, the main problem is also that we are lagging behind. it seems to me that the commission has not been active enough in meeting the commitments it has made. i will give one example, particularly on the question of nanoparticles, which is the subject of many reports at the moment and raises many questions. for example, i read in the commission's 2007 communication on the 2004-2006 objectives that 'we will look at the possible environmental and health effects of nanoparticles'. the second is to conduct studies on the potential health risks of nanoparticles between 2007 and 2010. three years to study a subject, then three more years to study it, i think we could have been more efficient. there are no doubt reasons for this weakness: lack of human resources, lack of financial resources. but what credibility can the european union have if it does not respect its own commitments? we know that the european citizen is aware of the added value of the european dimension in these matters. so let's not let him down. i would like to conclude with a question to the council and the commission: you have spoken, commissioner, of cooperation between services and between research teams, which is a good thing. is there also coordination between the different national environment and health plans drawn up at government level and the european action plan? and finally, madam minister, if you will take the floor again, has france, for example, linked its work to that which it has carried out in the framework of the grenelle environmental programme?
mr president, my first reaction when we discussed this proposal for a framework directive was to ask myself: do we really need such a text? is this really the right solution?' we already had a set of regulations on soil protection, waste, pesticides, nature protection, groundwater and so on. i also thought that in the context of the 'better lawmaking' programme, which we have been working on in our parliament for some time, we should not give the impression that we are once again going to the european commission and continuing to pile up regulations. i was thinking of our local elected representatives, our mayors, in the municipalities, who would still have to take this framework directive into account. but there is a reality. this reality is that human practices have absolutely not respected the soil and that we have systematically sought to produce intensively, therefore to impoverish the soil, to have urban practices that have degraded it. and i have noticed that mrs gutiérrez, in her work, which i would call remarkable, has managed to make acceptable proposals to us, seeking to bring the different tendencies closer together - because it is true that we see that there are really very marked oppositions in this parliament, as in the council - and that she has finally, after listening to parliament, come up with proposals that seemed to be as consensual as possible. it has found balanced positions, which respect subsidiarity, particularly in the choice of methods to be adopted by the member states to put this regulation on soils into practice. it has avoided adding to the administrative burden by encouraging the correction of past mistakes through our agricultural, industrial and urban practices, which have so far failed to respect the soil. i now turn to the council: when the council presidency says 'no hurry', it means that we are going to bury the matter. we are going to bury the file when there is, precisely, a need, in view of the disparities between the member states, to take positions, in respect of subsidiarity, which are clear in order to preserve our soils.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the amendment has been withdrawn and therefore cannot be put to the vote.
in writing. following the palestinian parliamentary elections in february 2006, i was one of the first to say, from jerusalem and in the european parliament, that sanctions should not be applied against the palestinian government, because it would be the people who would suffer. it is true that the political situation in the territories has deteriorated completely, particularly between fatah and hamas, but this political crisis cannot be blamed solely on european sanctions. that is why i abstained on amendment no 4. i also condemn the continued violation of international law by israel, but i regret that the report does not mention violations of international law in other countries in the middle east. there are two weights, two measures, which is why i voted against amendment no 5.
in writing. on paper, the 5th mdg - to reduce maternal mortality by 75% by 2015 - was probably one of the most accessible. in fact, he was the one who was the most late. the shocking fact is that in sub-saharan africa, 1 in 16 women die in childbirth. that number has barely moved in 20 years. it's the most dramatic health inequality on the planet. and when a mother dies, a child is 10 times more likely to die too... in the general mobilisation for the mdgs, particular attention should be paid to the fifth of them. the g8 itself has finally understood this. at its last meeting in japan, it adopted a "health package" to recruit and train one million health professionals in africa, so that 80% of mothers are assisted during childbirth. the ball is now in the eu's court! it must act simultaneously and massively in several directions: - information and education of women, - strengthening of public health systems in the south, - massive investment in human resources in health,
in writing. the general agreement on trade in services (gats), which provides for the liberalisation of services at global level and which the rapporteur is keen to see concluded, is in reality a global bolkestein directive. yesterday's "polish plumber" will be tomorrow's chinese or pakistani. the only exception is 'services provided in the exercise of governmental authority' which 'are not provided on a commercial basis or in competition with one or more suppliers'. in other words, only the police, the judiciary, the diplomatic corps and the military are not involved. on the other hand, the gats will be a further step in the dismantling of public services initiated by the commission 15 years ago in the name of competition and the internal market. the european union now believes that it can take advantage of a competitive advantage and argues that its service providers have insufficient access to third country markets. but services will be like industry: relocations and desertification, with, in addition, the import of social dumping. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on trade in services to invite the commission to promote, in trade negotiations, both the gradual and reciprocal opening up of access to the services market and a policy of increased transparency. the european union, the world's largest exporter and provider of services, can only encourage greater access to the services market, both at the level of developed countries and at the level of developing countries. however, this opening up must be gradual and reciprocal, taking into account the different interests of the states. in this respect, i voted in favour of amendment no 2, which recalls the need to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial services and to have a differentiated approach in opening up the markets for services of general interest. i also voted in favour of amendment no 5, which calls for universal, accessible and sustainable public services to be guaranteed for all in the context of epas. finally, in voting in favour of amendment no 7, which recognises that certain products, such as water, should be regarded as universal public goods, i wanted to point out that the opening up of the market for such services must be considered with caution.
author. - mr president, commissioner, it is thanks to you that i have been able to be head of the election observation mission in mauritania. we were all very proud of the results, because the big success was that the military handed over power to civilians after 24 years. i was in mauritania last week for eight days, and what do i hear there? i hear a population, who were so happy to have a civilian government, being again satisfied that the military has returned to, as they say, "re-adjust democracy". we call this, of course, a coup d'etat. this is a coup d'etat. we denounce him, we have denounced him. but i think we really have to go and see what is going on there and i advise you, ladies and gentlemen, to send a delegation to find out. the african union representative, mr ping, called this "an atypical situation". mr djinnit, from the united nations, calls this a "reversed situation" and both say that today we must be creative. and indeed, when we say that there is a blockage, it is true that there is an institutional blockage, but the institutional blockage does not come from the coup d'état, the institutional blockage is a degradation that has been going on since april and that reached its climax in june or july with a motion of censure that could not be voted, with extraordinary sessions of parliament that were not adopted, that were not granted and, indeed, an overwhelming majority of two thirds, or even three quarters for the president, who is reversed, demanding the resignation of the president. it's really upside down and it's hard for people who don't follow to understand. i ask you to go and see the situation as it is and really, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to support the democratic gains that this country has still managed to win in the last elections. what is also important to know is that institutions such as the senate, parliament and municipal councils, function and i still believe that they are the depositaries of popular power. so i think it's up to them to find a solution. i think we have to trust our parliamentary colleagues to propose a road map to this junta, which we reject, but it is really up to the representatives of the people, as we are the representatives of the people, to decide what needs to be done today. i believe that we can give them that credit, we can trust them and, indeed, if they do not find legally and institutionally legitimate solutions, we can intervene in a harsh way, but i believe that today these representatives of the people, who have the legitimacy, must make proposals and we must give them that support as colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last weekend, it was reported in the irish press that there may be a connection between the funders of the no campaign in ireland and the american pentagon and the cia. it was a very interesting story, with the rationale that europe should not become too strong. my request is that you ask the president to clarify this. we should also ask the council to give us information on this next time, council and commission. it would be interesting to have confirmation of what is behind this ominous no campaign in ireland, which was funded with 1.2 million euros. so i ask the president to investigate this in such a way that we can get information and transparency about what is behind it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if european banks are resisting the current crisis well enough, it is certainly because - even if it is still to be perfected - supervision in europe is serious. the ongoing work on crd and solvency ii provides an opportunity to take useful steps to improve financial security. however, banking is a risky profession, but it must be managed. the important thing for a banker is to always know the counterpart of each risk. this simple rule has been lost sight of by some unregulated stakeholders. for them, self-regulation is no longer enough. derivatives markets have become increasingly opaque, market participants have operated in risky conditions that were no longer controlled by the senior management of the institutions that are now most exposed. to get out of the crisis, we must build a system of control which inspires and re-establishes trust. today, entire sectors of finance escape the control of the authorities. who controlled the brokers who made open-end loans to insolvent households? who controlled the investment banks that relayed the crisis by turning bad loans into financial assets to sell to the whole planet? this regulatory gap also affects credit repairers, rating agencies and hedge funds. europe cannot suffer periodically the consequences of the faulty american financial system. as for the hedge funds, the policemen of the british and american markets have just temporarily banned downward speculation in financial securities. the failure of some of these overly opaque actors would accelerate the crisis of the deregulated financial system. not all funds are harmful, some are necessary, but we must prevent financial black holes from persisting. thinking is useful and necessary, but now is the time to act! that is the meaning of the two reports we are discussing.
madam president, commissioner, since you are such a betting enthusiast, let me tell you that your odds are not very good today. on the other hand, poul nyrup rasmussen's looks excellent to me and i would suggest you change horses. because what paul nyrup rasmussen has just said and proposed is exactly what the european union needs. but not just the european union, the world too. and that transatlantic relationship which you cherish would be nourished by a european initiative based on the proposals of poul nyrup rasmussen. commissioner, you are in the wrong debate. you remind us of the origin of the crisis last year. but the thinking we're doing here is thinking that we started long before the crisis last august because we know that the worm was in the fruit in the mature world. we are not archaicists who want to condemn or ban alternative funds or investment funds. we simply know that when vehicles, when instruments, have such strategic functions on the international financial market scene, when they have acquired such a place, they must be subject to the common rule of regulation. and they tell us that. they say, "we agree to regulation. we simply do not want to be stigmatised and we do not want specific regulation". but we agree! we want them to be registered, we want them to be supervised, we want them to have normal pay rules, we want the rules of transparency to apply to them, just like the rules on capital and equity. this is the reality. these structures have become so important in financial markets that they cannot now escape the common rule. and that is what you refuse, commissioner, former irish finance minister. this is the reality! you say, "it's not about hedge funds or private equity, it's about regulated markets". we are not going to give an economics lesson here, but we know that the banks were able to take such risks because they had hedge funds and private equities at their side which were used to transform products, which then polluted the banks' balance sheets. as regards the report by mr poul nyrup rasmussen, i would ask you to give us a concrete answer point by point, because it contains legislative proposals which could improve the balance of your mandate at the end of this commission. i heard you. you said, "on transparency, there is a review clause and we will meet". well, we're waiting for you because we agree. the key to the confidence of households and financial market participants is transparency. today, in the field of alternative funds and investment funds, this transparency is clearly lacking. and we need it. there are many proposals in the poul nyrup rasmussen report which i of course support, but i would like to go a little further. if we really want to get to the heart of the matter, we have to ask the question of what you call shareholder democracy. what is shareholder democracy when, with securities loans, it is possible, in two minutes or two days, to put the employment of so many employees at risk? this is a real reflection which you must carry out and on which we await effective proposals. the lending of securities is dangerous for employment in europe and is contrary to the lisbon strategy. and finally, the final point. other colleagues have spoken about this before me, and it is the challenge of offshore centres. you are a staunch supporter of the transatlantic alliance. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. there is no point in going to fight heroic battles in afghanistan and iraq but not also tackling evil when it exists in the financial markets. and offshore centers are a source of evil for financial markets. we are also waiting for your proposals on this subject, commissioner.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr david hammerstein, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the proceedings of the committee on petitions during the parliamentary year 2007 (2008/2028 (ini)) (a6-0336/2008).
in writing. mountain agriculture is a key issue for local economic development and environmental protection (combating climate change, biodiversity, providing safe and open recreational and tourism areas, etc.). the specific disadvantages faced by mountain farmers due to altitude, topography and climate justify the payment of compensatory allowances for natural handicaps and the receipt of direct income support to compensate them for the extra costs of production and also for the increasing role of managers of the land they occupy. in my view, the main issues are: avoiding the total decoupling of agricultural aid, particularly in the livestock sector, as this is likely to lead to job losses; helping the dairy sector, which plays a central role in disadvantaged areas; increasing support for the establishment of young farmers; and encouraging solidarity between the downstream and upstream sectors, particularly in water management. i also support the establishment of a genuine integrated european strategy for the mountains, which should be based on the integration of the specific features of the mountain ranges in the development of the various european policies.
in writing. the ebner report on the situation and prospects of agriculture in mountain regions highlights the characteristics and needs of these regions, which account for 40% of the european territory. these areas face natural difficulties which make production more difficult and limit their access. they therefore deserve special attention. i therefore call for the commission to draw up an overall plan which would be in line with the measures taken so far but would integrate them with each other in order to increase their effectiveness. the aim would be to continue to promote compensatory payments exclusively for compensation for natural handicaps, to provide financial support for young farmers and to give particular importance to the dairy sector. human activities must be maintained in the mountain areas classified as natura 2000. finally, the role of hunting and fishing in the maintenance of the spaces must be emphasized. such a strategy will enable these regions to meet the challenges of competitiveness and sustainable development, as they are not only potential sources of economic growth, but also guardians of high-quality productive traditions and help to preserve our landscapes.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with me on this dossier because our cooperation has been really excellent throughout the whole procedure. the text we are going to vote on today is a particularly sensitive text because what is meant by 'fighting terrorism' is 'threatening the rights of european citizens', whether that danger comes from the terrorists themselves or from the potentially liberticidal measures adopted to counter them. the scale of the terrorist threat has in recent years been exaggerated by some governments in an attempt to justify the adoption of security policies, both domestically and internationally. the threat is real and the european union must play its full part in the efforts to prevent and combat it with the utmost firmness. it is about the security of its 500 million inhabitants, it is about defending the fundamental values and principles on which it is founded. since the attacks of 11 september 2001, the territory of the union has also been repeatedly hit by terrorist attacks with the tragic consequences we all know: madrid in march 2004 and london in july 2005. and you all heard about the wave of attacks that took place, as of yesterday, in cantabria. the renewal and diversification of the tools and methods used by terrorists, however, makes the task much more difficult. the development of information and communication technologies, and in particular the internet, facilitates the organisation of terrorist networks and the dissemination of propaganda messages and online training manuals. it is estimated that there are now some five thousand such sites. hence the quite legitimate desire of the european commission to adapt community legislation in order to try to prevent not only terrorist attacks as such, but also the acts preparatory to such attacks. it has drawn directly from the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism. the problem is that it has chosen to deal only with the repressive aspects of the convention, while leaving aside the provisions on the protection of fundamental freedoms, which, according to the council of europe itself, are its indispensable counterpart. my concerns were mainly related to the concept of 'public provocation' and the risk it poses to freedom of expression, since this new charge is intended to punish words or writings that are alleged to have led to the commission of a terrorist act or are simply likely to have such an effect. at the april round table with the national parliaments we found that we were not the only ones to express reservations about certain aspects of the commission's text. several national parliaments have thus expressed doubts as to the application of this framework decision and the scope of the concept of 'public provocation'. the council of europe also highlighted the danger of the absence of safeguard clauses. finally, independent experts have expressed reservations in various studies, in particular on the definition of 'public provocation' and on the level of legal certainty of the text. the council itself, at the instigation of a handful of national delegations with a particular concern for the protection of fundamental rights, added a number of safeguards to the text of the framework decision. but it also proposed to tighten it up on one or two specific points and, in any case, work remained to be done to achieve a fully satisfactory level of legal security and protection of freedoms. we have therefore tried, together with my colleagues in the libe committee, to find the right balance between the two seemingly antinomic but fundamentally inseparable objectives of combating terrorism and protecting fundamental freedoms and rights. we have had to make a delicate balancing act, especially since it is often difficult in practice to know where freedom of expression ends and where the violation of the law begins. the scandal of danish cartoons two years ago and, more recently, the controversy of a short film on islam by dutch member of parliament geert wilders. that said, i think the compromise we have reached is a good one. the main changes we have made are as follows: first, the replacement of the term 'provocation' by the more precise and more commonly used term 'incitement' in criminal language; secondly, a stricter definition of 'public incitement' which makes it possible to define more clearly the behaviour to be criminalised and thus to avoid possible abuses which would lead to a restriction of freedom of expression; thirdly, the addition of numerous provisions in the body of the text relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in particular, freedom of expression and freedom of the press; fourthly, the need to ensure that the measures taken are proportionate to the objective pursued, which is essential in a democratic and non-discriminatory society. that's the gist of this case. i am glad that this topic has been chosen as the priority for this morning's plenary session and i look forward to a rich and lively debate.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are debating today together the report by my colleague, mrs roselyne lefrançois, on the fight against terrorism, and my report on the protection of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation. it should be remembered that the fight against terrorism can only be truly effective and proportionate if we guarantee the strengthening of the fundamental rights of every citizen. we must oppose terrorist movements that threaten our democratic societies and our fundamental values of respect for human rights. in my view, the commission's proposal on the fight against terrorism was unbalanced, because it merely reinforced the security aspect while leaving out too many provisions to protect fundamental freedoms. in this connection, i would like to congratulate once again roselyne lefrançois and all the other members for having re-balanced this text so that it guarantees security while respecting human rights and freedoms. it is well known that terrorist networks are increasingly using new information technologies, including the internet, for their incitement and recruitment activities. monitoring of such activities on the internet requires the collection of a large amount of personal information and it is essential that such collection be carried out with a high level of protection of personal data. i would remind the council of the commitments it made when it adopted the directive on data retention. we had expressed our wish that the information useful in the fight against terrorism could be used. in return, the council must honour its commitment and adopt a framework decision on the protection of personal data which ensures a high level of protection. i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on civil liberties, all those who have worked with me, and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, because the amendments we are proposing in my report were voted unanimously in committee. these amendments are proof that we are not content with harmonisation from below. we therefore argue that the framework decision should have a wide scope so that it is not limited to data exchanged between member states. it should also apply to data processed at national level, which would allow for enhanced cooperation between the different police and judicial authorities of the member states while ensuring an equivalent level of data protection throughout the european union. the principles of purposefulness and proportionality should be safeguarded by specifying and limiting the cases in which data may be further processed. this is essential, let us understand this, because data should not be used for any purpose other than that for which it was collected. we do not wish to prohibit any transfer of data to third countries, since such a transfer may be necessary in the context of the fight against terrorism. but it is still essential to assess for each transfer whether the third country in question ensures an adequate level of protection of personal data and this assessment, i stress, must be carried out by an independent authority. we ask the council to include in the framework decision provisions on the access of the competent authorities to data collected by private parties, in accordance with - i remind you again - the commitments made following the adoption of the data retention directive by the british presidency. finally, the use of sensitive data, such as data on political opinions, religious beliefs, health or sexual life, should in principle be prohibited, contrary to what is currently proposed in the framework decision. you will notice that the european parliament's amendment overturns the council's proposal, which allows the processing of such data under certain conditions. parliament wants this treatment to be banned, but it does provide for exceptions. the approach is totally reversed and we stick to it. the european parliament, in adopting this position, wants to respect the dignity of persons, and we think that the council should be able to agree with us on this need.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the speakers for the quality of their speeches, the number of which clearly shows the interest in this subject. without going into the various speeches in their entirety, i would like to emphasize three or four of them. mr fava has shown that the exercise is difficult. we must avoid a culture of suspicion and mistrust, but at the same time we must think through the substance, ensuring both the safety of citizens and the protection of freedoms. mr de grandes pascual has shown the added value of the definition of terrorism by saying that the definition we are adopting is more important, and by also stressing the list of offences. the european union must be able to take action against terrorism, and we must be able to do so in a way that is consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights. mr demetriou, you have stressed the scourge of terrorism which we must combat. but you used the term 'public incentive' and said that it was more of a concept that all member states could understand. mrs ludford shares this concern. this term seems to him the most appropriate, since we do indeed need to guarantee fundamental freedoms. this report is the result of a long and difficult process of negotiation. but i think we can be satisfied with the result achieved, particularly in terms of the balance between the fight against terrorism and respect for fundamental freedoms. the report by my colleague martine roure is fully in line with this second part, because the protection of personal data is one of its essential components. i only have one regret, which i know is shared by many in this parliament, and in particular by my green colleagues: that the implementation of such a sensitive text for the freedoms of european citizens is not subject to full judicial review by the court of justice. this framework decision should have been adopted under the lisbon treaty. even before the irish referendum was rejected and the entry into force of the new treaty on 1 january 2009 was called into question, the council's intention was very clear to move as quickly as possible to avoid the transition to codecision. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the matter. in the vote in committee on 15 july my draft report was adopted by 35 votes to 4, with 1 abstention, and i hope that it will also be able to secure a solid majority in the plenary.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would first like to thank all my colleagues, because this debate has shown that the european parliament is united on such a sensitive subject and we are the representatives of the european parliament, we are the representatives of the citizens. it's worth reminding you of that! i am addressing the french presidency in particular today. we ask the council to respect the commitments which have been made for a long time by several successive presidencies. it is essential that this framework decision be adopted quickly and that the european parliament's amendments be taken into account. the council must be true to its word. we absolutely must work in trust. it's the most important thing. and i hope that this message will be passed on to mrs dati, who is unfortunately absent from this priority debate, which we deeply regret. i would also like to thank vice-president jacques barrot in particular for his support, which is very valuable to us.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague helmuth markov of the committee on international trade, amending the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on community statistics relating to external trade with third countries and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1172/95. i welcome the commission's intention to make legislation clearer, simpler and more transparent, to adapt the extra-community trade statistics system to the changes that need to be made to customs declaration procedures, to increase the relevance, accuracy, timeliness and comparability of external trade statistics, and to set up a quality assessment system, to promote the link between trade statistics and business statistics, to meet the needs of users by developing additional trade statistics, through the use of information available in customs declarations, and finally to control, in accordance with the european statistics code of practice, privileged access to sensitive external trade data. i support the amendments to make greater use of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (comitology).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my greek colleague katerina batzeli, which endorses the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year of creativity and innovation in 2009. i support the series of amendments which are mainly intended to clarify the objectives of the proposal and make them more concise. as regards funding, i also agree to delete any existing reference in the proposal to the 'lifelong learning' programme alone, so that programmes and policies in other areas can be used where appropriate, such as culture, communication, enterprise, cohesion, rural development, research and the information society.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague agustín diaz de mera garcia consuegra, which approves as it stands the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (euratom, ecsc, eec) no 549/69 determining the categories of officials and other servants of the european communities to whom the provisions of articles 12, 13, second paragraph, and 14 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the communities apply. the council decision establishing the european police office (europol), which provides for the financing of europol from the community budget, will apply from 1 january 2010 or from the date of application of the proposal to amend council regulation (euratom, ecsc, eec) no 549/69, whichever is the later. in order to ensure that the europol decision applies from 1 january 2010, it became necessary to adopt, in due time, the amendment to council regulation no 549/69 specifying that immunity from jurisdiction does not apply to europol staff participating in joint investigation teams set up by and at the initiative of at least two member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my finnish colleague kyösti virrankoski which proposes to approve draft amending budget (dab) no 6 to the 2008 general budget which included the following elements: strengthening of the framework programme for innovation and competitiveness - innovation and entrepreneurship programme for an amount of eur 3.9 million in commitment appropriations; an increase of eur 2,24 million in commitment appropriations to cover, inter alia, the partial lease and related costs of a new arc building for eurojust; adjustments to the establishment plans of three executive agencies; the creation of the budgetary structure necessary to host the fuel cells and hydrogen joint technology initiative (fch), which is the 5th of the joint undertakings created for the implementation of the 7th research framework programme, for an amount of eur 30 million in commitment appropriations and eur 1,9 million in payment appropriations. i fully share the rapporteur's observation that, under article 179 (3) of the financial regulation, the european parliament, as a branch of the budgetary authority, should have been informed of the lease of a new building for eurojust, which has significant financial implications for the budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my dutch colleague thijs berman on the follow-up to the 2002 monterrey conference on financing for development. the european parliament's commitment to eradicating poverty, promoting sustainable development and achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) is the only way to achieve social justice and a better quality of life for the one billion people living in extreme poverty in the world. the european union is the world's largest provider of official development assistance (oda) with almost 60% of the global oda effort. i support the proposal to open up access to micro-credit to small business, especially small farmers, in order to increase food production and provide a lasting solution to the food crisis. i also welcome the proposal to call on the eib to set up a guarantee fund to promote microcredit and risk coverage models to meet the needs of local food producers in the poorest developing countries, but this proposal only makes sense under a commission mandate.
in writing. in 2001, the eu made a strong commitment to devote 0.7% of its wealth to development by 2015. in 2007, europe turned its back on this commitment, with a sharp drop in its collective effort. in concrete terms, this is 1.7 billion euros that the poorest people on the planet will not have received. 1.7 billion dollars that would have helped thousands of children to get health care when 11 million children die every year because of lack of access to health care. 1.7 billion would have given access to primary school to some of the 114 million children who are deprived of it. this is the eu's first responsibility in the field of international solidarity: to keep its word. but the eu must also ensure that its aid is effective, so that the situation of the poorest can be really improved. the 2002 monterrey conference set out a 'roadmap' including the end of 'tied aid', accelerated debt cancellation initiatives and the introduction of innovative financing mechanisms such as the 'tobin tax'. six years later, the eu is still far from being a success. the doha conference in a few weeks' time must enable it to resume its march forward. half the world is counting on her.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my spanish colleague maria badia i cutchet on improving the quality of education and teacher training and i fully agree with the analysis that 'improving the quality of education and teacher training leads to a clear improvement in pupil outcomes'. i am in full agreement with the idea of offering teachers higher quality and more training; recruiting the best-qualified candidates to become teachers should be one of the top priorities of all education ministries. there is an urgent need to promote mobility and the learning of foreign languages. but it is also necessary to promote excellence in the mother tongue, because it is the language which makes it easier for pupils to acquire other knowledge. all these cooperations will be very useful, in due course, in organising exchanges between schools (students and teachers), at all levels of education, and on the model of what is already being done with the erasmus programme for students.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my distinguished german colleague, doris pack, on the bologna process and student mobility. i share my colleague's view that increasing student mobility and the quality of the different education systems should be a priority of the post-2010 bologna process aimed at establishing a european higher education area. to promote student mobility, a whole range of measures should be taken, since the problem of mobility goes beyond the strict framework of higher education and involves social affairs, finance, immigration and visa policy. it is essential to provide specific support for students from disadvantaged groups in society, for example by offering them decent housing at low prices. i support the introduction of a single european student card to facilitate mobility and to enable students to benefit from reduced prices on housing and basic necessities, culture and transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my distinguished hungarian colleague józsef szájer, which contains recommendations to the european commission on the alignment of legal acts with the new decision on comitology. it is becoming increasingly necessary, for the quality of legislation, to delegate to the commission the elaboration of non-essential and technical aspects of legislation and its rapid adaptation to technological progress and economic changes. but such a delegation of powers must be encouraged by giving the legislator the institutional means to control the exercise of those powers. it should be noted that the ongoing alignment of the acquis with the decision on comitology is still incomplete as there are still legal instruments providing for implementing measures to which the new settlement procedure with scrutiny is applicable. i support, and i believe it is essential for the proper functioning of european democracy, that additional resources be granted to the european parliament for all comitology procedures in view of the possible entry into force of the lisbon treaty, but also in the current transitional period, so that each comitology procedure between the three institutions can function satisfactorily.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my hungarian colleague gyula hegyi, amending the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards the implementing powers conferred on the european commission, regulation (ec) no 999/2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses). i support the proposed amendments to use the regulatory procedure with scrutiny to adopt certain measures concerning products of animal origin derived from or containing material from ruminants. the same applies to the assessment of the equivalence of a level of protection applied by a member state by way of derogation from regulation (ec) no 999/2001 as regards measures following the detection of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (tse).
in writing. on saturday, september 20, a suicide bomber blew up a large truck outside the marriott grand hotel in the heart of pakistan's capital, reducing it to a charred ruin and killing at least 60 people. the attack is believed to be carried out by the pakistani taliban, which is linked to al qaeda. on sunday 20 and monday 21 september, eta, the basque armed organisation, was responsible for three bloodbaths. the preparation of these attacks was allegedly carried out on french territory. terrorism knows no borders and the schengen area provides an ideal cradle for recruitment, indoctrination and the logistical preparation of attacks. french interior minister michèle alliot-marie said that "french prisons are a prime recruiting ground for radical islamists". it is a fact that the causes of terrorism are many, but today they are mainly rooted in the armed struggle of radical islam. curiously, there is no legislation to detect and prevent recruitment in prison or in certain so-called sensitive suburban areas. the european union intends to have a legal framework to combat terrorism. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr minister, mr dominique bussereau, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to make it very clear that maritime safety must remain a priority on the european political agenda. we cannot wait until the next major accident at sea to see that maritime safety is a priority for us politicians, but also for the people who can no longer stand to see their coasts polluted. in addition, these accidents are an environmental disaster and cause economic disasters. our assembly held its first reading in april 2007. it took the council more than a year to send us its common positions on only five of the seven texts in the package. i have to admit i'm having a little trouble admitting this. it is true that there are times when major problems arise and agreements are difficult to reach. at least we agree on the legislative package, which is admittedly complicated, but i see little reason to prevent agreement on technical but concrete texts which, moreover, form a very coherent whole. i remember a year ago, we were all very happy and even congratulated each other. so it is clear that today i would like, as would my colleagues, to understand why the council has taken so long to study this matter, and also to know what has prevented agreement on two important proposals, both on the civil liability of ship owners and on flag state control, especially as the latter text is the natural complement to my report on port state control. in this context, everyone understands how the implications of one text for the others fully justify this package approach and the need for agreement on the whole. i know i may seem a little harsh, but i'd like to understand what's going on. however, i would like to welcome the real efforts of the french presidency of the european union, which is trying to unblock the situation and to revive the discussions on the two proposals that are currently missing, those of the savary and fernandez reports, because it is not the lack of progress on each of our texts or the difficulties specific to each proposal that have kept us away from this agreement with the council, but the fact that two proposals are today outside the package, which is an obvious problem for all the rapporteurs. i am convinced that we will find agreement quickly, because it is necessary, on every proposal, even in the case of a conciliation procedure. i know that the french presidency is working on this and i hope that it will succeed. i am not very concerned about my report on port state control, since i can say that many difficulties have been resolved by the end of our informal trilogue. apart from a few differences in wording, there are three major points of disagreement with the council, on which i preferred to return to the position of our assembly at first reading. the first point concerns the application of the directive to anchorage, which is a key issue for maritime safety. we must include the wetland in this text. i believe that this is a message of firmness and consistency. ships which do not meet the standards must not be able to evade inspection, whatever their sea route and their calls in european waters. the second point concerns the application of a permanent banishment measure. i think that this is a measure which should be retained as a deterrent to bad behaviour. this measure should rarely be applied, as few ships should meet the conditions for application, but it must be in place for ships which do not meet the standards, so that these ships are not likely to cause new problems and leave a feeling of impunity. the third point concerns the flexibility measures for the application of the inspection system. we have adopted, at our first reading, flexibility mechanisms based on particular circumstances, for example in the event of a missed inspection due to bad weather conditions making any inspection impossible, or in the event that the safety conditions are not met. the possibility of deferring the inspection of a ship from one community port of call to the next was also considered. the council wants more. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, since i have become a real 'false' rapporteur, since the council has dismissed my report, i have only two minutes left. i will therefore go straight to the point, first of all to say that i am not addressing the french presidency, which supports us, not the commissioner, who supports us, but the council, and then to my colleagues to thank them for their solidarity, to say that we have had a bad experience with the erika, we have had a bad experience with the prestige. member states have accused europe of not doing enough. today, thanks to jacques barrot, we are trying to create a virtuous european maritime area. one of the provisions we are proposing is the civil liability of shipowners. what does that mean? that means that at the very least we would ensure that all ships are insured with companies that are liable for the damage they cause, at least under the imo conventions, and i was pleased to note at la rochelle that member states which had not subscribed to the imo were suddenly falling madly in love with the imo. so i said, "ratify the imo conventions, and first the one on chemistry". today, tomorrow morning, there may be a chemical hazard, a chemical catastrophe. we'll be back to the days of the exxon valdez. virtually no member states have made a legal commitment to the imo on chemical risks. that's the first thing. the second is to have a certificate of guarantee and insurance on the european maritime area. we must have confidence in europe. when it's early, it makes the world go forward. we have seen this in particular in the blacklisting of airlines. and then, my colleagues, i was recently at a conference. is the erika still possible? yes, he was in the black sea last year on november 11, 2007 with 5 boats that were wrecked in the kerch strait and had fake insurance policies. i think we must first of all moralize this and that is why i think, mr president-in-office, that parliament's resistance is not a matter of self-interest. this is a matter of public health and public interest. and we will never again accept that we are being held responsible for the negligence of the member states if they do not make an effort. i'm counting on you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious about this. despite some positive provisions, the majority of the reports that are put before us will never exceed the therapeutic value of a cataplasm on a wooden leg in terms of maritime safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this will only make the european institutions even more illegitimate in the eyes of the people in the event of another disaster, especially when we know that the european union is committed to the general agreement on trade in the world trade organization (gats), whose committee on maritime regulation declares that the current environmental and safety regulations for maritime transport are excessive and need to be revised downwards. the people of the communities affected by the erika and others will appreciate the union's cynicism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of safety in shipping. we must tackle tax havens which allow shipping activities to be segmented into a patchwork of shell companies offering the possibility of circumventing regulations. the practice of flags of convenience, including those within the union, which reduce registration fees and crew costs by an average of 60%, must be stopped. above all, new rights must be given to employees in the field of safety. but you will never do that, because that would be to attack the very foundations of globalized capitalism.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, in conclusion, i think that this debate has nevertheless shown a common will to achieve a result today, and i think that is very important. much work has been done, particularly under the french presidency, and this is to be welcomed. i hope that after the transport council on 9 october, mr minister, we will be able to find a solution which will bring everyone together, but which will not leave anything important on the sidelines. the whole of parliament is in favour of the package, and i hope that we will succeed in getting the package adopted in plenary.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, will the increase in acts of piracy at sea be an opportunity for the european union to use the means to defend, if and where necessary, its values and interests? in any case, do not tell our fishermen, who were forced last week to take refuge in the port of mahé in the seychelles, do not tell the crews of our merchant and pleasure vessels, who are increasingly threatened farther and farther from the territorial waters of somalia, that this is not europe's business! it would be to forget that what all our fellow citizens in europe expect from europe is first and foremost security, and in particular maritime security. that is why, commissioner, the commission's initiatives to implement a european policy on the seas and oceans have been so well received. i therefore have no doubt, mr president-in-office of the council, that you will find in this house a large majority in favour of the measures you will be asked to propose at the end of the consultation, which i understand is still ongoing. today we are told that it is not that simple, that it might be appropriate to consult our allies around the world first and to consider the legality of all this in the light of international law. the recent releases of the hostages from the ponant and the carré d'as show that we have the means to take effective action, provided we have the will to do so. i hope that this will, mr president-in-office of the council, will be the subject of a broad consensus in the council.
madam president, i should first like to thank the council and the commission for having acceded to parliament's request for a debate on this topical and urgent matter. we have spoken about this in particular in the committee on transport, where we had a meeting with mr de rossa, who gave us an idea of the extent of the situation. i would like to say that we should welcome the rapid reaction of the states concerned - i am talking about france and spain - and what has already been implemented at the un and in the council. i think that's a pretty quick answer. i think there are a few things that should be avoided. firstly, the civilian ships' demands for weapons. i see them coming and i think we have to be careful because we know very well that these are factors that increase the danger. secondly, we must not neglect this phenomenon and let it slip into terrorism, that is to say, we must not allow political organisations to get involved, because then it would take on a completely different dimension. thirdly, we must avoid a dispersed order of member states. in this respect, i have a small thought for the stability pact. it is clear that some member states are asked not to have a deficit, but it is these same states that are always asked to provide protection because they have the means to do so. i therefore believe that something a little more solidary is needed at the level of the european union, and that those who cannot afford to be protected should be protected by those who do have the appropriate military means. but in this case, let's draw all the conclusions at all levels. i would also like to say that, while it is absolutely urgent to act as a deterrent by means of measures taken, for example, by the french government in the areas of le ponant and le carré d'as, we know very well that crime is in the nature of man but that its legitimacy is fed by the despair of the people, and that it is therefore very important to undertake diplomatic action towards these countries and to find ways of helping them both in terms of security and development. they won't always see the rich dishes pass with a hungry stomach.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have seen a rise in acts of piracy, particularly off the coast of somalia. these attacks use much more sophisticated means and are therefore a reflection of a powerful mafia. i therefore fully share the concern of all my colleagues for the extremely vulnerable european fishermen. but the european union has provided itself with the means to respond to these attacks. the meeting of the european foreign ministers on 15 september has produced results which i consider to be significant. on the one hand, the 27 have approved the creation of a coordination unit and, on the other hand, the ministers have adopted a military, strategic option, paving the way for a possible naval military operation of the european union. there have been some reports of the use of private security agencies. that doesn't seem like the right solution. the only long-term solution, as mr savary said, is both diplomatic and political. piracy takes advantage of weak states to flourish. it is by helping the countries concerned to crack down on illegal activities, by helping them to regain political stability and to get out of poverty that we will overcome this scourge. that's how the strait of malacca got rid of pirates a few years ago. but the european union cannot of course act alone, as nicolas sarkozy has said. the international community must act, or the ships will not be safe. this is especially true since piracy is not limited to the somali coast. the european union has taken the initiative in a concerted response, and it is now up to the entire international community to shoulder its share of responsibility.
president of the council. - yes, i believe - as mr ortega rightly points out - that there are indeed immigration needs in europe and we do not deny this. that is why we must provide - and i have stressed this point - for reception and integration conditions and for adapting migration flows to the economic and social situation in europe. we must look at the needs from the point of view of immigration. the tendency is often to reduce these needs to skilled immigration, but this is not relevant because europe also needs unskilled immigration and the discussions at council level are precisely about how best to manage these immigration needs and how best to find solutions to the needs for employment, qualifications and reception in schools and universities. we are at that stage and we shall see more clearly after the european council on 15 october when the guidelines are defined. it is on this basis that the legislative measures to which mr ortega refers and which are actually necessary will be translated.
president of the council. - mr ryan, the question you raise is important because it concerns the effectiveness of development aid. it is important to keep a significant volume of development aid, and i will come back to that, but you are quite right in stressing in your question that this aid must be effective. in order to have effective aid, and also to be able to fight against fraud and misuse of development aid funds, there must be better coordination and complementarity between donors. that is why we are working on a joint multiannual programming based on poverty reduction strategies which make it possible to see better how funds are allocated and according to which objectives, and which also make it possible to control better the allocation of funds. this is why we have established common implementation mechanisms, including joint analyses. in particular, there are large-scale joint missions, which are funded by both donors and beneficiaries, so that there are co-financing mechanisms. these issues were on the agenda of the 3rd high level forum on aid effectiveness held in accra last week. we discussed this at the last part-session here at the beginning of this month. at the forum in accra at the beginning of september, an action plan was adopted. it corresponds to a large extent to the expectations we had for the european union. the main commitments made by donors are: to plan better, three to five years in advance, the aid that is to be provided; to use the administrations and organisations of the partner countries; to make the most of the opportunities offered by the community's external aid; to make the most of the opportunities offered by the community's external aid. the commission is also proposing to change the rules on the use of the financial instrument from those imposed by third countries to those based on objectives set by the developing countries themselves. as regards the monitoring of the delivery of assistance, both the council and the european parliament have the possibility to assess annually how the union's external assistance has been used. this evaluation is carried out by means of the annual report on the development and external aid policies of the european community and their implementation, which the commission generally presents towards the end of june - which, according to the information i have, should normally have been done last june. i would add that the development cooperation instrument provides for tools to protect the community's financial interests, particularly, as mr ryan wishes, with regard to fraud and irregularities. so there are evaluation mechanisms, control mechanisms, mechanisms to ensure better coordination between donors and beneficiaries, but ultimately the real objective will be to ensure that these policies are appropriated by the beneficiary countries, to continue to focus on good governance and to ensure that there is better accountability, particularly on the part of the beneficiaries of these aids, for the allocation of our aid. that is what i wanted to point out.
president of the council. - i want to emphasize what i said. mr. ryan is right. it is true that one of the problems for european public opinion is that the volume of development aid remains high. in this respect, as you know, the european union is the main contributor to development aid. on the other hand, it is important that effective governance and control mechanisms are in place. there also needs to be better public information on aid and the ownership of aid by recipient states and really monitoring governance - some conditionality - needs to be at the heart of development policies. you're absolutely right, corruption is a plague. i do not know whether the figures, as you yourself have said, from transparency international are correct, but in any case the finding is correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what the council concluded on 27 may on its objectives for development policy. there must be better control and conditionality mechanisms to protect financial interests, but also and above all, as you have stressed, mr president, to fight corruption.
president of the council. - mr president, mr o'neachtain, the council is fully aware of the need to seek adequate and effective responses to food price inflation. this is a complex issue which the commission - and i thank it for this - analysed in detail in its communication of 23 may 2008 and the european council of 19 and 20 june took decisions on this basis. in the agricultural sector, the union has already acted: we have sold off intervention stocks, we have reduced export refunds, we have abolished the standstill requirement for 2008, we have increased milk quotas and suspended import duties for cereals. this has improved supply and helped to stabilise agricultural markets, but that is not all. we must continue the reform of the common agricultural policy, we must make it more market-oriented, while promoting sustainable agriculture throughout the union and ensuring adequate supply. the agriculture ministers are discussing this, perhaps even today, at the informal council in annecy, and will return to it at the agriculture council on 17 and 18 november. in this context, the french presidency is determined to ensure that the instruments for crisis management are strengthened in an increasingly uncertain international context and to maintain all the instruments for market regulation to avoid the volatility that you rightly point out. the question of food prices is not just about agriculture, other mechanisms are at work. i am thinking in particular of fisheries policy, which must deal with the consequences of the increase in the price of diesel. on 15 july the council adopted a package of emergency measures to encourage the restructuring of the fleets most affected by the crisis. there is also the regulation of retail trade: a report is to be made by the commission to the european council next december. there are biofuel policies, which must also take account of economic and environmental imperatives and ensure that the prices of these new fuels are limited. as you can see, these very cross-cutting issues - not to mention those we have already mentioned, i.e. development policies and therefore supply policies in relation to food imports - which cover a whole range of policies are on the council's agenda. the european council will come back to this in both october and december and, of course, i will be pleased and happy to report to you on the results of this work.
president of the council. - what i wanted to say is that, as the honourable member knows, we want to ensure that the health check is supplemented by a reflection on the future of the common agricultural policy. this was also the subject, and indeed the central subject, of the discussions between the agriculture ministers in annecy yesterday and today. the honourable member knows that he can count on the determination of the french presidency in this respect.
president of the council. - this is a subject which interests me very much, so i will try to be brief. on the other hand, i shall try not to confine myself to the legal aspects, although there are such aspects. there is no express competence of the union in the field of sport. i would like to point out to mr aylward that the treaty of lisbon provides a legal basis for real sport policies. we are aware of this and we are waiting for the implementation of this treaty for this and many other reasons. we want to ensure that europe is aware of the various dimensions of sport and its influence on young and old people, but above all its social and educational aspects. we as the presidency attach great importance to cooperation between the member states in this area. before there are these new legal bases linked to the lisbon treaty, i believe we must become aware of the specific nature of sport in our society. at the informal meeting of the ministers responsible for european affairs, which i convened in brest on 12 july, we discussed this question in the context of the european union. we have raised the question of the conditions for the recognition of this specificity in a legal framework which is clear from the point of view of community law and the need to improve the governance of sport at european level. we have had discussions with the president of uefa, michel platini, and we have drawn on the white paper on sport, the pierre de coubertin action plan, which was presented by the commission last july. these discussions will continue between the ministers responsible for sport in biarritz on 27 and 28 november. there will also be a european sports forum and the presidency will invite the ministers to look at a number of issues which i think are extremely important for the cohesion of our societies and for the educational value of sport, including health and sport, the fight against doping, the fact that it is also necessary to maintain a local rooting in sport, to ensure that clubs can have a return in terms of players who are trained in training centres, and the problem of dual careers, dual training. as you can see, we are very committed in this area to highlighting the role of sport in the european union and giving it its full place in the union, pursuing three objectives: recognising the specific role of sport in society, taking account of the place occupied by physical and sporting activities in economic development, and finally, ensuring in an increasingly complex society good governance of sport, of all sports.
president of the council. - mr president, mr aylward is quite right. we want to ensure that there is a better balance between amateur and professional sport, we want to have a framework, in some cases, for professional sports and we want to support and encourage the thousands of associations which, throughout europe, play a voluntary role in sport. and that is where it is really necessary to ensure that the european union has incentive mechanisms and it is important that we already know which associations are involved in supporting sport in the european union. we need to have a thorough study of volunteering within the union, and particularly volunteering in sport, and if mr aylward is willing to join us in the study we are going to launch, he will of course be welcome. this is an important aspect which we wish to take into account. i would point out in this connection that we will also be bringing together in paris on 5 october all the european sportsmen who have taken part in the olympic games. nevertheless, many amateur athletes still compete in the olympics.
president of the council. − this is a very serious subject, and the french presidency of the council attaches the greatest importance to alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. this is a subject which, at one time or another, concerns every european family and which we must tackle hand in hand unless we are overtaken by the ageing of the european population. as president barroso and president sarkozy announced on 1 july, we must prepare together a european plan to combat alzheimer's disease, which is based on three main areas: research, care for the patients and their quality of life, ethics and legal aspects, particularly with regard to the actors involved in the treatment of this disease. it is in this context that the french presidency will be organising a ministerial conference on europe against alzheimer's disease in paris on 30 and 31 october. this conference will focus on this disease, but will also address other diseases that are related to it, pick's disease, binswanger's disease, lewy body dementia. we will discuss all these diseases in order to study how to achieve a more concrete link between patient care and social support, how to adapt occupations and skills to the needs of patients, how to follow the evolution of knowledge - that is, everything related to medical research and competence - how to better coordinate research programmes in the various european countries, and how to know the latest scientific results concerning this disease and the development of new medicines. the european dimension must and can undoubtedly give a significant impetus to the various aspects of the fight against these scourges. the results of this ministerial conference will contribute, mr president, to the elaboration of the conclusions of the european council next december, but we are well aware that we are starting a new project. it will be a long process and it is really important that the next presidencies, starting with the czech and swedish presidencies, continue the work that has been started. i know, given the sensitivity of your assembly, that we can count on the support of the european parliament, as we can also count on the commitment of the european commission to ensure this essential continuity.
president of the council. as the two honourable members have pointed out, and mr aylward is right, we must study everything in the context of the conference that has to do with prevention and education, and we must take into account the elements of dementia and in particular, as i believe i have emphasized in my speech, those related to lewy body syndrome. this is a natural process, because alzheimer's is a neurodegenerative disease, which means that neurons degenerate and die. when these neurons, which are used to program a number of actions, are lost, the result is a loss of capacity. if we associate alzheimer's disease with memory loss, other areas of the brain are also affected and, of course, it is clear that this can be accompanied by dementia phenomena, which we must act on in the long term preventively. from that point of view, i can assure mr aylward that the conference will deal with these issues. as regards the question of mrs pleštinská, i do believe that there is a marginalisation. you mentioned the increase in alzheimer's disease in your country. unfortunately, this is not an isolated case in europe. here again, we will look at the question of earlier diagnosis. we need exchanges of information, we need better coordination between specialists in these matters at european level, but it is true that early diagnosis is particularly important to avoid patients being marginalised and gradually sinking into this disease without others noticing.
president of the council. - mr president, i thank mrs doyle for giving me the opportunity to inform your assembly of the latest developments in the common agricultural policy. the council is working intensively and constructively on the health check - i have already said this - with a view to a political agreement as soon as the european parliament has delivered its opinion, which is expected in november 2008. we want to work closely with your assembly on the basis of the report which your committee on agriculture and rural development is planning to present on 7 october. the council is due to debate it at the end of the month, on 27 and 28 october. the council is continuing its examination of the commission's legislative proposals - as i have indicated - on the subjects of modulation of support, market management mechanisms, milk quota management and cross-compliance. the agriculture ministers discussed this yesterday and today in annecy. the ministers discussed both the health of the cap and the future of the common agricultural policy, distinguishing between the internal and the external aspects. as regards the internal component, it is important to ensure that a larger share of the cap appropriations is allocated to the most vulnerable people, in particular to take account of price increases, as we have seen, and the external component must include the establishment of an emergency food facility of the european union. as regards the concern expressed by mrs doyle about the animal health strategy, following the presentation by the commission in september 2007 of its communication on a new animal health strategy for the period 2007-2013, the council adopted conclusions on that strategy on 17 december 2007, in particular inviting the commission to present an action plan in this regard. this action plan was adopted by the commission on 10 september and it is on the basis of this document that the french presidency is determined to continue its work. we want to strengthen community procedures for the control of animal diseases both within the community and at importation level, and to revise legislation on biosecurity and compensation.
president of the council. - look, i share mr. higgins' concerns, so i'll see what the council is willing to accept or not. what seems very clear, mr higgins, is that we share your concern as the presidency to ensure the food security of our fellow citizens and to ensure the traceability of food products. it is therefore extremely important to meet the demand for quality and variety in food. health safety will be conceived by the consumer in an even more rigorous way and we will make sure that consumers are further informed about the public health considerations related to nutritional balance and about the origin and quality of products. you know that this is one of the concerns of the presidency and we will try, in the various councils, to ensure that this objective, which is dear to us and common to us, mr higgins, is achieved.
president of the council. - mr president, mr higgins, as you know, the european council has taken note of the results of the irish referendum on the treaty of lisbon. it also noted that the ratification process was continuing and explicitly recalled that the lisbon treaty was intended to help the enlarged union act more effectively and in a more democratic way. the heads of state or government will return to this subject at the october council. we must all think together about the consequences of the current institutional situation for all policies, including enlargement, and for the institutions. the treaty of nice was designed politically for a european union of 27. but what i want to say in the clearest possible way is that, during its presidency, france is pursuing the ongoing negotiations with croatia and turkey in an impartial manner, depending on the progress made by the candidate countries in fulfilling their obligations. as regards croatia, there are 21 chapters opened out of 35; three are temporarily closed. two intergovernmental conferences are planned under the french presidency and we have already opened the chapter on the free movement of goods under our presidency. as regards turkey, we had a troika meeting last week on the sidelines of the foreign ministers' council. there are eight chapters open out of thirty-five, one chapter is provisionally closed, and if the conditions are met, we hope to be able to open two or three more chapters with turkey by the end of the year.
president of the council. - these are important questions raised by mr higgins and mr mitchell. i leave mr. mitchell to take responsibility for his comments. i cannot comment on his remarks myself and he will readily understand them in view of my duties before this house. there are many causes. i think that the report which was drawn up following the 'no' vote in the irish referendum highlights different elements: it raises questions of leadership, it raises thematic questions, and it highlights a misunderstanding of what the lisbon treaty was. we will do everything possible, under the french presidency, to find a solution to this important institutional problem. we need the lisbon treaty and, in agreement with our irish friends, we will look for all possible ways by the end of the french presidency. in reply to mr higgins, i think he's right. the referenda have undoubtedly shown that there is a disconnect between the european project and public opinion. this is why we must look at the issues of substance as well as the issues of communication. this morning, together with the commission, the representatives of your assembly - vice-president vidal-quadras roca and commission president jo leinen - and myself, we tried to define an interinstitutional architecture, a political declaration aimed at improving communication between the three institutions, which for the council - and i am speaking objectively - represents an effort and has not been very easy. as for the suggestion you make, i can only speak in my own personal capacity, but i must say that the idea of a genuine europe day being celebrated throughout europe would seem to me to be a real symbol of a more shared citizenship, of a better understood europe. but this is an idea that you and i and those of us who are the most ardent europeans must take forward. but personally, i think it's a good idea.
thank you for your clarification. i would like to clarify a point more specifically. ireland is the subject of much discussion, but four other countries have not yet ratified the treaty as you know: poland, the czech republic, sweden - we do not even know where the ratification process is in sweden - and even germany. i would remind you that everything is pending an opinion from the so-called karlsruhe constitutional court, whose president has said that he does not want to rush and will not give his opinion until the beginning of next year. i would therefore like you to give us further clarification on the next steps. i thought that this treaty, which was signed last december, was to come into force in a few months. what is it exactly?
president of the council. - i have always shared mr cousteaux's rigorous analysis. we have intellectual differences, which is no surprise, but i recognize his rigor in analysis. what i want to say very clearly is that we must distinguish the case of germany. we shall see what happens, but i have no great concerns in this respect, with all due respect to the karlsruhe constitutional court, and i have no information on this. as far as poland is concerned, we have contacts with the polish authorities and there is cohabitation in poland too, but i believe that the polish government is also committed to ratifying the treaty of lisbon. as far as sweden is concerned, there is no indication that the process will be hindered and i think it will take place in november. and as regards the czech republic, as you know, we have to wait for the opinion of the court. senate elections are underway and a major political party congress will be held in early december. that seems to me to be the most anticipated case. i do not share mr cousteau's calculation, i do not share his pessimism. it is true that time is needed and that time must be given to time, but there must be a will to express itself and the french presidency, for its part, is determined to show its willingness in this respect.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr mitchell on this serious issue, the union remains very seriously concerned about the iranian nuclear programme and the lack of iranian willingness to fully address the concerns raised by a possible military dimension of this programme. in december 2007, the european council stressed that it would be unacceptable for iran to acquire a nuclear military capability. in this regard, the council has repeatedly deplored iran's failure to comply with its international obligations as set out in un security council resolutions 1696, 1737, 1747 and 1803, in particular the suspension of all its uranium enrichment activities, which is a fundamental element in order to be able to develop the necessary framework for opening negotiations and moving towards a long-term solution. the union has always affirmed iran's right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, and if iran wishes to restore the confidence of the international community in the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme, it must suspend sensitive activities related to the nuclear fuel cycle. the proposals made by javier solana in june 2006, and reiterated in june 2008 on behalf of the six countries most closely involved, are still valid and must help us break the current impasse. the union strongly regrets that iran suspended the provisional application of the additional protocol in february 2006. the result, as the director-general of the international atomic energy agency has pointed out, has been to reduce the agency's knowledge of certain aspects of iran's nuclear programme. moreover, as the director-general of the iaea has just reiterated in his report of 15 september, iran refuses to answer the agency's specific questions on activities linked to the design and manufacture of nuclear weapons. as the director of the agency has pointed out - and i cannot conclude otherwise - this situation is a source of serious concern for the union and the international community.
president of the council. - we're not looking at military options. i have made it very clear here. the six reiterated their support for the two-pronged approach, which must combine dialogue and sanctions in order to reach a negotiated solution that responds to the concerns of the international community. as regards sanctions, they are of various kinds. they must be targeted and also concern the economic and financial sector.
president of the council. - what i wanted to say is that the most effective tool we have to support the fight against illegal immigration is readmission agreements with third countries, which are in the neighbourhood of the european union. the community has managed to conclude agreements with 11 third countries. this is the case with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, whose agreement entered into force on 1 january 2008. all these agreements contain provisions on third-country nationals in transit. as regards turkey, negotiations were formally launched in 2005. for croatia, there is no mandate to negotiate a readmission agreement and the council hoped that in the case of croatia there would be rapid progress in the ongoing negotiations. the pact which will be discussed and, we hope, approved by the european council on 15 october will put a political emphasis on the importance of readmission agreements in the fight against illegal immigration.
i just want to thank the minister for his answer. mrs panayotopoulos apologises for having to leave due to time constraints. she asked me to thank you for your reply, minister.
president of the council. - mr president, it is a pleasure, obrigado for this last question which is a gift. i will of course answer as a representative of the presidency of the council and will not surprise mr hutchinson - we know each other well - by saying that the financing of the public television sector is a matter for the member states, that the protocol annexed to the treaty establishing the european community on the public broadcasting system in the member states is unequivocal and that it is therefore for each member state to determine the financing of public television operators. that's what i wanted to tell mr. hutchinson.
president of the council. - firstly, in the country i know best, as far as i know, different political parties, whatever their sensibilities, had called for an end to the tyranny of the audience and the threat it poses to quality and to multicultural programming, i see. secondly, you distinguish between what is reform in terms of existing advertising resources and public funding. the funding must be kept up to the requirements of the public service and we must have funding to meet those requirements. that is a fact that is not disputed. thirdly, as usual, france has no intention of imposing any model and, as i said, this remains a matter for each member state. that said, we are all very committed to maintaining a quality public service of audiovisual content.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the second generation schengen information system (decision) (12059/1/2008 c6-0188/2008 2008/0077(ini)) (a6-0351/2008), and the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the second generation schengen information system (regulation) (11925/2/2008 c6-0189/2008 2008/0078 ((cns)) (a6-0352/2008).
we will now hear the council. mr jouyet, on behalf of parliament, i would like to congratulate you on your presence here all day. i believe that your diligence in this house is in keeping with your commitment to europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to say that martine roure is a fictitious rapporteur on this report. she cannot be here and i am speaking on her behalf and on behalf of the pes. i agree with the rapporteur and thank him for his work. this is an unacceptable situation. the implementation of sis ii has been considerably delayed. we have already had to extend the commission's mandate for the first time until the end of december 2008 to make this migration. the commission has again fallen behind on a major issue and is now asking for an indefinite extension of its mandate to carry out the migration. this seems unacceptable to me, because then any future consultation of the european parliament on this matter would be ruled out. however, we do not want the migration from sis to sis ii to be rushed, as this would be to the detriment of the quality and security of the data and the system as a whole. therefore, all precautions should be taken to ensure data protection and system security. we could therefore agree to extend the deadlines and the mandate of the commission again to ensure that this migration is carried out. however, this process cannot be continued without democratic control by the european parliament. the pse group will therefore support the rapporteur in his approach to ensure the powers of the european parliament.
president of the council. - thank you very much to all the speakers for the quality of this debate and the broad support for the principle of the new mandate, as well as for the position of the rapporteur, which was expressed by the various speakers. mr marinescu, i welcomed the excellent work done by the portuguese presidency, which has made it possible to connect new member states. i have noted romania's desire to join the system under the control of the commission as soon as possible, with the technical adjustments that may be made in this respect. in relation to the comments made by mrs lefrançois and mr lax, the council can only regret the delay, but we note all the efforts made by the commission, the personal commitment of vice-president jacques barrot to redress the situation and the strong action he has mentioned in relation to the claimant. the council will also remain vigilant alongside the commission and all the member states, and the latter will remain strongly committed to carrying out the project as planned, ensuring both its technical reliability and its efficiency, and of course guaranteeing the freedoms of the citizens. in reply to mrs ždanoka and mr guerreiro, i understand - and mrs lefrançois has stressed this - that many of you and parliament want further discussion to include new functionalities in the system, but it is essential to complete sis ii to enable these functionalities. so, that there is a political debate, about what these new features should be, it seems to me normal, as many of you have pointed out, it should not hinder the march towards the implementation of this new system. it would not be acceptable to abandon these features just because a system that is too old, in this case sis 1, does not allow it. the first thing to do before we have this debate is to have the system in place and the technological development done. in relation to the other speeches, which were mainly concerned with data protection, i would like to say - as the president pointed out, and we were participating with mr barrot this morning in the debate on the protection of personal data - that we do indeed want to continue the action which is being taken at european level, that we believe that the necessary guarantees you have asked for must be provided with regard to the protection of this data and with regard to trade with third countries. without going back to the general debate we had this morning, i would like to point out that it was also agreed, as far as the protection of this data is concerned, to refer to the recommendations of the european information systems controller so that these concerns are taken into account.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i also thank all the speakers and once again our rapporteur. i would like to remind you, following what minister jean-pierre jouyet said, that we are very attentive to compliance with data protection rules. the services are in regular contact, as you have pointed out, mr minister, with the services of the european data protection supervisor to ensure the proper integration of these rules in the development and management of sis ii. a visit by the european data protection supervisor to the strasbourg site is planned for the first half of 2009, before the migration takes place, to ensure that data protection security is respected. the converter being developed will also allow for the secure transfer of data from sis 1 to sis ii. mrs lefrançois rightly said that this migration should not be rushed, and she is right. we'll have to be very careful. in addition, the legal instruments contain specific provisions to ensure compliance with the data protection principles. i can say this about data protection, knowing that we must be extremely careful to ensure that this system is consistent with what we are trying to promote in europe in terms of data protection. i'll be back in a little bit. i fully understand mr marinescu, mr lax and mrs lefrançois, who have obviously stressed the concern that has arisen from these successive delays. as far as preparations for sis ii at central level are concerned, we are following developments very closely, we have put in place means to ensure very close monitoring and the commission services are particularly keen to ensure that there are sufficient resources to monitor the work of the contractors. of course, we can use the penalties provided for in the contracts, if necessary, as my predecessor did, by imposing a penalty of more than one million euros on one of the contractors. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rather than creating penalties, i want to make sure that the contractors are really efficient and that they are on time. however, the implementation of sis ii is not limited to central sis ii. it also requires - and i am glad that the french presidency is here because i know how committed it is to this - obviously important efforts on the part of the member states. to assist member states in their preparations at national level, the group of friends of sis ii, which was established by the slovenian presidency and confirmed by the french presidency, is extremely useful. this high-level group, in which the commission is actively involved, has the objective of monitoring the implementation of sis ii in the member states. it is only by working together that we can solve the problem. i simply want to say that we are not building a fortress europe with sis ii, we are simply making sure that the abolition of internal borders does not mean, for the european union, for the community of european citizens, an increased risk of insecurity, violence, terrorism. i cannot therefore allow you to say that by creating sis ii we are closing the doors to europe. that's not what this is about. it is simply a question of ensuring that, having abolished our internal borders, we can offer the european citizens an area - yes, i say it - an area of security and freedom. this is the president. in any case, i thank parliament and mr coehlo personally for putting so much effort into building sis ii, which is, once again, the key to the success of schengen.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the report by caroline lucas, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the 2006 international tropical timber agreement (11964/2007 c6-0326/2007 2006/0263 ((cns)) (a6-0313/2008); and the oral question to the commission on the 2006 international tropical timber agreement by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0074/2008 b6-0458/2008).
mr president, the tropical forests tonight, the financial crisis this week, and then the great pandemics, the flows of migrants, or forty countries in food crisis, all of this leads to the same conclusion: the great political problems of today are global and call for a global political response. of course, no one is at first sight disputing indonesia's permanent sovereignty over its tropical forest resources and its right to plant palm trees for palm oil, just as brazil has the right to replace its forest with zebus, just as gabon does. but it turns out that the exercise of territorial sovereign rights has negative consequences outside sovereign territories. deforestation, depletion, threats to flora and fauna, and the dumping of timber on the market are creating damage on a global scale. so the problem is not to say: "every human act that causes harm to other human beings obliges those through whose fault the problem has occurred to correct it". the problem is to deal with these issues at the legal level. how do we deal with this problem? where do we play? in europe, with wood labels, because they're certified as a kind of fair wood like we talk about fair coffee, with bilateral trade agreements? it is a necessary first step, but the solution must be global. we need much more than a multilateral agreement on wood because the men of the communities, because africans, latinos, asians also have the right to be paid for the multifunctionality they fulfil. that is why, mr president, we must raise these problems politically on a global level and find the concepts and paradigms for life to continue on our planet.
thank you for your transnational advocacy, mr. martinez.
the commission's vice-president - i'm afraid mrs. lucas did not hear me. because i think i've answered that, ma'am, in a very clear way. i've announced a text for october. so, is this the translation? have i not made myself clear? i wanted to make that point. i am used to listening to parliament, and i will echo the impatience of parliament, but at the same time i announced a few minutes ago that the deadline for october was coming!
i'm good with it. october is next week, so meet me next week. thank you. at the end of this debate i have received, pursuant to rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on international trade and development. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr costas botopoulos, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of article 121 of the european parliament's regulation (ec) no 2007/2266 (a6-0324/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday.
mr president, madam vice-president, the commission seems to be acting like a distracted pupil who is chasing after lost time before returning his copy. the social package exists, but it is incomplete and can only be regarded as a step towards the commission taking social issues into account. the president of the commission has not heeded the warning given by the citizens of france, the netherlands and ireland, which would unfortunately have been the same elsewhere in the event of a popular vote. these polls are a reminder of order. if europeans want more europe, it is to build a social project and not just to adopt even more technical directives. the internal market is certainly necessary, but it is far from the most important. the 2009 programme, like the previous ones, will miss the point. citizens do not expect the commission to simply supplement or even simplify legislation. they expect the commission to live up to the task assigned to it by the treaties, to be the engine, the think tank of the union. it is not enough for its president to be wise and silent, standing guard behind the president of the council. we expect the commission to act as a key player in the reflection on the nature of the social project we need. but what is the social project in this programme? the 2009 programme does not contain any serious errors, but it is not the programme our citizens need. mr president, it will be up to the new college to take up its responsibilities. i only hope that he will be less deaf to the people's calls than the present one.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you yourself said that you wanted to bring europe into the open, a europe that was real for our fellow citizens. the first budget line today, 36% of our budget, is devoted to our cohesion policy. if there is one area where our fellow citizens can see in a practical, concrete way what europe has achieved and what it wants to achieve, it is through the cohesion funds. 2009 will be a special year, it has been said, as it will see the renewal of the parliament and the commission. so naturally it will be a form of a blank year, a year off, in some areas. but in cohesion policy we cannot afford to take a break. we cannot stop the programmes that are in operation and, above all, we cannot stop efficiency. everyone has in mind the improvement of the concrete realities for our fellow citizens in portugal, spain, ireland and all the countries of europe through cohesion policies. the commission must therefore be able to present us with a concrete work programme for 2009 in this area, which is, as i said, the first budget line of the european union and also the most tangible part for the concrete results of our citizens, so that 2009 will not be a blank year but a year of progress in the framework of this 2007-13 programming. i thank you in advance, commissioner, and your colleagues for your proposals in this area.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, 2008-2009 is a pivotal year, because we are living in the context of an unprecedented economic crisis and because it is a year of european elections, and therefore unfortunately a year that is likely to be lost. we must therefore do everything we can to keep our companies competitive and to convince our citizens that europe is the right answer. unfortunately, we see that the programme is overloaded, too much, and that it is too late, and this is not because we have not warned about this for several years. on climate change, mrs wallström, you told us that we must pioneer smart growth. we all agree, but it's either a joint effort or it's not. europe cannot do it alone. she can't shoot herself in the foot. the consequences of the decisions we are about to take will be severe in economic and social terms. we cannot talk about an international climate agreement if china, the united states, brazil, india, don't commit to it. a deal without china's signature is not a deal. in the health sector, we are told about the pharmaceutical package. it's about time! we've been asking for this for years, this pharmaceutical package. it comes at the time when we are preparing for the elections. it's still a lot of frustration. how can we justify our slowness in combating counterfeit medicines when this is a real threat to health, a serious type of crime? we could have worked on traceability of medicines and a ban on repackaging a long time ago. finally, i think that consumer policy must be strengthened, especially in view of all the food crises and scandals in the world. so let us make sure, madam vice-president of the commission, that 2009 is not a lost year!
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, we are going to vote on the telecoms package, one of the most sensitive of the end of this parliamentary term. with my fellow rapporteurs on the background, pilar del castillo vera and malcom harbour, we have worked closely together to produce a coherent and effective proposal for those who will ultimately have to use these directives, namely the commission and the regulators, but also a positive and useful one for those who seek legal certainty, encouragement of investment and a dynamic and balanced market namely operators and their employees and those who are the first beneficiaries of many and quality services at a fair and affordable price consumers. these objectives, mr president, brought us all together, the rapporteur on the substance, the rapporteur on opinions and the rapporteur on fictitious reports, and that is why we have reached solid compromises, as is shown by the small number of amendments which remain to be voted on. i would like to express my sincere gratitude to all the rapporteurs, the chairmen of the committees on the substance of the matter and the committees for opinions, their secretariats and the political groups. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have taken an interest in this subject and enriched our work. i now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to support your rapporteurs by voting for them, so that they can have a clear and strong mandate in the co-decision period that is to follow. finally, i hope that the commission and the council will take a positive view of the version of the package as amended by parliament, which, while in many respects representing an alternative to the commission's original version, nevertheless offers some prospects for a rapprochement between our three institutions.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, we have a rather difficult situation with regard to amendment no 138, where three requests for a division vote have been tabled. i myself tabled an oral amendment to the first part of the amendment which is on the voting lists and which says: applying the principle that no restriction may be imposed on the fundamental rights and freedoms of end-users. so this is the first oral amendment. since then we have been looking for a solution that can be accepted by the political groups with regard to the third part of this amendment. i therefore propose a new oral amendment, in agreement with the signatories, in particular the chairman of the itre committee, mrs niebler, and others, which would have: save when public security is threatened where the ruling may be subsequent. this would therefore replace the third part and clarify the following point: the third part proposed by our colleague mr bono creates ambiguity about the expression exception. with the clarification provided in the oral amendment, we have an amendment which is legible and acceptable. it has nothing to do with the intellectual property which our colleague ruth hieronymi has just mentioned.
mr president, when there are racist cries of 'europe without muslims', i ask you to intervene! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the report raises the question: is it because the 'first generation' schengen system did not work or was at least ineffective in guaranteeing security within the schengen area that a 'second generation' is being developed to make up for these shortcomings? unfortunately, no. this second generation is just a more modern version of a system that is already inoperative. according to figures provided by the european commission, 400 000 illegal immigrants cross the union's borders every year. even if biometric data were soon available and usable for the registration and return of illegals already registered as illegal immigrants, the european union would be unable, in the absence of internal and external border controls of the member states, to put an end to the mass immigration it is experiencing along its coasts or land borders. the schengen computer system will always be a useless gadget as long as the dangerous schengen agreements exist.
in writing. europe wants to protect itself against shipping accidents and pollution of its seas and oceans. we welcome that. the recent tragic examples of the prestige and erika shipwrecks are a reminder of our duty to take precautions, to control the safety of ships, but also to be responsible in the event of an environmental disaster. the proposal for a directive on post-accident investigations should also be mentioned in particular. for the first time, it was agreed to set up an investigative body to decide, in an independent and impartial manner, whether to open a safety investigation to determine the causes and circumstances of an accident. the intentions are good, let us only hope that they will not remain unchanged in the face of the enormous financial interests at stake.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my belgian colleague, mr dirk sterckx, on the regulation of maritime traffic. since the sinking of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, we have been waiting in vain for european solutions to prevent such disasters from happening again. the risk is not diminishing, but increasing day by day: maritime traffic is expected to triple in the next thirty years. despite this alarming observation, a majority of member states did not hesitate to "leak" the main advances proposed by the european commission, and defended by the european socialists. the idea of an insurance scheme which, through a financial guarantee, was to make it easier for victims of maritime disasters to be compensated disappears. voting for this text is therefore opposing the cynicism and irresponsibility of the states. parliament can be proud of its unity, because its vote today clearly affirms its commitment to safer and less polluted european waters.
in writing. with our vote today, we have reminded the council that the erika iii package is a whole and must be considered as such. that is why i have agreed to include some of the amendments in the savary report in my report on port state control. in addition, returning to our first reading positions, we refused to follow the council in abandoning the two important proposals on flag state control and civil liability of shipowners, on which we did not receive common positions. the french presidency, whose immense work and constant commitment to finding a solution to this problem i commend, has convinced the council to resume work on these two missing proposals. i am convinced that it will succeed in unblocking this situation and that we will find, through conciliation, a comprehensive agreement on the erika iii package. i hope that this procedure can be started quickly so that we can reach a conclusion before the end of the year. maritime safety must remain a priority on our european political agenda and it is with this will that i will continue to defend our proposals.
in writing. in the aftermath of the erika and prestige oil tanker disasters, the european socialists led the fight for 'high-end' maritime safety legislation in the eu. the seven reports in this 'third maritime safety package' are a decisive step towards this objective, if they are not emptied of their content by the council! since 2007 and the first reading, the council has rejected most of parliament's recommendations on the other five. for this second reading, and after intensive amendment work, parliament reaffirms its absolute priority for the establishment of a european maritime policy with a very high level of protection on: - flag state control; - the community system for monitoring maritime traffic; - the liability of passenger carriers; - inspections on ships and investigative bodies; - the designation of an independent authority responsible for ships in distress; - the application of the polluter-pays principle to the maritime sector. i strongly support this message to the council. i call on nicolas sarkozy and dominique bussereau to ensure that the french presidency establishes the birth certificate of a virtuous maritime area in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the trautmann report because it focuses on the social, cultural and economic value of radio frequencies and on better management of the radio spectrum for the benefit of all operators and consumers. this first reading also makes it possible to propose a balanced alternative to the european commission's initial proposal by placing the commission in the position of arbiter and not judge with regard to competition control. it is important that national regulatory authorities can continue to play their full role. i regret, however, that mrs trautmann's oral amendment was adopted. the amendment, which is apparently consensual, introduces in practice a hierarchy of fundamental rights for the benefit of end-users by prohibiting any preventive action without prior judicial notice in relation to the communication and distribution of online content. the tragedy that occurred yesterday in a finnish school and the spread of horrific images on the internet should now, more than ever, call for us to put in place reasonable and proportionate prevention mechanisms. that was the whole point of the cooperation amendment which i supported and i therefore deplore the current status quo in the european parliament.
in writing. more than 20 years after the first agreement on tropical forests was concluded, it is clear that over-exploitation and illegal logging continue. it was therefore imperative to revise the agreement to take better account of these new objectives. this is now a reality: the international tropical timber agreement, negotiated by the commission in 2006 at the un conference on trade and development (unctad), illustrates these new concerns for the sustainable and lawful exploitation of forest areas. i welcome the integration of these objectives. however, the aim is not to impose the costs which these new provisions will inevitably entail on producers in the countries concerned. the international community must therefore set up an appropriate system of financial compensation. i also hope that the commission will go further and draw up comprehensive legislation so that only timber and derived products from forests managed in a sustainable manner and harvested legally reach the european market. this is the only way to encourage producers to produce legally and in a way that respects the environment and thus to encourage the rational and sustainable exploitation of tropical forests worldwide.
in writing. it is necessary to develop our relations with india, which, with its population of over one billion and a rapidly expanding economy, is a balancing power in the face of the muslim world and china. but the resolution proposed, which reflects the views of mr sarkozy and the european commission, is contrary to the interests of the nations of europe. the 'comprehensive free trade agreement' we are calling for is part of the process of destroying our economies and social systems, which are being put in competition with countries which practice social dumping. the demand for india to have a seat on the un security council is also part of the un reform proposals, which aim in particular to remove france and britain from their status as permanent members of the security council and to give it to the europe of brussels. furthermore, presenting india as "a model of religious pluralism" is a provocation to the christians massacred in orissa. india is defending its national interests and its millennia-old values. to have a balanced relationship with it, our states must do the same. they will do so only in a different europe: the europe of sovereign nations based on the christian and greco-roman values of its civilization.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the state of the world financial system and its effects on the european economy.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, if the main european leaders wanted to illustrate the gap between them and our fellow citizens, they would not react any differently from what they have just done about the financial crisis after the meeting of finance ministers on 14 september last. what are the main measures announced, apart from a positive but very insufficient increase in eib loans to small and mediumsized enterprises? they are summed up in three points. firstly, as regards the hope of a budgetary stimulus, i quote, 'we have ruled out any european stimulus plan' (jean-claude juncker). we will apply the stability pact, the whole pact, nothing but the pact. secondly, as regards the process of deregulation under way, i quote again: 'we must reject any slowing down of structural reforms' (christine lagarde), 'everything that can be done to increase the flexibility of the economy is worthwhile' (jean-claude trichet), 'the labour market, the market for goods and services must be reformed, competition must be given greater scope' (jean-claude juncker). finally, as regards the question that is on everyone's mind, who should pay for the damage? i always quote, 'banking supervision must not place excessive demands on credit institutions' (jean-claude trichet), but 'everything must be done to ensure that wages do not fall below the mark' (jean-claude juncker). we want to send them this message: get out of your bubble, if i may say so, put yourself in the place of the people. they see, on the one hand, the big money men mobilizing their whole being for the giant global speculators - 110 billion euros from the ecb alone - and, on the other, it is the employees who are in the crosshairs. you're trying to reassure the markets, but you're making companies desperate. the truth is that in the name of free movement of capital and the so-called open market economy where competition is free, they have collectively nurtured diabolical mechanisms that they themselves no longer control. i would remind you that five months after the subprime crisis broke out, mr trichet, speaking on behalf of the ten leading central banks in the world, was still talking about simple, i quote, 'market corrections' and was announcing, i quote again, 'robust growth, even if there is a slight slowdown'. three months later he was arguing before the economic and monetary affairs committee of parliament that, as he put it, 'the private sector should be given a chance to self-regulate'. what insight! if a system sees its own creatures escaping it, it is in an existential crisis. so if we want to avoid further and more painful breakdowns, we must dare to break up. firstly, we believe that we must break with the conception of productivity based on lower wage costs and social expenditure. the continuing downward trend in the share of wages in value added must be reversed. the source of inflation is not there, it is on the side of the financial operators' turbulence. secondly, we must break with the absolute dependence on financial markets to finance the economy, because they no longer finance it, they poison it. the european central bank, through its monetary creation, has a decisive role to play in directing money towards a socially efficient economy, one which creates jobs, promotes training, develops public services, produces sustainable products and useful services, gives full priority to research and development, respects public enterprises and the general interest and puts cooperation above economic warfare. but to do that, the mission of the european central bank must be changed. it must refinance the banks at very different interest rates depending on whether the loans are for the sound economy i have just mentioned or, on the contrary, for unsound financial operations. the conditions for access to credit must be very favourable in the first case and extremely dissuasive in the second. at the same time, strict controls on banks and funds are of course necessary and a tax on financial capital movements must be introduced. finally, we must work towards the re-foundation of international economic institutions, as president lula has just rightly and forcefully called for at the united nations. thirdly, we must break with the complacency and condescension of a small elite explaining to the citizen that there is no other choice worth making than his own. let us at least discuss all this seriously with an open mind and a great sense of responsibility. then the crisis would have been useful.
madam president, mr minister, we regret the absence of the minister in charge. mr commissioner, the socialists are supporters of the market, but they know that in a market there are honest players, there are thieves and therefore there is a need for gendarmes. it is astonishing that when you try to set up modern gendarmes to regulate modern thieves, well all of a sudden you are accused of being archaic. we need modern supervision and regulation. and for that, there is not too much risk that we rush and take the risk of inappropriate or rushed legislation like sarbanes-oxley because we are more than a year after the outbreak of the crisis and, when commissioner charlie mccreevy came on september 11, 2007 before the economic and monetary committee, he had pointed the finger, as the main scapegoat, at the rating agencies. it's been over a year and we still haven't gotten a proposal. i do not think that this is better regulation. as for the roadmap you drew up in october and december 2007, i have it right here, pointed it out, point by point. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the president of the french republic has announced an initiative: he will denounce those responsible and gather everyone around the table to discuss. but what will he discuss? to take back the roadmap that has already been defined by the financial stability forum and that no one knows how to implement because, in the financial stability forum there are no authorities to implement this roadmap? while he himself, as a first reaction to the crisis, rushed to london in the autumn of 2007 to validate gordon brown's strategy of setting up an early warning system, rather than strengthening europe's armed wing, the one that mr barroso is defending today in washington, and i hope that he will be able to force his commissioner charlie mccreevy to make the european arm in the field of financial market regulation and supervision as strong as necessary...
i am sorry, i interrupted mrs kauppi and i interrupted mrs berès. i am generally fair, mr. member of parliament.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the minister for his availability and his great competence in all areas. europe cannot continue to suffer periodically the consequences of crises which have their origin in the functioning of american capitalism, as i believe has been widely said by the colleagues who have spoken before me. this position is not unfriendly to the united states. it proceeds from the obvious observation that the crisis is the result of serious dysfunctions which require vigorous remedies. self-regulation is not enough. but today, the crisis is global. as you said earlier, mr minister, we need to introduce new elements, regulations and regulations, and assess the balance sheets and solvency of banks, credit rating agencies, sovereign wealth funds, remuneration, transparency, supervision, accounting standards. all this deserves to be studied and improved. it is necessary, and this has been said many times, to restore confidence in the financial system, which is one of the essential elements of economic life. in this respect, and i do not share the criticisms that have been made, the french presidency has been reactive. president sarkozy's remarks, speaking on behalf of the european union, sent strong signals to new york and the enlarged g8 meeting he is proposing is a really important point which will bring together the various powers involved in the economic world today. the european union is not the only one to have to deal with the problems of the world. europe must move forward, of course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the economy is global, so the rules must be global. there is still a lot of work to be done and i am confident that the proposals you have just announced, mr minister, will lead to solutions in the coming weeks or months. it would be an illusion to think that these questions can be settled in a few minutes.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with astonishment to the positions of the socialist-communists who tell us that this is the bankruptcy of the system. they have a short memory, and they have bankrupted all the economies they have administered in the 20th century! the problem is global and the response must therefore be european. on the financial question, commissioner, i would like to know whether or not you will implement article 105 (6) of the treaty establishing the european communities, which provides that you can propose to the council - which must then decide unanimously - to entrust the european central bank with a task of supervising credit institutions. i think that today the public feels that it is time for us to monitor the way in which prudential systems are controlled. we will not build our internal market if we do not have a european regulatory policy.
author. - mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy prices has many negative impacts, the most visible of which is the increase in the cost of living for our citizens. they highlight once again our dependence on energy. to reduce fluctuations and especially rises in energy prices, various measures must be taken. i have three thoughts for you. the first angle of attack concerns the cyclical control of energy prices which should be implemented now, i.e. the member states should develop fiscal mechanisms to try to erase the price increase in the budget of companies, in the budget of households. they should also encourage national social measures to tackle energy poverty in low-income households. the second angle of attack is to work on the prices of the energy we import. what do you propose to ensure that the european union speaks with one voice with the producing countries - we always say 'speak with one voice' - so that these neighbourhood policies or partnership agreements give energy the right dimension? let me suggest, perhaps naively, a solution that would soothe our relations in the negotiations with russia. why not interconnect the nabucco pipeline project with the south stream project? perhaps we could then make our relations easier. the third angle of attack is to reduce or even eliminate - ideally - imports. to do that, we need to break this symbiotic relationship between increased growth and increased energy consumption. it is crucial that our growth does not automatically generate a proportional increase in energy consumption. of course, we must develop renewable or low-carbon energy sources. the report by mr turmes is a step in that direction. energy efficiency is also a source of savings, but it is not yet sufficiently implemented. the texts that are going to be tabled are therefore more than expected. the emphasis should be on the physical and technological storage capacities of energy, but also on the vectors of energy consumption. can you tell us, minister, if you have any hope that the energy/climate package will be adopted in the next few weeks? what are the trends towards an ambitious package meeting these few objectives?
mr president, we always talk about renewable energy when we talk about prices. well, we know that it is going to cost us an arm and a leg and so financial responsibility regarding energy prices often has gone with the wind. what about this 80%? what about meeting the needs of tomorrow’s increasing energy consumption? look at nord stream. we are just talking about the environmental standards regarding nord stream. well, that is a little bit like looking at the standards of the rope that is a noose around your neck, because nord stream and such projects are reducing our energy independence when we have to increase our independence. so, what are we going to do? the only really responsible answer is the nuclear one: it is independent, it is cheap, it is competitive and the price is foreseeable – it is also emission-free and russia-free.
mr president, 27% of men, 38% of women, one in four children, are now considered overweight or obese in europe, and there are 400 000 new cases a year. it is a real scourge that is developing in europe. information and prevention are certainly the right answers because, unfortunately, we are facing a public health problem, which is also becoming a social problem. unfortunately, obesity is often associated with poverty and exclusion. we have talked a lot about information and prevention. i shall not go back to what has been said about food labelling, the role of public authorities, school canteens, sports facilities, the dissemination of good information, healthy eating and the need for daily physical exercise. i would like to emphasize the vital role of health professionals, who are there to detect the risks of chronic diseases associated with obesity, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and the consequences that these have, of course, on these overweight people. prevention requires the exchange of good practice, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. studies have shown, for example, that a waist circumference of more than 88 cm in women, outside of pregnancy, and more than 102 cm in men define abdominal obesity and represent a health risk, regardless of height. it is therefore a very simple marker and still insufficiently taken into account in medical consultation. so, measuring waist circumference should become a simple benchmark for all patients, prompting early detection of associated risk factors such as glucose intolerance, which is a precursor to prediabetes, excess cholesterol, triglycerides, high blood pressure, and we know that all of these, unfortunately, are also indicators of the development of alzheimer's disease. these are all reasons why we really need to rely on the role of health professionals.
the author is not the author. - madam president, this is the key issue for the cultural economy of the future. in fact, despite the existence of the directive on copyright in the information society, the situation in the area of collective management of copyright and related rights, when it comes to online exploitation, is extremely complex, due in particular to the territorial nature of copyright and the absence of a pan-european licence. this situation has been further complicated by the lack of a coherent policy on the part of the european commission, in which the directorate-general responsible for the single market and intellectual property and the directorate-general responsible for competition often act on their own without a global vision of the sector, especially in relation to the interests of creators in europe. by refusing to legislate, by ignoring the various resolutions of the european parliament and by choosing to try to regulate the sector by way of recommendation or administrative decisions, the directorate-general for the internal market has created a climate of legal uncertainty. in this situation, the directorate-general for competition intervened by initiating proceedings against one of the players in the sector who sought to act in accordance with the commission's 2005 recommendation. the commission therefore took this decision in july against cisac. it does not provide for financial penalties but it does tend to change the way in which cisac and its member companies operate. this situation reflects the fact that the european commission has chosen to ignore the warnings expressed by the european parliament, in particular in its resolution of 13 march 2007, which also contained concrete proposals for controlled competition and for the protection and promotion of minority crops in the european union. since then, moreover, the number of initiatives has increased, of which only one is of a legislative nature: a fanciful review of the recommendation on collective management companies, an evaluation report and a green paper on the 2001 directive, the challenge of private copying, free access by decision of the directorate-general for research for 20% of the calls for tenders of the seventh fp7 programme, the extension of the duration of the rights of performers, whose directive will be examined, etc. the legal committee therefore asks the following question: does the commission not think it would be better to ensure that the changes imposed, for example on the cisac operator, are the subject of a broad consultation involving all the interested parties, so as to put an end to the inconsistency of the current legal situation resulting from divergent positions of the commission? will the european commission reconsider its policy in this area in the light of parliament's resolution of 13 march 2007 in order to find a comprehensive approach that takes into account not only the interests of users, but also the interests of rights holders and the creative community? we believe that the cisac case shows that the approach taken by the european commission through the use of non-binding soft law provisions, as they are called, or purely administrative decisions, is inconsistent and contrary to the principle of legal certainty, because the parties harmed by this approach have no recourse and no discussion. tomorrow the commission intends to continue on this soft law path by adopting another recommendation, this time on creative content online, which will also deal with the enforcement of cross-border licences. it will not be a recommendation in codecision. does the commission intend to involve the european parliament in the drafting of this recommendation in an effective manner? or, in an area so crucial to the future of europe's economy and culture, will the commission once again ignore the representatives of the states and the people? that is why i make two suggestions. firstly, as the commission has done with private copying, it should set up a platform with all the stakeholders, and finally the file should be opened and examined by all those who need to know about it. the european parliament will be speaking anyway. the committee on legal affairs has just set up an ad hoc working group on copyright, the aim of which is to provide all stakeholders with a clear and long-term global vision of intellectual and artistic property and its role in the knowledge and cultural economy. this group will meet for the first time tomorrow morning.
madam president, commissioner, you have shown a great deal of sensitivity in listening to and paying attention to these matters. i would like to ask you a question and make a request. the question is how parliament will be involved in the work you are considering. the demand is that if a platform is set up, it seems to me essential that the conclusions, its conclusions, are not drawn in advance but that there is a real debate, and it also seems to me necessary that the members of this platform are representative of economic and cultural diversity.
author. - madam president, commissioner, in the field of accounting standards, as the european parliament now knows, you have a certain capacity for creativity, as does the theodule committee. when we asked you at the beginning of this parliamentary term about the status and role of efrag, you invented the round table, which everyone now admits has not fulfilled its role. in the face of the iascf trustees' proposals to set up a monitoring group, if a number of members do not approve of you, you propose to set up an international consultative group of auditors. the european parliament is now used to your practices. when we alerted you, taking the initiative of a report on the governance issues of the iascf, you rushed to arbitrate, with your japanese and american colleagues, and with the oicv, by drawing up, on 7 november 2007, a press release, a statement in which you claimed to arbitrate all governance issues rather than waiting for the opportunity to be able to base yourself on the legitimacy and authority of a position developed by the democratic representation of the european union, in other words, the european parliament. when the european parliament drew up this position on the initiative of our rapporteur, mr alexander radwan, you preferred, last march, to postpone this debate until april for reasons which concern you and for which you alone take responsibility. when, on the basis of these proposals in april, you had the power and the opportunity to arbitrate what the european union's position on the international scene might be, on the basis of paragraph 9 of this resolution which i read: 'recognize that, as it did in april 2006 by agreeing a road map with the us authorities, the commission, by the aforementioned declaration of 7 november 2007, sought to impose solutions in advance where efficiency and legitimacy call for an open process of consultation and debate, to which this resolution could contribute', you preferred, in the secrecy of your cabinet or your departments, to work out a solution without consulting the council or this european parliament. what have you done, commissioner, since 24 april, when we voted on this resolution? we asked you at the time to speak in front of the imf and the world bank. since then, others have asked you to replace the basle committee with european supervisors in the supervisory structures and monitoring groups for the iascf. in the face of such a problem, you have again devised a theodule committee, the international advisory group of auditors. you say: 'we must not increase the number of members of this monitoring group, because then the authority would be diluted and we would no longer have any competence to control the trustees'. the proposal of the trustees is based on a composition of seven members. your proposal is based on a composition of five members plus one observer plus two members that you would put on this international committee of auditors that would be consulted. our proposal is to strengthen the group of seven proposed by the trustees, including what should be there. the number argument is not one, since, at the same time, it is proposed to increase the number of members of the iasb, the board itself, from fourteen to sixteen. so today, commissioner, we say two things to you. on the one hand, if you really want to reform the governance of the iasb, we agree, we asked you to, but consult us, partner with us, upstream, not at the last minute. do not tell us that you had to work urgently in august, when we have been calling you since last autumn and you have known the position of the european parliament since april! and then we tell you that in the work programme of the iasb and the iascf, there is a second phase, in which the whole system must be reviewed, including the conditions for the constitution of the iascf and we propose that you take advantage of this moment to clearly set the conditions of balance, of governance, of the whole system, with a view to finally having a system of governance that is up to the challenges that we have today. in short, what accounting standards do we need to have in order to have a financial market where the accounting standards are read in line with the economic reality of the situations we are experiencing here or elsewhere?
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy express the views of the members who are interested in this question. as you have said, everyone is aware of the importance of accounting standards and the reform that is being announced. the opportunity has now come to clarify and translate into action what you have said, commissioner. i make a proposal: this resolution is severe and this is deserved, but we must not kill the sinner. finally, it would be possible to take a few days to try to establish a protocol between the commission and parliament which would clearly define parliament's information, its participation in this reflection and its positions, and to that end we should postpone the vote for a few days. the epp will be putting forward a proposal tomorrow to postpone the vote on the resolution so that a genuine consultation can begin between parliament and the commission on this important subject. it is clear that if nothing were done during this period to make up for lost time and possible lack of information, we would have to vote on a resolution which would be the one proposed to us today, with the severity of the judgments it contains. i hope that in these difficult circumstances of the financial crisis, to which accounting standards are not entirely foreign, everyone will understand that it is a question of finding a practical and rapid solution that makes the desirable developments possible.
author. - madam president, commissioner, what have you done since 24 april to take account of the european parliament's position? what have you done since 24 april to discuss with the european parliament the right solutions for steering the governance of the trustees? we know very well that the iasb is a drunken ship in the hands of the auditors who produced these fair values, which nobody knows how they were elected when there is no market. and today, the issue of the governance of the iascf is the one we have to debate. you are proposing us in haste when we propose reasonable solutions to integrate the governance of these structures into a global governance, responsible to set up consultative committees. is that reasonable? i do not think that simply involving the european parliament at some stage in the process will be enough to resolve the matter. the proposal you are making to us for the governance of the iascf is not satisfactory. we are waiting for another proposal from you and, possibly, waiting for the second phase of the consultation, of the revision of this governance if necessary.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following my own-initiative report on health care services, which was adopted by parliament on 23 may 2007, the commission, as part of the social package, is proposing a directive which is solely focused on patients' rights in crossborder health care. i can only deplore the lack of ambition in this text which fails to take account of the many internal challenges to be solved in order to combat growing inequalities in health, namely: population ageing, social inequalities, spatial segregation, problems of medical demography. the council and parliament cannot therefore be satisfied, on a subject so fundamental to the citizens of europe, with a mere codification of the judgments of the court of justice. we need to find balancing elements that ensure both the right of patients - who are not mere consumers - to cross-border care, and the protection of equal access to quality care for all with supportive care, ensuring social and territorial cohesion in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. a worrying shadow area remains on definitions such as prior authorisation or the concept of hospital care. clarification is needed to avoid discrimination which creates a two-tiered health system in europe instead of asserting the added value of europe. health is not a price but a cost, and the directive - and this is correct - reaffirms the principle of subsidiarity on the one hand and increased cooperation to pool medical research networks or patient information centres on the other. the debate will be engaged, it must be in-depth, fruitful, not rushed and shared by all the partners concerned, with the aim of building a true european social model.
mr president, this proposal for a directive is in the interests of patients and it is this humane approach that i welcome here with the commissioner and the minister. i also welcome the improvement in cooperation between member states in respect of national health systems and i hope that this opportunity for europeans will be amplified by the good information they need. efficiency and humanity are what i like about this draft directive.
president of the council. - mr president, allow me to say a personal word, mr president, to express how pleased i was to meet my colleagues from the committee on social affairs, chairman andersson, anne van lancker, ria oomen-ruijten, jiří maštálka and many others. i would like to extend my cordial greetings to them. john bowis, for the epp, put the question in the right place, asking: 'what does europe do for me?' he raised the question of a europe of proximity and was followed by many speakers such as dagmar roth-behrendt for the socialist party and jules maaten for the alde. and finally, many participants insisted, following john bowis, that patients prevailed over states and systems. yes, of course. but this is not about ultimately pitting patients, states and health insurance systems against each other because destabilizing health insurance systems would have terrible repercussions on the organization of care and, precisely, on the patients we want to protect. that is why i will reply to dagmar roth-behrendt that the question is not about the right of patients to move within the european union, because that is obvious, that right is fundamental. the question is the one raised by the directive, the question of reimbursement and the conditions for reimbursement, the question of whether or not one is entitled to reimbursement. article 152 of the treaty is clear, states are free to organise and finance the provision of care as they wish. the central issue in the prior authorization procedure is the balance and soundness of the accounts of the solidarity and health insurance systems of the member states, especially the poorest ones. this text reminds us of this responsibility and, under no circumstances, can this directive be a means for the states to exempt themselves from these responsibilities. so, indeed, jean lambert said: 'cross-border care is not an end in itself' and derek roland clark said that perhaps we should ensure that the provisions of the new directive do not ultimately benefit only a few of the richest, best trained and best informed patients, while the imbalances would then obviously hit the poorest patients. the crucial issue, the issue which is finally being debated and which deserves to be discussed in depth between the commission and the council, is the question of prior authorization for hospital care, because this is where the greatest risks of deregulation of national systems lie. jean lambert asked whether the draft directive was compatible with the regulation on the coordination of social security. the compatibility of these two methods of reimbursement has been confirmed by the court. we must therefore ensure that these two paths are properly linked. the current draft directive gives priority to the application of the regulation, which seems reasonable. however, the patient's freedom of choice must continue to apply if, for reasons other than financial, he prefers the path opened by case law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. when we see the difficulties that this simple text has to overcome, we imagine that having proposed such a broad text would have been the best way forward in relation to the solutions we have to consider for very concrete problems, such as the reimbursement of health care when travelling to europe for study, work or even just for holidays. in the same way, this is not a directive on health services, whether we regret it or welcome it. so there is no point in waving a so-called "bolkestein" scarecrow. that is not the subject of this directive. the directive must therefore allow us, once its fundamental principles have been reaffirmed, and i have noted them, to preserve, as is the case between the commission and the council, but also with many members of parliament in all these committees, a certain form of regulation as regards respect for these possibilities for the patient. as regards prior authorisation for cross-border healthcare, member states should remain in control of the determination of their care basket. it is equally important that the state which imposes a number of conditions on access to care for public health reasons - think for example of the referring doctor system or what is called gatekeeping in english - that these systems can be respected and implemented when one uses a health system in another country than their own. of course, this discussion on the directive should not be dissociated from the forthcoming commission communication and the proposal for a council recommendation on community action in the field of rare diseases, and i believe that it is quite possible to have these discussions head on. another topic which was raised by many members was the interoperability of health information systems. this directive can help to do so from a legal point of view. of course, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are only just beginning the dialogue, the discussion on this subject, which will have to cover such broad areas as data protection, the transparency of the systems, the scope. but, once again, since the directive affirms legal certainty, we could move forward on the road to interoperability, which does not mean uniqueness but simply harmonization and better compatibility. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the density and richness of the contributions which have greatly enlightened our debate.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a very interesting discussion. let me say that very often we hear the question: how can we bring the citizen nearer to the european union? this is one example of how we can make the citizen feel that the european union is doing something for him or her. under the present system, there are many inequalities. with the clear legal framework provided by the draft directive concerning citizens and the various issues we are trying to give clear information to the citizen about their rights and how they can exercise them. it is true that there are concerns. i listened very carefully to your concerns, and i am sure that during the course of the debate and the deliberations we shall have, we have to address these concerns so that the end result will be something which is really of benefit to the citizen. this is not a bolkestein directive ii – far from it – and we should never think that this is so. it is about patients’ rights and how to exercise those rights. we are not trying to harmonise health systems. member states can continue to exercise and regulate their health systems, and they can decide for themselves what benefits they want to offer to their citizens, and to what extent. we are not trying to encourage health tourism. we are not trying to give citizens the chance to have their faces and their bodies fixed; rather, we are trying to give citizens the right to have proper health care when they are sick and they need it. nor do we expect a big exodus of european citizens from their home state to another member state. according to the calculations and to the impact assessment that we have, only a very small percentage of citizens wish to go abroad. why? because they want to have the care that they need nearer to their families, they want to speak their own language and to be in a familiar environment. however, there are cases when they need some extra health care which their home state cannot provide. this is a right that we give them – this extra right to have an informed choice and decide for themselves where they go for their health treatment. indeed, we have had encouragement from the european court of justice to legislate. we cannot leave it all the time to the court to decide about the rights of the patient case by case. this is not just. how many european citizens can afford a lawyer and can afford to go to court? only a very few. therefore, we must offer solutions to all the patients, give them the right information and let them decide for themselves what they need. this is a time for all of us to work together – the council, the commission and members of parliament – to find the best possible solutions for patients. (applause)
i am very grateful to the commissioner, and i think the applause in this house reflects parliament's satisfaction. i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. i would inform you that the epp-ed group has now withdrawn its own. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what you just said, that's the very nonsense that the majority of this house voted against our votes. you made the call! now, you can go to hell with your chairman and change that. (applause from the centre and from the left)
president of the econ committee. mr president, i shall be speaking as chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the current financial crisis, everyone understands that the issue of accounting standards and their possible procyclical nature is a major issue. the governance of the structures that develop these accounting standards is a major issue. the european commission, already called upon by the radwan report on these issues, has chosen to draw up a proposal which does not involve those responsible for the stability of financial markets, which is drawn up in haste with us authorities at the end of their term of office and which is rejected by all the candidates for the us presidential election, without consulting the council or the european parliament. in a spirit of compromise, in a spirit of openness, we are willing to reopen this discussion if the commission itself agrees to reconsider its proposal and to hear the proposals of the european parliament. that is why i would like the commission to be able to speak and to commit itself to reconsider its proposal. in that case we could support mrs kauppi's proposal.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the resolution on the annual debate on the progress made in 2007 in the area of freedom, security and justice. this is a very high-quality text which strongly recalls the need for the rapid adoption of the treaty of lisbon, which will strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice insofar as it provides for fundamental improvements in the legitimacy and effectiveness of eu action. it also called on the commission and the council to define the new priorities for the next multiannual programme for the elsj for the period 2010-14. it also proposes a number of measures which are essential in the field of fundamental rights and citizenship, border protection and immigration and asylum. these are the priorities that our group has advocated and are largely reflected in the european pact on immigration and asylum, which must be implemented through concrete action.
president of the commission. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all express my appreciation of the role of the french presidency of the council. as the minister has just said, in the midst of the french presidency of the council, there was first the crisis between russia and georgia and now an unprecedented crisis, this world financial crisis. a crisis which has not its origins in europe - it has come from the other side of the atlantic - a crisis for which, in europe, we do not yet - and i emphasize 'not yet' - have the necessary rules which would allow us to have a typically european response. i am witness to the great efforts made by the french presidency and president sarkozy to find a european response to this emergency. the gravity of the financial crisis is clear to all of us and it is absolutely right that it should be at the heart of the european council meeting next week. addressing this crisis is an important test for the financial sector, for the member states, for europe and its institutions and for the international financial institutions. there is a wide variety of players involved banks and other financial institutions, supervisors, the ecb and other central banks, the national governments, the commission so we need coordination. and events are moving very quickly so we need speed. last week i called for a coordinated european response, because i am convinced that, without it, it will be much harder for europe to overcome this crisis. today i am encouraged by the determination of member states to work together, as demonstrated by the statement of the 27 leaders of the member states and myself on monday, the eurogroup and the ecofin meetings. but i am not yet satisfied we can and we must do more. in particular i urge member states to make a real effort at coordination to improve cooperation amongst themselves and with european institutions. yes, public intervention has taken place largely at national level because this is where the money and competences are. this reflects the fact that we are a union of states, not one single state, with situations different at least to a certain degree. member states' actions have in most cases been effective. but member states need to act on the basis of common principles and within a commonly agreed framework and to take into account the cross-border effects of their actions. i take this opportunity to welcome the measures announced today by the united kingdom, which are in line with the set of principles agreed yesterday at ecofin. of course, there are also many things that we are doing and still need to do at the level of the european institutions, both in the short and medium to longer term. the proposals i have in mind are concrete, practical and realistic. let me be clear: tempting as it may be, this is not the time or the place for political posturing and grandstanding, for announcing grand initiatives that have no chance of being followed through. markets would penalize this kind of behaviour immediately and the costs will be borne by economic operators and mainly by taxpayers. this is the time for ambition combined with realism and responsibility. in this context let me pay tribute to the ecb, which has shown itself an assured and effective global player, with the euro a key steadying force. the commission has played its role to the full. state aid and competition rules have been shown to be essential to give guarantees of a level playing field. the risk of action in one member state spilling over with negative consequences for another makes these rules more essential than ever. at the same time the commission has shown that it is fully capable of acting with the necessary speed and flexibility. i welcome the fact that this beneficial role of state aid rules and the way the commission is applying them is recognised in the ecofin council conclusions. the commission will shortly issue guidance setting out the broad framework within which the state aid compatibility of recapitalisation and guarantee schemes could be rapidly assessed. in the legislative area, we will come next week with two proposals. firstly to promote the convergence of deposit guarantee schemes. strengthened and more common rules here will be an important part of the exit strategy from the crisis. i am encouraged by the ecofin council, which has followed our proposal to at least double it, setting the common minimum threshold at eur 50 000, with most member states even going up to eur 100 000. secondly, we will come with a proposal to make sure that european financial institutions are not disadvantaged vis-à-vis their international competitors in terms of accounting rules and of their interpretation. last week i had a meeting with the representatives of the european banks, who were unanimous in telling me that this was a serious problem for them. the commission's role has been to promote awareness of the need to act and to create political momentum, and it seems that, now, the obstacles raised by some member states have finally disappeared. then there is the medium and longer term: the measures needed to bring stability and sustainability back into financial markets. i have said it before and i say it again: apart from liquidity, we need also to inject credibility into the current economic situation. fire-fighting is not enough. here commission work has been under way since the start of the crisis a year ago. member states need to show that we have learned the lessons needed to build the right regulatory framework to minimise the risks of crisis. progress on the ecofin road map agreed last year will need to be closely monitored. let me highlight three issues in particular. first i would like the council and parliament to give real priority to our proposal of last week on capital requirements. second, we will come next week with the proposal we announced on rating agencies. again, i know i can rely on your support to fast-track work on it. third, we will also review our december 2004 recommendation on executive pay, which was unfortunately ignored by member states or, to be fair, only one member state decided to follow to some extent the recommendations that the commission put forward in december 2004. this is a good illustration of the kind of resistance we have been facing in this area in the last few years. the last point is of a more systemic nature. we also need to have a further look at european-level supervision in the single financial market. there are more than 8 000 banks in the european union, but two thirds of total european union bank assets are held in 44 cross-border institutions. some operate in as many as 15 member states. this is the single market at work but cross-border banks have to deal with different systems of supervision in each member state, and national supervisors are not able to address the entirety of the banking activity beyond the national borders. it makes sense to remove the mismatch between a continental-scale market and national systems of supervision. when a cross-border bank is under pressure, finding quick solutions with several national supervisors in parallel is possible, as the past weeks have shown but, honestly, it is not easy. i know that we will face an uphill struggle with some member states on this. the current debates in the council on the solvency ii directive show the large degree of resistance that any attempt at improving cross-border supervision still faces. what we have proposed in solvency ii and in the capital requirements directive is the strict minimum we need. indeed, i am convinced we will have to go much further. so it is important to underline this point. when the commission speaks in favour of a common approach to supervision in europe, we do not do it because there is any agenda for grabbing more competences. we do it because there is a reality and the reality is that almost two-thirds of the banking assets in the european union already have a cross-border dimension. that means a european dimension, and we need to respond to this european dimension with a true european solution. so we need to launch a reflection process in order to build common ground. that is why i will be setting up a high-level group to look at the right architecture to ensure that financial markets are suited to the realities of the single market and that supervisors can work together to meet the challenge of cross-border banks. i am proud to announce to you today that jacques de larosière, former managing director of the imf, governor of the banque de france and president of the ebrd, has accepted my invitation to chair this group, which will be independent and will consist of high-level experts in the subject matter. i believe their ideas could feed into a general reflection process, hopefully with some solutions for the long term. the current crisis has shown that we need comprehensive rethinking of our regulatory and supervision rules for financial markets which include hedge funds and private equity, as highlighted by parliament. so we will come back to these questions. i only hope that member states will show all of them the same level of willingness as parliament and the commission. let me recap. in the short term we need to ensure that rescue operations and other public intervention take place in a coordinated and consistent european framework. the speedy application of state aid rules by the commission injects confidence between member states, and we will hence come very rapidly with guidance. we will come next week with proposals on deposit guarantee schemes and on accounting rules. for the medium term, there are three measures to highlight: last week's proposal on capital requirements, our forthcoming proposal on rating agencies and a review of our 2004 recommendation on executive pay. and, in the longer term, the high-level group that i have announced should lay the groundwork for building consensus on cross-border supervision. all these measures, together with member states acting in a coordinated and consistent manner, will show a european union addressing the real problems. the effect on confidence will be all the stronger if the institutions can show a resolution and a determination to act quickly. as far as the commission is concerned, i would like to inform you that i have decided to set up, within the college, a permanent steering group on the financial crisis, composed of commissioners almunia, mccreevy and kroes, which i will chair myself. i want to keep open lines with parliament on these matters. i know that parliament has already signalled its openness to fast-tracking proposals, and i hope that we can work together on this very important and sensitive issue, because financial stability is a public good. we have a duty to show our common determination to face this very difficult and urgent situation. in all this, the international dimension is critical, as was just now emphasized by the president of the council. we need to come up with solutions in europe, but we also need to work with international financial institutions. i particularly welcome president sarkozy's proposal for an international conference. it is the right way forward. the more that public authorities can act in tune, the more effective our action will be, and the less the chance that action will undermine fair competition and the acquis of european integration. the focus is on the financial crisis, and rightly so. but it would be a mistake to see european grinding to a halt as a result. there are two other areas where we must make decisive progress this autumn. there are in fact many other points but, because of time, i will just concentrate on two issues very briefly: the climate-change and energy package, and the lisbon treaty. first the climate-change and energy package. those who think that this is not the policy for an economic downturn are making a mistake. the package is central to europe's future prosperity. without it there will be higher costs later, we will be more vulnerable to energy shortages, and we will lose the chance of exploiting some big new markets. of course industries are worried that change will bring extra costs. this is completely understandable. but i am also convinced that we can find ways to reassure industries that they will not be put at a competitive disadvantage. i will be urging the european council to press on and to keep up with the timetable being followed by parliament and being so effectively maintained by the french presidency. i welcome the remarks just made by the president-in-office of the council. yesterday parliament took an important procedural step forward. of course we are only at the beginning here of the interinstitutional negotiations. the commission is ready to engage constructively in order to reach an agreement with the widest possible support both in the council and in parliament's plenary. finally, the lisbon treaty. now is not the time to prejudge the precise way forward. but it is a time to remember that the last few weeks and months have shown again how europe needs the lisbon treaty. honestly, can we, in the future, deal with crises like the one we have witnessed between russia and georgia with the president of the council changing every six months? it is obvious that we need more stability. it is obvious that we need more coherence. it is obvious that we need more efficiency in the decision-making process of europe. we need a more effective europe, a more democratic europe, a europe with a clear voice on the international stage. that is why i think we should keep our commitment to the lisbon treaty ratification. these are not ordinary times. these are unprecedented times, which require all of us - commission, council and parliament - to rise to the occasion. together we must call and work for a european response to the financial crisis. we owe it to our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis facing our economies is a matter of great concern. it is a concern for our economy, it is a concern for our jobs, but it is a concern above all for the millions of people who, after working hard and saving, after securing a pension and a small inheritance for their children, learn that the fruit of their efforts has suddenly melted or vanished. the black monday experienced this week by all the world's stock exchanges once again provides further proof that markets can lose all connection with reality and that the financial system has become difficult to control. there are many causes of this crisis. the european commission is right to stress that the us authorities bear a large share of the responsibility. we must hold them to account. you are right about the commission. but europe must also act to confront this crisis and learn from it. in this difficult period, the first reaction of the member states is to take care of themselves. however, our top priority as european leaders must be to join forces to prevent the financial crisis from having too great an impact on the real economy. we must at all costs avoid that the crisis affects the financing of business, and in particular of small and mediumsized enterprises, too severely and for too long. mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, i am afraid that small and mediumsized enterprises will disappear with this crisis and that nobody will care. we need a support plan for small and mediumsized enterprises. we must ensure that our citizens maintain their confidence in the banking system and do not succumb to this wind of panic, which would only accelerate a downward spiral. i therefore call on the member states to act in a coordinated and determined manner to prevent the crisis from affecting pensions, employment and growth in europe. like the presidency of the council, which we commend for its determined action, our group believes that a unilateral approach is not conceivable in a world crisis. it is clear that financial market supervision is not working. that is why a european control system must be set up. once again, europe must set an example for the world. the current lack of oversight is a very serious problem and the failure of credit rating agencies to act in the public interest and to publish the true level of solvency of the major players in the global financial markets can no longer be tolerated. and i would add that in this period of uncertainty and precariousness for millions of our fellow citizens, my group considers it absolutely unacceptable that leaders who have led their establishment to bankruptcy should not suffer the consequences. we must also make people take responsibility. i would simply like to repeat what our minister said: it is time for action. and we need concerted action, we need courage and solidarity at 27 to restore confidence in our economy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council will also deal with the treaty of lisbon and i would like to call on all the member states which have not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible so that each country can express a definitive opinion on the matter. i know there are people in this room who don't see the point, but that's not my opinion. we understand the situation in ireland and we understand that the irish government needs time to provide answers after the vote, which we respect, of its citizens. but while the european union is prepared to show patience and understanding, the status quo is not sustainable in the medium and long term. i therefore call on the european council to show the political will necessary to ensure that, after an examination of the situation in october, a road map such as you have proposed, accompanied by a precise timetable, is adopted in december. i also call on the european council to take responsibility for its decisions: either the treaty of lisbon can and will eventually apply to all, or the treaty of nice applies and applies to all the institutions. the european parliament will have fewer seats and powers than under lisbon, but the european commission will also have fewer commissioners than member states. the treaty of nice applies. this is also the reality. every political decision comes at a price and if europe wants to be credible, it must take responsibility for its political choices, whether on the financial crisis or on its institutions. and i would add, mr president, that on the climate/energy package that we have on the table at this difficult time, we must proceed cautiously, keeping to the broad lines, not scaring the companies, so that these investments continue to take place. for those who disagree with me, i'll simply tell you: i've dealt with a very serious crisis called the mad cow. and for a year and a half, we had uncertainty and we have to reassure, we have to accept and we have to follow for the environment, for our planet, the system, but we also have to accept what is happening at the financial level. if we need another year, we'll need another year to get where we need to get to save our planet and provide a future for our children and our grandchildren.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, for several weeks now we have been witnessing, against the backdrop of billions of euros and dollars being thrown at you, a global rampage and unsustainable waste. but they are the product of a system in which european leaders have for years advocated wage moderation and the rationing of social spending and allowed inequalities to explode. today, the same people are stealing from the banks before bailing them out and then selling them to private investors, while at the same time announcing a long period of recession and sacrifices for the people. many people who watch these events in amazement cannot help but see in them a real lesson, not about excesses, mr watson, but about the very essence of capitalism in all its injustice and brutality, whatever the phenomenal transformations it has undergone in recent decades. i believe that the european leaders will have to answer to our fellow citizens. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments. but today i want to limit myself to three immediate and simple proposals to deal with the most urgent of problems while paving the way for a real change in political orientation. firstly, i think that we should not be cheap when we want to reassure the small and medium-sized savers who are legitimately worried about their modest fortune. the announcement made on this subject is, i think, belated, timid and inaccurate. the european council as a whole should solemnly guarantee an absolute guarantee of deposits throughout the union on 15 october. secondly, a basic sense of ethics as well as a simple concern for efficiency should prevent the sorcerer's apprentices from benefiting today or tomorrow from the public interventions called the deconfiture that their irrational exuberance has caused. this is why each state should, in any case, be able to compensate for the aid given to a financial institution in difficulty by a lasting nationalisation of its sound assets with a view to working towards the creation of a public financial centre devoted entirely, in the future, to the financing of socially useful investments, especially those rich in jobs. thirdly, in general terms, the real economy must be helped by a new and ambitious credit policy. this concerns both the eib and the ecb. firstly, the eib should be given the mandate and the means to carry out this task of guaranteeing small and mediumsized enterprises access to all the credit they need to develop their production, provided they create real jobs with a fair wage and respect the rights of their employees. in this respect, the decision to give €30 billion over three years to help smes is interesting, but i think it is too little and the timeframe is too long. in france alone, smes need 60 billion a year, and the union has 27 countries. in addition, they require oxygen immediately, in many cases. later may be too late. as for the ecb, is it not time, if ever, to ask it to adapt its mission to the vital needs of the economy and our societies by channelling money not to the financial markets but to the real economy? it has an instrument for this purpose, which it is not understood why it dogmatically forbids itself to use. this instrument is selective credit, on the one hand very expensive if it is intended for financial operations, on the other hand very accessible when it promotes employment, training and all useful investments. i am aware that some of these proposals are not very orthodox. what's the big deal? rather than an orthodox policy in a failed union, i prefer a reactive and creative policy in the service of the renewal of europe and a decent life for europeans.
president of the council. - madam president, mr president of the european commission, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great success in the past few years. i will be brief, simply to say, after listening to you, that the first lesson i have learned from this first part of the french presidency is that no crisis cancels out the others. the financial crisis does not erase the external crisis, with russia and georgia and in other parts of the world, a financial and external crisis does not erase food crises and ecological crises. all these challenges must be met, even if we have to make the necessary adjustments to maintain our remaining priorities. these priorities are of three orders. the first, as you have stressed in your speeches, is the return of confidence - the president of the commission said so - so that there is both a greater sense of security on the part of our citizens in relation to europe and to avoid the gap between the european union - the idea we all have of europe - and our citizens. the second priority is to adapt our institutional system so that we have more europe, a better organised europe, a europe that is better able to decide and to decide quickly, because we know that each of these challenges cannot be met individually and at national level. thirdly, we must move towards a development model which is more sustainable, more long-term oriented and fairly resource-managed, while taking into account the very sharp economic slowdown which we all know we are going to face. i fully agree with what the president of the european commission said. we have to be fair, we have to make up for a backlog, revise some dogmas. i think the president of the commission has understood this and the proposals he is making are in the right direction. we must move very clearly towards greater integration and greater financial supervision at european level. i will not go back to the various measures that have been listed, but it is obviously up to the council and the member states to also take their responsibilities and this house to take its responsibilities in relation to the proposals that are on the table and that are necessary on standards, on credit rating agencies, on the ratios of equity to the loans that can be committed, on the remuneration of managers and other banking actors, because there are also the remuneration of traders that is not talked about much but which also seems to me to be an important problem. in this respect, i think that the establishment of the high level group is a very good initiative and i would simply like, on behalf of the presidency, to see that it is as diverse and as broadly-based as possible, while remaining efficient. as the president of the commission has said, what is today a liquidity crisis must not turn into a credibility crisis tomorrow. president daul has perfectly underlined what the adjustments to our remaining objectives, particularly with regard to the energy/climate package, should be. it is also very important, as he stressed, that we have a dimension of support for small and mediumsized enterprises, that there are really strong actions by the european investment bank. in this respect, the financing package that has been agreed is important and must be implemented very quickly in terms of support for small and mediumsized enterprises. i agree with what martin schulz said. we need a lot more coordination. there has to be a plan of action. there must also be an action plan to support the activity. that is what mr schulz said and i am very grateful. he knows we'll support him in that. since he also has good contacts with mr steinbruck, i think he will also be able to convince him. i agree with mr watson that what we need is not more regulation but better regulation. that's what's important. we are not dogmatic about regulation either. it is clear, as many of you have indicated, that to regain trust we need to have regulations in the areas mentioned, regulations that are more appropriate, more responsive. here again, it is up to the member states to assume their responsibilities in this respect. finally, as mr wurtz has pointed out, we must indeed ensure that the european investment bank plays an active role in the present context. the european council will also decide on these aspects and we must take the necessary steps to ensure that we have an institutional framework which is adapted to financial groups, financial actors who are increasingly cross-border. this is the real gap we have to face in this crisis: we really have an organisation which remains entirely national while the issues are trans-european and we must find together the measures which will make it possible to change the mode of regulation rather than over-regulate and we must ensure that europe, in a united way, makes its voice heard at the next international meetings so that, unlike in the past, it is not the rules of others and the mess of others that are imposed on it and we bear the consequences, but that we can move towards a more stable international order and in line with the challenges we have to face on the planet.
president of the commission. - madam president, i would just like to emphasize two or three points which i think are important at this stage of the debate. i have found that there is still a general consensus on the broad lines to be followed. we must understand that we are in a very exceptional situation and that we have a national framework for a transnational crisis. the truth is that the supervisory authorities are national authorities. the commission and the european central bank have no powers of financial supervision. we have done some work on the commission's competences, particularly in competition and state aid, and i can assure you that there is excellent cooperation between our departments and the governments who have been kind enough to contact us in good time. i can also tell you that cooperation with the central bank has been excellent and i am once again witness to the extraordinary effort that the french presidency has had to make in order to be able to achieve a european approach in this difficult context of fragmentation of supervisory systems, but still with a european dimension. i would also like to welcome, in this context, the decision taken today by the european central bank to lower interest rates, a decision which was coordinated with other central banks. as regards the points you have already made in your speeches, let me emphasize two points. the first, raised by president joseph daul, concerns the real economy and small and mediumsized enterprises. it is now certain, it is an accepted fact, that this crisis is already having an impact on the real economy and that we are going to have to face more difficult times. i believe that we must find targeted measures, in the framework of all the reforms that europe is implementing, to adapt to a much more difficult environment of competition and to find ways of helping small and mediumsized enterprises in a concrete way. this is why, in the context of these initiatives, the european investment bank has been encouraged to implement measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. this whole dimension, the real economy, must be monitored very closely over the coming months. another point, which was emphasized by mr schulz, concerns the problem of those outside europe, the problem of the most deprived. and now i think i should also draw your attention to an important problem. we are now talking about financial rescue, but we must not forget human rescue. this year, according to the world bank, there have been 75 million more people who suffer from hunger. and next year, we're looking at another 100 million. so while we acknowledge that we have more problems now in europe, we must not forget the problems in the developing countries. we must not forget the tragedy in africa. we must make an effort to respond positively to the recent request made by the secretary-general of the united nations and the president of the world bank in a letter to all heads of state and government, and i also believe the president of the european parliament, that the european institutions, that is to say the parliament and the council, approve the commission's initiative to set up an emergency plan to support agricultural production in developing countries. we must not forget, as minister jouyet has very well said, that all these crises are linked: the financial crisis, the global food crisis, the energy crisis, important aspects of the geopolitical crisis. and i would very much like to see europe in a constructive dynamic not only for us europeans, but also for the whole world. we can contribute to a new order in globalization, a globalization that we just want, not by shutting ourselves in, not by questioning the market economy, but by trying to apply principles and rules that are fairer in the market economy. because, as we have said, the current problem is also a problem of incompetence, not so much of the market - even if many market operators adopt unacceptable behaviour - but there is also a problem of competence in certain political or public authorities who have not found the answers in terms of regulation for a market situation. in conclusion, i can tell you that i see in the contacts we have with governments every day a recognition of the need for this european dimension. for example, as you probably know, until now, europe as such, even the eurozone as such, doesn't really exist in international financial bodies. it was only a few months ago, after many years of insistence, that the european commission won the right to have a seat, a presence at the financial stability forum. it is undeniable that, even with a stability and growth pact and a european central bank, the union's external representation in the international financial institutions has so far fallen far short of the actual importance of economic and monetary union and of the european union project. so even in the midst of crisis, i see opportunities. if we are wise enough to understand what we can and must do, i see an opportunity to develop our idea of a europe which serves our citizens.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to express my regret at the absence of the minister responsible for the ecofin council. it holds the presidency of the council and advocates strong european cooperation. i think he belonged with us today. mr president of the commission, i hear you and i will not plagiarize those who say 'words, words', but nevertheless, when have i seen you really mobilized on these issues since the beginning of the crisis? you have sometimes come here with proposals when you feel that there might be some annoyance in the member states, particularly among the larger ones - i am thinking of france and germany on the question of sovereign funds. so you came with a proposal drawn up in your own office, independently of the responsibility of the commissioner in charge, mr charlie mccreevy. but since then, i don't feel you're very motivated. and i would also like to ask you where you have hidden the commissioner responsible for the situation on the financial markets today. i wonder why he's not next to you. i am glad to see our friend joaquin almunia here with you, but i find it a little strange that the commissioner responsible is not here. as for the commissioner responsible, what did he do in july 2007, when all his services were mobilised, to inform us that the situation of european banks was going to be dramatic, that the consequences of this crisis for the european economy were going to be dramatic? your services were informed. it was time to come forward, mr president, with proposals that could reassure european savers about the deposit guarantee, about how we were going to handle these difficult situations. where was your commissioner at the time? you were pleased that the commission was - listen to me, mr president! - invited to sit on the financial stability forum. do you know that when this forum met last monday, your commissioner charlie mccreevy did not attend because he was in dublin? what did he say when his home country took the lead on the issue of deposit guarantees in the sector for which he is responsible in the commission? you say that there is resistance in the european council, but do you need to wait for the orders of the finance ministers to set up a deposit guarantee system or to see how accounting standards are applied at european level? mr president, it is your political responsibility today to show courage, leadership and initiative. i've never seen anything like it before.
madam president, with this financial crisis, the asylum/immigration pact is going to take a back seat. it might not be any worse. maybe that's the place he should have always held. indeed, one wonders what is new in this asylum/immigration pact compared to the policies that have been pursued for many years, both by the european union and in the member states. it's true, after all! what will this pact change for migrants who are subject to police violence, human trafficking, and absurd administrative procedures? is there a consecration of their human dignity, their rights? will the convention on the rights of migrant workers and their families be ratified? no, you can't! for the persecuted of poverty, war, climate perils, the denials of the right to asylum that has become increasingly restrictive, what will change? are we going to question the absurdity of the need to seek asylum in the first country of reception? will we abolish the expeditionary checks and the highly uncertain lists of so-called safe countries? and for irregular migrants, who work legally and who play a decisive role in our economic and social life, will we decide to legalize them? no, you can't! and for migrants, including minors, those who are imprisoned, deported, including to countries where they will be mistreated, where they have no family, whose language they do not share, will anything change? will we give up transit readmission agreements with countries that violate human rights? no, you can't! asylum and immigration policy is a complicated issue today, you know, all over the world. you cannot go to an international conference without being reminded of the massive violations of the rights of migrants caused by the european asylum and immigration policy. i think this has to change. we need a policy based on pragmatism and not on hypocrisy, which is the hallmark of this asylum/immigration pact in particular.
mr president, first a question to the council. what about the high-level conference on georgia proposed by the french presidency and how does the current eu presidency intend to defend the territorial integrity of one country, georgia, while another country recognises two separatist regions, abkhazia and south ossetia? but it is a pity that mr barroso is not here because he was not convincing in his speech, perhaps because he himself is not convinced by the proposals he has made to us. i think the financial and economic situation is much worse than he has described it. even today, i think those of you who follow the internet can see very well that the stock markets continue to collapse despite the interventions. so it's really, to me, the collapse of the current system, a completely outdated system, a system that has brought bankruptcy, that has brought the earth to be totally exploited and suffocated by greenhouse gas emissions, that has brought about underdevelopment in the south, and that has brought about underdevelopment in our cities. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. my first words will be to commend the pragmatic and effective action of the president-in-office of the european union, nicolas sarkozy, and the presidency of the council, on whose bench my friend minister jean-pierre jouyet is sitting, who is doing an excellent job. the european union was born out of the suffering of war. it seems doomed to progress in suffering and crisis. the crises (the caucasus with georgia, the financial crisis, the failure of the wto) show how much we need the renewed institutions offered by the lisbon treaty, in particular a stable presidency of the union. on the financial crisis, the ecb has just decided to lower its intervention rates, and i welcome that decision. it is finally coming out of its indifference and will have to learn from the failure of its monetary policy because nothing would be worse than raising rates again when economic growth returns. it is becoming urgent that, on the basis of article 105 (6) of the treaty establishing the european community, the commission should refer the matter to the council so that it can entrust the ecb with a mandate on policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions in order to consider the creation of a european banking regulator.
madam president, the fragility of demand for new vehicles is evidenced by a marked decline in european car markets. a major french manufacturer has just announced the cutting of 4,000 jobs, to which are added 2,000 jobs in europe. at the same time, a 37% rise in profits in the first half of the year still does not encourage the latter to postpone this intention to eliminate these jobs. under the pretext of rationalization, a logic of profitability is being pursued to the detriment of ambitious industrial policies and, above all, to the disregard of employees. i would like to speak for the employees who are being hit hard by these measures, who are victims of this situation, and urge this major manufacturer to review its strategy at the same time, reorientating its choices and safeguarding employment. in the context of the employment crisis, employment must remain the first priority. in this spirit, the proposal for a regulation on co2 emissions from new vehicles will have to be decided on in a balanced way between the various aspects: sustainable development and safeguarding jobs through innovative industrial policies at all levels, including social aspects.
madam president, i would like to return to the unorthodox statements made by mr barroso. it suggests that he would be prepared to forget the sacrosanct rules of competition, that he would be less concerned about state aid. if it were a question of saving a particular sector of european industry, if it were a question of allowing member states to invest in research or finally launching a large and ambitious european loan, i would welcome this conversion. but it is a matter of buying up toxic products held by financial actors on a large scale. the aim is to finally save the financial thugs who are exploiting the efforts of the market regulators. the commission should review its doctrine, and that is all the better. but in a good way. by being more flexible on the question of state aid in strategic sectors at risk in europe and by putting a little more effort into implementing measures concerning rating agencies, the fight against food price speculation and the regulation of hedge funds. we have been calling for this for years, because today the proof is in: the creed of free competition and the only free market is clearly leading us to a dead end.
madam president, commissioner, the current financial crisis shows that when the problem is global, global action is needed. and this is especially true in the field of agriculture or food. that is why we have created the world trade organisation, which we agree on, which is trying to have global rules. it turns out that this is not quite working out as we would like, because we have a problem which is this: we have to reconcile two things, the necessary free trade on which everyone agrees, but the equally necessary protections. and protecting national economies or national agriculture is not synonymous with protectionism. the way we have done this for the last 60 years, since gatt, is an unbalanced way of reducing customs duties with the aim of eliminating them. it is technically difficult to reduce customs duties. the proof of this is that there are a whole series of mathematical formulas for this purpose: the south korean formula, the european formula or, the most famous, the swiss formula. it doesn't really work, because a product is not unitary. it is made up of many elements with very different rules of origin, and technically reducing customs duties is not as simple as one might think. we are therefore in a technical impasse and are trying politically, through negotiations, to break out of this impasse. but it so happens that scientists have invented a new customs technology: the technology of customs duties deductible by the exporter on the economy of the importing state. in practice, this deductible customs duty is converted into a customs credit equal to the amount of customs duty which the exporter has borne in the importing country. this customs credit has three characteristics: it is refundable, negotiable and extendable. it is refundable: when the exporter buys from the importer, he can deduct the customs duty he has paid. it is negotiable, because if the exporting company which has borne a certain amount of customs duties has nothing to buy from the importer, it trades its customs credit on the stock exchange or in a bank. and it is extendable: if we want to help developing countries, the importer can offer a customs credit amounting to more than the amount of customs duties. well, with this technique, you create a currency for international trade whose monetary mass is equal to the amount of existing customs duties. for example, the european union would offer 13 billion euros in international currency in the commercial field.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2001 the developing countries have been negotiating in the wto a cycle that has been advertised as the development cycle. today, faced with a brutal and devastating food crisis, alerting the world to the urgency of finding a comprehensive and balanced long-term solution, these countries are waiting for us to give them clear answers to guarantee their food security. i would like to reiterate that if the cycle is to remain one of market access at any cost, we will not achieve our objective. we also know that the longer the development agreement is delayed, the further the prospect of achieving the millennium development goals will be, and unfortunately we are already far behind. in view of this crisis situation, we call for a political solution to the special safeguard mechanism to be found as soon as possible, in order to produce an effective tool for protecting small farmers in poor countries. this is a necessary step before we can continue negotiations on the other aspects, and i hope that the recent resumption of discussions on agriculture and nama will allow progress in this direction. i would like to end by referring to the amendments tabled to the text of the joint resolution. the pse group will of course call for a vote in favour of amendment no 2, which is absolutely essential to finally increase parliament's rights in international trade. we will also support the amendments tabled by the green group, but we cannot accept the one tabled by the epp, because we do not think it appropriate, in this resolution on multilateral negotiations, to call for the conclusion of new regional bilateral agreements, which we know are most often negotiated at the expense of the weakest.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake in these wto negotiations? i do not believe that this is the fate, however noble these personalities, of mr mandelson or baroness ashton. i am not even sure that the main issue is the question of industrial tariffs, agricultural tariffs, market access. of course, we all want the agreement to be good, to be balanced for europe, but i think there are two main issues. the first is the preservation of a multilateral framework for trade. and we see how the absence of such a framework in another area of globalisation, that of financial markets, is costly in terms of risks for the economy, for the people and for our societies. and that is what is at stake, because if these six years of negotiations fail, we know that bilateral agreements will gradually replace the wto. it's an imperfect setting. we want to reform the wto - we say in our draft resolution - we want to add a better consideration of other dimensions that are related to trade, including environmental dimensions, to deal with impacts on climate change, and social standards. this is absolutely fundamental. however, it is not by dissolving the multilateral framework, but by strengthening it, that we will succeed in better organising this aspect of globalisation. the second issue - which i will not elaborate on because my colleague kader arif has already done so - is the cycle of rebalancing the rules that were set at the time of the uruguay round, at the creation of the wto, to take better account of the differences in levels of development, the situation of the least developed countries, the situation of developing countries. you also mentioned this, commissioner, when you asked for an initiative of the type of 'everything but arms', with a safeguard clause for sensitive products, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is fair trade, it is fair trade, so that, precisely, it is not just the law of the jungle. i believe that these are the two main issues on which the european negotiators must concentrate. it is normal that they should have their eyes fixed on the other indicators, those of agriculture and services, but without calling into question the right of developing countries to regulate public services, those of industrial tariffs, but without doing anything to the detriment of the success of an agreement on this development cycle.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent energy debates in our institution show that energy is a precious commodity, a vital need. but what about water? it is a more valuable possession. we are aware of the scarcity of water in developing countries. but what about europe? water is also a fundamental asset for europe. let's stop the waste, let's preserve this resource. the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow is a comprehensive report dealing with technical aspects, such as leaks in distribution networks, and political and societal aspects, such as the use and awareness of the good use of water. the responsibility for water is both individual and collective. the report also addresses the issue of water scarcity and drought, both immediate and long-term problems in the context of climate change. i would like to stress that the exchange of good practice is a very important element, because while it is certain that european regions are affected to varying degrees by water scarcity or drought, the practical experience of all regions is essential to prevent or remedy these phenomena. i would even go further and say that lessons can be learned from both good and bad practices. i am also pleased that a link is made between water availability and water quality. our parliament attaches great importance to the issue of water quality, through texts such as environmental quality standards and the current debate on pesticides. the response to water scarcity is multifaceted: research and innovation must be encouraged, technical and agricultural uses must be improved, and individual behaviour must be changed. let us act and write down the english proverb that says "we do not know the value of water until the well is dry".
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i also want to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i think we can only repeat here that water has become a precious and scarce resource. the rapporteur tells us that 3.2 billion people on this planet could be faced with a water shortage problem. we also know that europe is not spared. so we must do everything we can to conserve this scarce resource. water is a common good for mankind and i regret that some of my amendments were not accepted by the committee on the environment. that is why i am addressing the commission directly. i hope that the cap reform will also include a review of certain farming methods, and i am thinking in particular of irrigation methods which are not suitable in certain areas of europe and which will have to be abandoned in order to stop the waste of water. i also regret that the amendment on the cooling of nuclear power stations has not been taken into account because in my country, france, at a certain time of the year, when the water level is very low in the rivers, nuclear power stations have to be shut down or cooled with a sprinkler. it's becoming ridiculous, and it's terribly dangerous for our fellow citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, many of us in this house have had the pleasure of hearing you announce a number of positive things which have never been mentioned before and which will no doubt be included in the commission's communication to parliament and the council, which we are looking forward to. your reply, however, gave me the impression that there was not a full awareness of the fact that events are accelerating at a rapid pace. first, the international panel on climate change has told us, with the authority of a scientific consensus now shared, that the arctic is facing greater dangers than we thought just four or five years ago. the inuit's living conditions are threatened, their biodiversity is in question. many species, including polar bears, are also threatened. second, it was also the year that, for the first time in several millennia, the waterway around the arctic was open in summer, from both the west and the east. this had never happened before! and there's the news, all new and recent, of oil spills, oil spills, oil spills in the arctic. thirdly, my colleague from the epp has just mentioned that a russian submarine has planted the russian flag on the north pole. what was that about? russia is asking for the extension of its maritime zone to its entire continental shelf. that's 38 percent of the entire surface of the arctic, and it's dramatic because it's the opening to militarization of the arctic. the only way, commissioner, to block this procedure, which is under way before the united nations special committee, is to open negotiations on an international protection treaty. that word was never uttered. the european union has, with greenland and denmark, a coastal state and two other states in the arctic territory. we have a very close association with iceland. the union has the competence - and i believe it is urgent - to ask for this, for reasons of safety, for reasons of navigation policy and climate protection, for reasons of preserving initiatives which could produce too many calories. we must now open negotiations on a treaty to protect the arctic, as there is one for the antarctic. i know that, especially since i was one of the godfathers of his negotiation. it is with this reminder that i suggest you make haste, we are in a hurry! this must be done before the russian application is considered by the un committee.
the agenda calls for the report by carlos carnero gonzález, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the inclusion in the rules of procedure of the european parliament of article 202a concerning the use by parliament of the symbols of the union (2007/2240 (reg)) (a6-0347/2008).
symbol is to feeling what allegory is to thought. this quote from the philosopher alain is, however, a clear demonstration of what these symbols mean for the european union today. listening to this beethoven symphony or celebrating europe together on 9 may is what we are doing from now on, today, to make europe exist. it is a concrete way of expressing the values underlying this union, the markers which are gradually being inscribed in the memory of 500 million europeans. with the insertion of this article in the european parliament's rules of procedure, the work of our colleague carlos carnero gonzález, whom i welcome, is delivering a political message from parliament to the citizens focused on these values, as evidenced by the opposition of the eurosceptics. no politics without symbolism! identifying europe with a hymn, a flag, a motto offers citizens living and working in europe an opportunity to recognise themselves as part of a single entity united in diversity. these symbols, displayed at all levels and in all institutional areas, will be a constant reminder of the values which are the basis of europe. i would like to stress today, however, that europe is going through a serious crisis of confidence and that, even beyond these symbolic representations, we still have to write and rebuild together a strong sense of belonging.
i'm the one who's got my rugby club flag in my house!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr peterle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the white paper entitled 'together for health: a strategic approach for the eu 2008-2013' (2008/2115 (ini)) (a6-0350/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, we have to discuss this white paper on health 2008-2013, and health is a fundamental right, of course, for all of us. we have a series of challenges to address: cancer, cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes and, most importantly, the aging population, and then the ongoing risks of pandemics. our fellow citizens expect a lot from us on these health issues. and when we talk about the added value of the european union, it is there, on these issues that affect them very closely, that they are waiting for us! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am glad that our colleague mr peterle has improved the content considerably. perhaps the repetition is indeed necessary because many times in this house we have spoken about these health issues and we all agree on health for all, high quality health, with an integrated approach. investing in prevention is important. we want to, but we do not, because we are constantly running into budgets that are too sparse, particularly in research. we still haven't realized that prevention would be much cheaper than repair. it is essential to take account of the ageing of the population, with its consequences for society - economic consequences, social consequences, health consequences. but we have to stop talking about it. we must act, because we absolutely need to meet this expectation of our fellow citizens. there are very clear messages that must be given about good behaviour: the need for physical activity, a balanced diet and, above all, responsibility. the responsibility of the member states of the european union, but also the responsibility of each european citizen.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work, which has led to the original text being revised. the commission's white paper is a first step towards setting clear and beneficial health objectives, but it is regrettable that it does not meet the challenges of quality and equal access to care. the report on the table today has not taken up the original proposals referring to self-medication, and that is a good thing. i think that to trivialize or even encourage self-medication is totally inadequate in relation to the health requirements we must have. "together for health" must not become "each for himself in the face of illness". the introduction of the concept of active patient is a worrying notion because, not being accompanied by a clear definition, it leaves the door open to different interpretations. encouraging patients to take care of themselves, encouraging population groups to develop an autonomous capacity for reaction are also proposals to be handled with great caution. we must remember that health is a special field, requiring a very high level of expertise and often touching on directly vital issues. the whole set of proposals encouraging self-medication, combined with the notion of individual responsibility, does not seem to me to respond to the health challenge we are facing and is far from the notions of solidarity. another point i would like to criticise is the facilitation of the mobility of health professionals. this encouragement can have very serious consequences for the territorial distribution of health personnel and exacerbate already highly precarious situations in some member states. rather than encouraging mobility of health professionals, it is better to increase the exchange of good health practices between all member states. in the same way, i understand that online health is encouraged. it is a positive and innovative initiative, but it is reserved for a minority of citizens. i support the amendments tabled by my colleagues on health at work. this is a crucial issue because occupational health problems are increasing all the time.
ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our president, mr pöttering, i am saddened to inform you that we have learned of the death of the former european commissioner, mr george thomson, who later became lord thomson of monifieth. he was, with lord soames, one of the first two british commissioners. george thomson, a former minister, died last week at the age of 87.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i assume, mr president, that you are referring to the various exhibits in the passageways and corridors. you know that the quaestors are responsible for this matter. we will of course pass on your comments.
mr president, i would like to speak again about the serenity and order of our proceedings. our session yesterday afternoon was marked by extremely moving testimony, but the slippages on the agenda have led to the moving of the speeches on such important subjects as the financial crisis for more than two hours, totally disrupting the order of the speakers. i don't think it's compatible with the proper functioning of this house.
i shall then refer the matter not to the quaestors but to the conference of group chairmen, since that is the body responsible for this matter.
i'm not announcing the final vote until we've solved this little problem. i need the clarification of the chairwoman of the committee responsible. the services say there is a problem with the introduction, since the first amendment 'deplores' while the second 'questions'. can you shed some light on that?
mr president, i think mrs kauppi is wrong because mr klinz's amendment no 4 is about the same paragraph as mrs kauppi's amendment no 2. the plenary has now voted on amendment no 2 by mrs kauppi, so by definition amendment no 4 is invalid.
i am reassured to see that the chairman of the committee responsible fully agrees with the analysis of the services of the sitting. so, mrs. kauppi, i'm sorry, but i can't comply with your request.
mrs van den burg, i think you have just read the wrong text, except i made a mistake.
to sum up the situation, our rapporteur is not proposing any amendment to the text, but simply that, after the votes, the services should rearrange the final text as he has just proposed it.
just a clarification, my dear astrid, speaking time is one minute, not two. this is undeclared, black-collar work, practically.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr seeber's report because of its merits. i thank those who made it possible to adopt the amendments i had proposed. i am concerned, however, about the pollution of soil and groundwater by the use of dangerous agricultural pollutants, as has been the case in french overseas countries, particularly in martinique and guadeloupe, with the long-lived molecule chlordecone. this pollutant, banned in europe for almost thirty years, was kept in use in french overseas until 1997. today, in addition to the risk of serious public health problems and the hindrance of economic development, this pollution will make it impossible to achieve the objectives set by the ecw, the european water framework directive of 23 october 2000, at least for martinique. will the european commission continue to accept that member states are in breach of its directives in such sensitive areas as the environment and health?
you have four seconds of credit for next time, astrid.
in writing. i voted for the decision proposing to approve a general framework setting out the main lines of the commission's communication on europe, entitled communicating on europe in partnership with a view to providing a framework for strengthening communication in all directions, as part of a wider package initiated by the white paper on a european communication policy which advocates a two-way communication characterised by the active participation of citizens, and plan d ( plan d as democracy, dialogue and debate . it must be acknowledged that this communication, launched by the commission following the failure of the draft constitutional treaty to encourage debate on the relationship between the union's democratic institutions and its citizens, does not appear to have achieved its objectives. the 3d plan is a failure: how can we have democracy without dialogue and dialogue without debate ? this amount of evidence adds little to the immense gap that has been created between citizens who no longer understand the meaning of european integration and institutions that have become too opaque and incomprehensible. we hope that this new attempt to reach an interinstitutional agreement will make progress.
in writing. the report by our colleague is a real improvement in the organisation and content of exchanges of information extracted from criminal records between member states. there is no doubt that individuals like fourniret, a despicable paedophile who was able to inflict violence in france and then in belgium because his criminal record had not been transferred from one country to another, could still exist. these monsters, murderers, thugs and thieves do not have to hide behind a lack of transparency in the various national databases to escape justice. for these compelling reasons, we are in favour of the creation of the european criminal record information system, since it will guarantee the fundamental freedoms of every individual. i am thinking in particular of the necessary protection of freedom of expression and the ideological penalisation of the crime of opinion whenever there is a question of deviating from the europeanist dogmas and the dictatorship of political correctness. the electronic interconnection of criminal records will also require taking necessary precautions, such as ensuring the integrity and authenticity of the information transmitted or its updating. we are now in the drafting phase of this mechanism, so let us remain alert and cautious.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my italian colleague pier antonio panzeri on stepping up the fight against undeclared work, drawn up on the basis of the european commission's communication and calling for a stronger fight against the parallel economy which harms the whole economy, leaves workers unprotected, harms consumers, reduces tax revenues by creating unfair competition between companies. it is important to distinguish between criminal or illegal activities and work that is legal but not reported to the public authorities; i.e. free from the various regulatory constraints; the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. of course we must increase the controls. but it is also necessary, and always necessary, to reduce the taxation of labour, while respecting national specificities, by improving the quality of public finances. the administrative complexities of tax and benefit systems, which can encourage, in particular, self-employed workers and small businesses, to resort to undeclared work, need to be reduced. it is urgent to consider the establishment of a european platform for cooperation between labour inspectorates and other competent bodies responsible for monitoring and combating fraud.
in writing. it is vital to combat undeclared work, especially when this cancer of the economy is growing, thus undermining growth and distorting competition in the internal market through social dumping. the first victims of this underground economy are the legal workers, the nationals of the states whose legitimate economic and social rights are threatened. we can welcome this report for what it denounces. unfortunately, these staunch europeanists are still using mass economic immigration as a social lever. immigration to help, they say, europe's failing economy and demography. this call for the replacement of illegal immigration for work by "legal" immigration is a baseless hypocrisy. it is also economic, social and societal nonsense. france and europe do not have to open more "legal immigration routes" even though they cannot stop illegal immigration. the return to growth and the reconquest of the internal market requires the return of citizens' confidence, a family and maternity policy, better training and guidance for young people and the unemployed and, finally, community preference and protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague gabriele zimmer on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including that of children, within the european union. a significant proportion of the union's population remains socially excluded, with 16% of the european population at risk of financial poverty, one in five living in unhealthy housing, 10% of europeans living in a household where no one is working, longterm unemployment at around 4% and the proportion of young people dropping out of school exceeding 15%. another aspect of social exclusion that is gaining in importance is the lack of access to information technology. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i welcome the commission's approach to active social inclusion, which must enable citizens to live in dignity and participate in society and the labour market. i support the call for member states to define a minimum income system for social inclusion and support to escape poverty and lead a life of dignity.
in writing. this report on poverty in europe is a stark statement of the failure of the policies pursued by the european union and a further illustration of the unrealism of this assembly. the number of people "at risk of poverty", as the report put it, is estimated at over 80 million. more than 100 million europeans are estimated to live in unsanitary housing. more than 30 million workers would receive extremely low wages, much more in reality since in france alone the working poor would be 7 million. i would like to dwell on this last situation. the rapporteur proposes minimum wages and sufficient income to avoid social exclusion. but what is the point of this in a europe which at the same time encourages the mass immigration of cheap labour? what good is that in a europe which allows social dumping between its member states, as the scandalous decisions of the court of justice in the viking and laval cases show? what good is that in a europe which is sacrificing its workers to global free trade? is it to supplement shamefully low wages and to allow them to continue with public money? once again, we see the limits of the system you have imposed on us for 50 years. it's time to change it!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished polish colleague and friend, mr zbigniew zaleski, to approve the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and ukraine concerning the maintenance of the commitments on trade in services contained in the partnership and cooperation agreement signed in luxembourg in 1994 with effect from 1 march 1998, which are now covered by the commitments entered into by ukraine in the context of its accession to the world trade organisation (wto), except in the field of international maritime transport, which remains subject to a bilateral agreement. i share the rapporteur's view that the services sector is essential for the economies of the eu and ukraine. i welcome all the efforts made by the european union to support ukraine at its level in its efforts to become a member of the world trade organisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished polish colleague and friend, mr zbigniew zaleski, to approve the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and ukraine concerning the maintenance of the commitments on trade in services contained in the partnership and cooperation agreement signed in luxembourg in 1994 with effect from 1 march 1998, which are now covered by the commitments entered into by ukraine in the context of its accession to the world trade organisation (wto), except in the field of international maritime transport, which remains subject to a bilateral agreement. i share the rapporteur's view that the services sector is essential for the economies of the eu and ukraine. i welcome all the efforts made by the european union to support ukraine at its level in its efforts to become a member of the world trade organisation.
in writing. i voted for the resolution proposed by the economic and monetary affairs committee on the reform of the international accounting standards board (iasb) in the debate following the oral question in the context of the consultation of the international accounting standards committee foundation (iascf). it should be recalled that, by using comitology, the european union is converting the international accounting standards developed by the iasb into our community law. despite this community adoption procedure, it is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the iasb and the establishment of a monitoring group is a good thing. this monitoring group should reflect the balance of the most important international monetary spaces, cultural diversity and the interests of developed and emerging economies and international institutions that are accountable to governments. this monitoring group should play an active role in promoting financial transparency, the development and efficient functioning of financial markets, the prevention of pro-cyclical behaviour, the safeguarding of financial stability and the prevention of systemic risks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 9 october 2008 tabled by six political groups, including the epp-de, on the situation in belarus following the parliamentary elections on 28 september 2008. the statements of president alexander lukashenko had given hope: he had publicly called for open and democratic elections on 10 july 2008, and repeated this call on television on 29 august 2008, promising that the elections would be more fair than they had ever been. it is unacceptable that the elections of 28 september 2008, despite some minor improvements, did not meet internationally recognised democratic standards as established by the osce election observation mission. the last dictator in europe, out of fear of democracy, missed an opportunity to join the procession of the great and magnificent historical developments that we have witnessed since the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the collapse of communism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague carlos carnero gonzales on the insertion in the rules of procedure of the european parliament of article 202a concerning the use by the parliament of the symbols of the union. the three symbols (the flag with 12 gold stars on a blue background, the anthem from the "ode to joy" of beethoven's ninth symphony and the motto "united in diversity") help to bring citizens and the european union together and to build a european identity that complements national identities. these symbols have been used for over thirty years by all the european institutions and were formally adopted by the european council in 1985. i welcome the choice of 9 may as europe day, which commemorates 9 may 1950, when the french foreign minister, robert schuman, in his speech at the quai d'orsay clock show, made public jean monnet's idea of unifying coal and steel production under a supranational high authority by pooling the resources needed for armaments. it was intended, at the time, to prevent a new war between france and germany and to anchor the latter in the western camp at the beginning of the cold war.
in writing. this report on the use of european union symbols by this parliament is not a report, it is an act of 'constitutional faith', the expression of an almost religious creed! the symbols of the european union - flag, anthem, currency - have ceased to exist legally as such since two european peoples overwhelmingly rejected the european constitution in 2005. they are not in the lisbon treaty, which is also dead since the irish people voted. there is no european superstate! the use of these symbols to make it happen might seem ridiculous if it did not reflect your deep contempt for democratic expression and your desire to impose the supranational eurocratic state at any cost.
in writing. europe wants to be a state. it wants its own anthem, its own flag, its own day, its own coin and its own motto. we do not want this super-state, we do not want this imposed federalism. in 2005, the french and dutch people rejected by referendum the draft european constitution incorporating these symbols. in june 2008, it was the irish who, by rejecting the lisbon treaty, again refused the symbols of this superstate. it is a scandal to want to introduce them back by stealth through amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the people of europe have a say in this. they must be respected. they too have a duty of memory. as our societies and economies become more global, let us remember, more than ever, who we are, where we come from, and what our values and identities are. europe will not be built by practicing the negation of the history of its peoples and nations and against national realities.
in writing. one of the few differences between the european constitution and the treaty of lisbon signed by the 27 heads of state and government was precisely the fact that the union's symbols - flag, anthem, currency, europe day - were unanimously rejected on 13 december 2007. the aim was to save face and not to give the impression to the citizens of the member states that the structures of a federal state were being set up. by intending to reintroduce these symbols, the european parliament is once again breaking the law and deliberately violating the european treaties. it is true that the european institutions are not yet at their trial. the scandalous way in which they want to get ireland to vote again by referendum is a caricature of their conception of democracy. everything that stands in the way of european integration must be eliminated by all means, including legal ones. how can we trust a europe which tramples on the principles it is supposed to defend and gives the image of the former soviet union where freedom of opinion and expression was enshrined in the constitution but never applied? my dear colleagues, democracy is not shared, nor is totalitarianism. we have an illustration of this today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent own-initiative report by my austrian colleague richard seeber in response to the european commission's communication on tackling water scarcity and drought in the european union. i share the regret that the european commission's approach lacks a genuine international dimension and i support the rapporteur's proposals that the specific nature of the issue of water scarcity and drought calls for coordinated action at the level of the union and the member states as well as at the level of regional and local governments. at least 11% of the european population and 17% of the eu territory have experienced a water scarcity problem. recent developments show that water is expected to become significantly scarcer in europe. it is urgent that the european union develops a water policy that will give european citizens, businesses, public bodies, in our relations with animals and plants, etc., the assurance that we will have enough water in the right quantity and quality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent own-initiative report by my austrian colleague richard seeber in response to the european commission's communication on tackling water scarcity and drought in the european union. i share the regret that the european commission's approach lacks a genuine international dimension and i support the rapporteur's proposals that the specific nature of the issue of water scarcity and drought calls for coordinated action at the level of the union and the member states as well as at the level of regional and local governments. at least 11% of the european population and 17% of the eu territory have experienced a water scarcity problem. recent developments show that water is expected to become significantly scarcer in europe. it is urgent that the european union develops a water policy that will give european citizens, businesses, public bodies, in our relations with animals and plants, etc., the assurance that we will have enough water in the right quantity and quality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my spanish colleague alejandro cercas (pse, es) on the application of social legislation relating to road transport and i agree to deplore the fact that there are still major differences in the application and enforcement of regulation (eec) no 3820/85 on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport. member states should be called upon to redouble their efforts to ensure the effective and harmonised implementation of social rules and to transpose directive 2002/15/ec on the employment of persons performing mobile road transport activities in order to ensure the road safety of citizens and the health and safety of drivers and to establish an unequivocal framework of fair competition. the european commission must be extremely firm in its response to member states' breaches of community legislation on the social aspects of road transport and must take enforcement measures in the event of non-compliance with the provisions, while taking preventive action, if necessary by judicial means, to ensure strict compliance with community legislation. this is essential if we are to have fair and unbiased competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my spanish colleague alejandro cercas (pse, es) on the application of social legislation relating to road transport and i agree to deplore the fact that there are still major differences in the application and enforcement of regulation (eec) no 3820/85 on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport. member states should be called upon to redouble their efforts to ensure the effective and harmonised implementation of social rules and to transpose directive 2002/15/ec on the employment of persons performing mobile road transport activities in order to ensure the road safety of citizens and the health and safety of drivers and to establish an unequivocal framework of fair competition. the european commission must be extremely firm in its response to member states' breaches of community legislation on the social aspects of road transport and must take enforcement measures in the event of non-compliance with the provisions, while taking preventive action, if necessary by judicial means, to ensure strict compliance with community legislation. this is essential if we are to have fair and unbiased competition.
in writing. this parliament believes in the inherent beneficence of financial markets, their capacity for resilience and self-regulation, provided that there is a minimum of uniform rules at european and perhaps global level. but the current crisis proves just the opposite. it is financial disintermediation, the global european integration of the financial sector, the free movement of capital, the financialization of the global economy, the mad game of the market which creates ever more complex products, ever more disconnected from real economic activity, that have led us to the abyss. it is the nation that is protective and it is the decisions of the states that matter in the present context. the system of so-called free international competition has reached its limits and must be changed. first of all, the european union itself, whose policies and ideological orientations are partly responsible for the situation. it is now proving to be totally useless, since it is the states that act and react. it will prove its ability to cause harm tomorrow, since it reserves the right to sanction national safeguard measures in the name of competition. yes, it's time to put an end to this europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my dutch colleagues ieke van den burg and daniel daianu from romania, which contains recommendations to the commission on the follow-up to the future structure of financial supervision. i support the formal request to the commission to make legislative proposals to improve the regulatory framework for financial services in europe not only because of the financial crisis but because we cannot build a european internal market without a european regulatory policy. i regret that the report does not ask the commission to initiate the procedure provided for in article 105 (6) of the treaty establishing the european community for suggesting to the council that the european central bank be given a mandate on the prudential policies of credit institutions. i am very much in favour of regulations which will strengthen and clarify the status and responsibilities of the level 3 lamfalussy committees (cesr for securities, ceiops for insurance and pensions and cebs for banks), by giving them a legal status appropriate to their functions.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was suspended at 12.05 p.m.)
mr president, for several weeks now the world has been going through a serious financial crisis. it has often been explained as having its origins in the vagaries of unfettered capitalism, the pursuit of profit without any basis in reality and the lack of regulation of our financial system. and of course, the analysis is correct! but less attention has been paid to the whirlwind into which our currency would have been plunged had it not been for the economic and monetary policy of the european union. the euro has proved to be much more resilient than the mark, the franc or the lire. it is also clear that the decisions taken eight days ago by the eurogroup, on the initiative of the president-in-office of the council of the european union, have had an immediate effect on the financial markets. of course, measures will have to be taken to prevent a future financial crisis. but if they are to be effective, they must be taken at european level. this crisis shows us that the european union is strong when it speaks with one voice. it shows us, if need be, that the institutional improvements provided for by the lisbon treaty are more necessary than ever. so what we need is more and better europe.
mr president, i wanted to respond to the comments made by mr corbett and others about our return to strasbourg and the cost of doing so. it is true that europe is not just a matter of reason. even though it tries to be rational, it also works from symbols. it is not a unitary state and we do not operate with a single capital within which all our institutions are located. some of them are here in strasbourg, the central bank is in frankfurt, i believe the medicines agency is in britain. all of this comes at a cost. but we also know the cost of the absence of europe, and we have paid a lot for it in our history. so, two hundred million euros - if it is one of the elements that allows institutions to function well and, for example, europe to better understand the dysfunctions of financial markets and, perhaps, tomorrow, to save rescue plans for financial institutions of more than one trillion euros - i believe that this is a price worth paying for a well-functioning democracy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the presidency of the council will join us, it is now more than six years since the adoption of the directive on temporary agency work was postponed, not because parliament, which took a decision on the commission proposal as soon as it was before it in 2002, was concerned, but precisely because of the blockage of certain member states in the council. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. temporary agency work accounts for more than three million employees in the union. they are employed by some 20 000 companies, representing a turnover of 75 billion euros. this is obviously a sector which is very sensitive to changes in growth and temporary workers are now the first to be affected by the economic downturn and the rise in unemployment, but like other forms of precarious and atypical work, it has been increasing structurally in recent years and this development is estimated at almost 60% over the past five years. this trend is continuing particularly strongly in the new member states. temporary work affects a very large number of sectors, which vary from one member state to another: industry in some countries, services in others, construction, agriculture, transport in others. the proportion also varies greatly from one country to another. it can be as high as 5% of all workers in countries such as the united kingdom. the duration of the missions also varies. in some countries it is short, such as missions of about ten days in france, less than a week in spain, or about 20 days in finland. but in other countries, such as ireland, belgium and the netherlands, it can be several months, or even a year or more in austria. we know that temporary workers are more exposed to physical risks, to the intensity of work, to accidents at work. their training is often less important. the stress of precarious employment is also very much present. however, the legislation and the types of legal framework governing their situation vary widely in the member states. so that temporary workers are, for example, only really protected by equal treatment, especially in terms of pay, in ten of the twenty-seven countries of the european union. their access to training, social protection, maternity leave - all these subjects are variable and are not guaranteed in the same way in all the member states. this is why the european commission, at the request of the social partners and with the support of the european parliament, has wanted legislation to ensure equal treatment. after a first draft was presented to us, the european parliament, in november 2002, on the basis of the report by my colleague, ieke van den burg, who is still present in this house and whom i would like to congratulate, strengthened this draft legislation by allowing, in particular, equal treatment to be ensured from the first day, particularly in terms of pay. when adopting its common position last june, the council finally agreed with the european parliament's position. it considered that equal treatment from day one should be the general rule and that any derogation from this principle should be agreed by the social partners through collective bargaining or agreements with the social partners at national level. the european parliament's amendments concerning the definition of the essential conditions of work and employment, including the inclusion of remuneration in article 3, were also adopted in the common position. finally, the council's common position retained the amendments relating to access to employment, collective facilities, vocational training and the right to representation for temporary workers under the same conditions as for permanent workers in the user undertaking. a debate was held in the committee on employment and social affairs on parliament's initial proposal to amend the commission's proposal to add elements on health, safety and hygiene at work, which were not accepted by the council. but these guarantees exist under another directive, the council directive of 25 june 1991, which complements the measures to promote the improvement of safety and health at work of workers in fixed-term or temporary employment relationships. as you know, ladies and gentlemen - i shall conclude this first speech on this point - the european trade union confederation, on the one hand, and the trade organizations representing temporary agency workers, on the other, want us to adopt this legislation. adopting this legislation today means ensuring that the european parliament's positions at first reading now become law, that this protective framework for temporary workers can be transposed within the next three years and that the pandora's box of uncertain negotiation within the council is not reopened. that is why the committee on employment and social affairs decided on 7 october to recommend adoption of the common position without amendments in order to protect this sector of work, which is the most precarious in europe.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, first of all, we have here the conclusion of extremely constructive work between the european institutions on the one hand, the member states but also between the political groups and the social partners. the text we have reached is based on consensus with the social partners. this proposal for a directive now defines a general framework for temporary workers in the 27 member states and is an extremely important step forward, based on the principle of non-discrimination between permanent and temporary workers. we have put in it a desire for transparency - transparency on the conditions of workers - but also a desire for trust between workers and employers. the security of workers and the flexibility that companies need are extremely important, which is why today the european people's party, which has relied on these principles of equal treatment, access to vocational training and the arrangements for representing temporary workers under collective agreements, has also wanted to advance this work in consensus. europe today protects these workers. this framework directive for the protection of temporary agency workers sets out new working conditions. we are convinced that we will move forward together on the social europe. that is why we will of course vote for this directive without any amendments as proposed today.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank my colleagues for their speeches and the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators, all those who have taken part in this debate, for their support for your rapporteur and, in so doing, for the completion of this procedure. it is true that the report was reduced to a statement of reasons and a single request: "let us approve!" the next adoption of this directive, i hope in two days' time, is a victory for the european parliament and a victory for the social partners. and i would like to take this opportunity to reply to my colleagues in the gue who tabled some amendments, the value of which i can understand in substance, but i would nevertheless like to stress the fact that the european trade union confederation again addressed the chairman of the political groups a few days ago to say that the adoption of this directive, without amendment, would be a strong signal that social progress at european union level is necessary and possible and that social europe is still alive. as the temporary work sector, like other types of atypical employment contracts, developed, a legal framework was needed. and that's the decision we make. europe is a space of law. it must be so in the area of civil rights, it must be so in economic and social matters. we have affirmed, through other directives, the protections and rights enjoyed by all workers. as the number of temporary workers increases, we must ensure that they enjoy the same rights and that the use of temporary work is not used in an abusive way to circumvent the rights of the workers concerned or of other workers who would then be subject to a kind of pressure and social dumping. we also want to show, by adopting this directive, that social europe can move forward, that it can have a concrete content, contrary to what has sometimes been heard in the commission - not from commissioner vladimir špidla, but from other members of the college. in social matters too, we can legislate, we can collegiate, and show the members of the council who have blocked the adoption of this legislation for too long, as well as other legislation, that they should not be frightened by the advances of social europe and that showing that europe is defending citizens and workers may also help to reconcile citizens with the institutions of the union and respond to the anxieties and concerns that have been expressed in ireland, the netherlands and my country, france. more progress on the social directive, i believe, will also contribute to more progress on political europe and to citizens' support for the progress of political europe.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we are debating two joint issues today: the eu-australia agreement on the transfer of passenger data - pnr - and the establishment of a european pnr. the agreement with australia seems to us to be much more acceptable than other agreements with other third countries. it is therefore particularly positive that data are made anonymous and that the transfer and subsequent use of data is limited. we are also particularly pleased that the australian authorities have confirmed the unnecessary collection of sensitive data such as food preferences. however, we remain concerned because the purpose for which the data can be used is poorly defined. the data retention period and the number of data required also appear to us to be excessive. finally, i think it is essential to define more clearly the data protection which will benefit european citizens. we also call on the council and the member states to strengthen democratic control by involving the european parliament before the agreements are finalised. the issues raised by the agreement with australia reflect the problems of setting up a european pnr. we cannot simply respond to requests from third countries. the european union must lead by example in safeguarding its tradition of privacy protection. we refuse to simply copy the pnr agreement with the united states at the level of the union. there is a need for an open debate on whether the use of pnr data is actually useful and, if so, under what conditions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are debating this evening the erasmus mundus programme 2009-2013, on which we have finally reached agreement with the council. the programme will therefore be able to enter into force in january 2009 and will thus benefit students from the beginning of the academic year in september. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their opinions in the committees on employment, women, budget, development and foreign affairs, and also my colleagues on the committee on culture and education. i want to thank the european commission, of course. i would also like to thank the president of the erasmus mundus association and the executive agencies who have been able to provide us with their expertise and, above all, their experience. five years after the adoption of erasmus mundus, almost to the day, i am pleased to present this second generation programme, which continues to promote excellence in european higher education by enabling the most talented students from third countries and europe to follow high-level joint programmes at at least three universities and benefit from a high-quality welcome and substantial scholarships. the results of the previous programme speak for themselves: between 2004 and 2008, 103 master's degrees were selected and awarded, more than 6 000 students received an erasmus mundus grant, more than 1 000 teachers from third countries visited our european universities, and more than 400 higher education institutions from europe and third countries were involved. this new programme comprises three actions. the first opens up the programme to doctoral students and will allow european students to also receive grants, albeit at a lower level. the second concerns exclusively partnerships with higher education institutions in third countries, and the third is devoted to the information policy to be pursued on the international scene. the budget is €950 million. by comparison, the first programme had a budget of only eur 230 million. the improvements made by parliament to this programme have been very important and i should like to quote them to you as a tribute. first improvement: the criteria for selecting students now remain academic excellence, even in the context of partnerships. secondly, the criteria of geographical distribution will be respected in order to achieve the most balanced representation possible. thirdly, the principles of gender equality and non-discrimination will be respected. fourthly, administrative obstacles and procedures, particularly those relating to visas, will have to be removed. member states will have to take the necessary measures to facilitate the issuing of visas to third-country students who are moving between several member states. we are very keen on this, even though it has been a little difficult in our negotiations with the council to achieve it. secondly, the teaching of foreign languages in the host universities will be encouraged. the doctorates will involve institutions from at least three different european countries. this will allow a wide variety of research topics, theses, and much more varied mobility opportunities. the scholarships will be more tailored and will take into account the amounts of the enrolment fees as well as the amount of the estimated expenditure for the student's studies. the registration fee was worked out in close cooperation with the danish permanent representation and an expert from the danish ministry of education, which enabled us to find a compromise satisfactory to all. public-private partnerships with universities will be encouraged, with particular attention to the issue of brain drain. under action 2 the funds will be allocated and used in accordance with the objectives of the development instruments and external relations. the information available at universities will be clearer. finally, the evaluation report which will be drawn up in two years' time will be more detailed and will be broken down by action and geographical area. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i therefore hope that parliament will adopt it in order to meet the expectations of many students, academics and researchers in europe and the world.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank you in particular for a very lively discussion which only confirms such a consensus-based ground for more and better mobility, that is for a europe which prepares its own students, but also international students, for more open international environments and for responsibility, especially in education. just a few notes, perhaps, on the subject of what sounded. i very much agree that erasmus mundus is a very important instrument, and it is not only for mobility, but also for the process of, for example, making european universities more attractive, for shaping the european higher education area, the bologna process. and the results of this process in a few years are evident not only in the fact that the whole continent is in it, but also in the fact that countries outside europe are signing up to this process, that europe is sharing the largest share of international mobility in the world today. for example, thanks to erasmus mundus, we can tell from chinese officials that more students from china are going to europe today than they are going to the united states at the university level. 75% of the best universities according to the shanghai ranking participate in the erasmus mundus programme. after four years, that's a very significant result. as regards the quality of the selection, the fact that, for example, there are eight applicants for one post in the last four years of the programme, i.e. (8:1), is a strong prerequisite for selection, but it is also a confirmation of the interest and quality of the programme. one university or consortium is given a choice from among the seven. so seven contests and one consortium is selected. the 15% success rate confirms once again the room for excellence. as far as information is concerned, we will make every effort to get it where it is not, so that the share and participation in the programme is more balanced. this applies in particular to the new member states, but also to the international space. as you know, we have recently launched a very important website, study-in-europe.org, which will serve all those interested in accurate information, but in addition, special targeted, targeted information campaigns will be organised. that is why the programme is adapting to allow for two-way mobility, not only to eu countries but also from eu countries, and that is, in my view, a very important qualitative change that will bear fruit. our interest was and remains that, for example, joint diplomas, joint study programmes help reform, help make studying in europe more attractive. and as one can say today, i conclude here, that erasmus mundus after four years is one of the highest quality or top ranking international programmes, so after a certain period i believe that this will also be transferred to the comparison of universities, that european universities will not be traditionally quasi-secondary but will move among the world's top. that's one of the goals of our collaboration. thank you very much, and i wish you the best of luck with the application.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank all the speakers, very many of them. i agree with everything they have said on the substance and i am very pleased to see the very broad consensus that we have here tonight. a big thank you to the european commission for all its help in this work. i would like to thank the committee on culture, its chairman and the secretariat of this committee, which has been very active. i would like to thank all the members of the committee on culture. i would like to thank again those who spoke in the committees for development, foreign affairs and women. i would like to say that i am in full agreement with your objectives. we must improve the participation of women in this programme and we must ensure that the funds used are in line with the development and external relations objectives. this is a matter on which our parliament must remain vigilant, and will remain vigilant in the years to come. if we are close to an agreement at first reading which will come into effect, i think, tomorrow morning, it is because everyone has played his part fully and positively. our discussions with the european commission, the amendments tabled by our colleagues, our discussions in the committee on culture, the work of the committees called in for an opinion - all of this has, in the end, shaped the quality of this programme and is shaping its quality. i thank you very much for that. i think we have done a useful job in showing that europe can be both a bearer of demanding values and a bearer of generosity.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has authorised the construction of fishing vessels until 31 december 2011 for fleets registered in the outermost regions and benefiting from state aid for renewal. i thank the colleagues who stood with me in the tough negotiations with the commission to get two more years than the original proposal. the late adoption of the law authorising member states to grant such aid and the limited capacity of the shipyards would not have allowed these new vessels to be built in time. i am glad that the european commission has listened to the fishermen's demands, although i regret that the communist group did not want to support us. this agreement demonstrates that the european union continues, more than ever, to take account of the specific situation of the outermost regions by agreeing to extend their derogation. let us not forget that state aid for the construction of new ships has been banned in the rest of the european union since 2005! i ask the fisheries ministers to act very quickly on this decision so that the fishermen of the ors can acquire modern vessels with optimum safety conditions.
in writing. the global alliance against climate change must become an effective instrument to enable the poorest countries to adapt to the consequences of climate change, of which they are the first victims. the amendments tabled by the pse in the commission have improved the excellent work of the rapporteur. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national and regional authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. we also deplore the almost systematic use of the edf to finance new initiatives such as the alliance. its use must be strictly controlled so that it can be used to finance development actions and its use limited to the first year of implementation of the alliance. the commission must therefore honour its commitment to find additional funding for the alliance. the ep also called for a strong link between climate change and the current food crisis. the alliance must propose concrete ways of doing this, such as the creation of green belts around the cities of the south to promote subsistence agriculture. finally, we have called for the development of environmental, social and economic criteria for the production of agrofuels and for food security to be guaranteed before promoting export agriculture.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you how much i enjoyed applying the principles of governance myself in the preparation of this report with the various stakeholders. this method of working, moreover, has proved to be very useful in the preparation of this report, since it has enabled me to take account of almost all the proposals of my colleagues, and this resulted in a unanimous vote in the committee on regional development on 9 september. but this consensus would be nothing if it were not embodied in a text that is as concrete and coherent as i shall show you in a moment. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to all my colleagues who have contributed to this report, and in particular to the fictitious rapporteurs who would have liked to be here tonight to show their commitment. i would like to thank the commission, mr commissioner, and thank you for passing them on to them, because this cooperation has been both constructive and pleasant. i would also like to thank the european economic and social committee and its rapporteur, mr van iersel, the committee of the regions, mr kisyov, and the many bodies which took part. so governance, partnership, what is it all about? well, we must have an own-initiative report on this question of governance and partnership, since we talk about governance and partnership every day. you can look in the newspapers, you can look in the reports, you can always find these words! in fact, commissioner, there is a time for words and a time for deeds! there is a time to set goals and there is a time to give oneself the means to achieve them. the need for improved governance has been repeatedly stressed for several years now. we write it in our regulations, we talk about it in our speeches and nothing much progress. what is really happening when we see that the integrated approach is included in the many reports of the commission and parliament? are our european policies on transport, the environment and regional development really taking each other into account? where's the whole-of-the-whole approach we call vows? each has its budget, each its minister, each its commissioner, each its calendar. and we can see, even if only in the case of the structural funds, the application on the ground and separately between the erdf, the esf and other eafrd. as commissioner, you and your colleagues know that we are all committed to achieving the lisbon objectives. but if you continue to do this, to be so compartmentalized on the ground, do you think that's possible? do you think that an organization as powerful as this, as determined as this, can succeed by allowing this "every man for himself" to be juxtaposed on the ground? today, the time has come to bring our skills together, to bring our budgets and our timetables together between the various private and public actors concerned with the same subject in the same territory. to achieve this, my report proposes 37 concrete actions, but i will not list them, only three key points. the first key point is to give the various actors, private, public, individuals, organisations, the means to implement this governance. the first point, as i pointed out to your colleague, mrs danuta hübner, is the creation of a practical guide to governance. it is no longer an abstract message, it must be a practical guide. secondly, the training of elected officials under an erasmus scheme. our local and regional elected representatives must be the real locomotives of this new governance of the territories. secondly, our european and national institutions must set an example. that is why i am asking in my report for an annual meeting of the ministers responsible for cohesion policy in the council. and then you, commissioner, as you know, there are differences between commissioners, between dgs... there is a need for more effective inter-service work. the committee of the regions has anticipated my request, since it already replied to our proposals two weeks ago. thirdly, we must of course have binding arrangements, commissioner. i have little time to develop them further, but i want you to know that we now expect the commission to spearhead this revolution in current practices. we must do what we say! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate our colleague, mr andersson, on his work. but what exactly does the european union want? a single market in which there is unbridled competition and which would crush all collective rights, or a single regulated market which would enable citizens to work in a decent way throughout the whole of europe? the messages from the european court of justice, often from the commission, sometimes from the president of the council, are neither clear nor always consistent. a company is only worth and survives by the contract it makes. deregulation, "every man for himself" leads to even more deregulation and the final explosion of the system. that is not what we want. a very good internal market! but a market as a means of improving the living and working conditions of our fellow citizens. the lisbon treaty sets out a number of principles, including the right to negotiate collective agreements. let us ensure that this principle is respected by the european union and all the member states.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to come before the european parliament once again to report on the work of the council presidency at such an important time for europe. if you will allow me, i will try to speak very freely, as is proper in this chamber, which is the heart of the democratic europe we want. what have we been trying to build? firstly, the presidency wanted the european institutions to be united in all the crises we have had to deal with. i wanted the european parliament to be involved in every moment of the great events we have experienced. and i want to thank the chairmen of your political groups, of all tendencies, who have played the game of dialogue and unity with the council presidency. i also wanted to work hand in hand with the commission, and particularly with its president, mr president of the european parliament, because whatever the differences or the divergences between all those who sit here, everyone knows that the division between the institutions of europe is a weakening of europe, and that the duty of those who assume responsibilities is to work hand in hand. europe will move forward if the european parliament, the commission and the council find a way of consensus on the major issues to make europe's voice heard. (applause) i would like to thank we wanted this europe to be united - which was not easy - to have independent thought, because the world needs the thought of europe, and to be a europe of will! if europe has something to say, let it not just say it, let it do it! first we had the war, with the completely disproportionate reaction of the russians in the georgian conflict. words have meaning. i use the word "disproportionate" because it was disproportionate to intervene as the russians did in georgia. (applause) but i use the word "reaction", because if this reaction was disproportionate, then there was a completely inappropriate action before. europe must be just and not hesitate to go beyond ideological schemes to bring a message of peace. on august 8, the crisis began. on august 12th, bernard kouchner and i were in moscow to obtain the ceasefire. i'm not saying it was perfect, i'm just saying that in four days, europe got a ceasefire. and in early september, europe got the commitment to withdraw to the lines that existed before the crisis of 8 august. in two months, europe had ended a war and had withdrawn its occupying forces! there were several theories. some said - and they had good reason to say - that dialogue was useless, and that the answer to military aggression must be military. this is crazy! europe has seen the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the cold war. europe must not be complicit in a new cold war simply because of a lack of restraint! (applause) i would like to thank this was a problem we overcame with our american allies, who felt that moving to moscow was not appropriate. nevertheless, we played hand in hand with our american allies. their position was not the same as ours. we tried to build collaboration rather than opposition. and frankly, given the state of the world today, i don't think the world needs a crisis between europe and russia! it would be irresponsible. we can therefore defend our ideas on respect for sovereignty, on respect for the integrity of georgia, on human rights, on the differences we have with those who are leading russia, but it would be irresponsible to create the conditions for a confrontation that we do not need. discussions have begun in geneva on the future status of these georgian lands of ossetia and abkhazia. i'm told they start in difficulty, but who could imagine anything else? but the important thing is that they start. i should also like to say that president medvedev has fulfilled the commitments he made to the presidency of the commission and the presidency of the european council when we visited moscow at the beginning of september. europe has made peace. europe has obtained the withdrawal of an occupying army and europe has wanted international talks. it seems to me that europe has not played such a role in a conflict of this nature for a long time! i see, of course, all the ambiguities, all the shortcomings, all the compromises that had to be made, but in my conscience i feel that we have achieved the maximum of what was possible and above all, mr president of the european parliament, that if europe had not made the voice of dialogue and the voice of reason heard, who would have made it heard? and when we left, with bernard kouchner, on 12 august for moscow and tbilisi, all the media in the world knew it well, the russians were forty kilometres from tbilisi and the objective was to overthrow the regime of mr saakashvili! that was the reality! we have come very close to disaster, but thanks to europe, a determined europe, this disaster has not happened, although, mr president pöttering, of course, the road to easing tensions in this part of the world will be long. secondly, the crisis. the financial crisis, systemic, incredible, implausible, which began let's say things as they are on september 15, not august 7, 2007. on august 7, 2007, a serious crisis began, a worrying one, but i dare say, a normal one. on august 15, 2008, we entered another crisis, because what happened on august 15, 2008? it's the lehman brothers collapse. and the world, in shock, learns on august 15, 2008, that a bank may fail! it is not our place, and it is not my place, to pass judgment on what the u.s. government has done or has not done. i simply say, and i assert, that on september 15, 2008, the serious crisis became a systemic crisis with the collapse of the american financial system, then the european financial system, then little by little other stock exchanges and financial systems. at that time, what did we try to do? there was the paulson i plan, which didn't work. it's not criticism just saying it, it's describing a reality. and at that time, with the president of the commission, we tried to build a common european response, first in the euro area. mr president, you have spoken about this, whether we are for or against, the fact remains that in the zone we have the same bank, the same currency, and therefore the same duty of unity! it was not easy to reach a common position. we have first proposed a meeting of the four european countries which are members of the g8. it is not an insult to anyone to say that the influence of the united kingdom, for example, on the world financial system is greater than that of any other country in the group of 27. and i thought that if we could, by some extraordinary fact, bring together english, german, italian and french, it would not be against other europeans, but for the service of other europeans. of course, there were different analyses - and who could blame us? - because in the first days of the crisis, it was not immediately clear what the right response was to a crisis unprecedented in economic history, at least in the 20th century. i thought that after all, after bringing the four together, we should bring together the eurogroup countries plus slovakia, which will join us. and that extra week allowed us to come up with, together, the solution that was to allow the banks to do their job again: lend. but we were in a solution where the banks stopped lending to each other, they had no money to lend and the whole system was collapsing. the nationalized banks in the united kingdom, the bankrupt banks in belgium, the collapse of the icelandic system - out of europe but so close to europe - the very bad news in switzerland and, little by little, the contagion: germany, france, all swept away! and we have managed, in the eurogroup, to agree on a gigantic plan 1.8 trillion euros to enable our financial institutions to do their job and to reassure european savers and entrepreneurs. then we went to the european council, which adopted the same strategy, and from that point on we were able to calm the markets in europe. the paulson ii plan arrived as a pleasant surprise and everyone could see that the paulson ii plan was very much inspired by the european plan. there is no glory to be gained from this, but simply to think: the crisis is global, the answer can only be global. the clock in the united states and the clock in europe must be the same. but all this is crisis management, mr president, nothing but crisis management. it's not over, and if we hadn't, what would have happened? but the real answers are yet to come. how could this have happened? how can we prevent this from happening again? and does europe have any ideas to defend, any policy to propose? and it was in this context that, on behalf of europe, at the united nations general assembly at the beginning of september, i proposed that an international summit be held to create the basis for a new bretton woods, in reference to what had happened in the aftermath of the second world war to bring about a new global financial system. this idea is progressing. what should be europe's objective in this summit? europe must carry the idea of a refoundation of world capitalism. what happened was a betrayal of the values of capitalism, not a challenge to the market economy. no rules, the reward of speculators at the expense of entrepreneurs! we must bring the idea of a new regulation. europe must and will put forward its ideas. firstly, no bank, mr president, which works with state money, can work with tax havens. (applause) mr president, no financial institution should be able to operate without being subject to financial regulation. i would like to see traders calculating and organizing their remuneration system in such a way as not to encourage the kind of reckless risk-taking we have seen. that our banks' accounting rules do not accuse the gravity of the crisis but, on the contrary, allow us to accompany it. that the monetary system be redesigned between fixed exchange rates and no exchange rates between currencies. we've tried everything in the world. can we, the rest of the world, continue to bear the deficits of the first world power without having a say? the answer is clearly no. (applause) i would like to thank it is not necessary to point out who is to blame, we simply need to find ways and means to prevent this from happening again. and then there are many other things to say, but i would like above all for europe to look at global governance in the 21st century. no wonder it doesn't work. we are in the 21st century and we have the institutions of the 20th century. the president of the united states and europe have therefore proposed several summits, starting in mid-november, which will focus on a new regulation, a new global governance. i hope that europe can debate this. i shall have the opportunity to propose to my partners, the heads of state and government, a meeting to prepare for these summits. the question of the re-foundation of our capitalism and our international system is a matter of common concern to the european parliament, which must debate it and put forward its ideas. but europe must speak with one voice if it is to have a chance of being heard. who will be attending the summit? there are many schools. i think the simplest thing is the g8, which is indisputable - with the russians, of course - to which we should add the g5, which is also indisputable and which will allow china and india, in particular, to be involved in this essential debate, and this will be the whole purpose of the visit we are making, with president barroso, to china, to convince the asian powers to participate in this refoundation. mr president, there has been a third subject during this presidency, which is extremely difficult: the future of the energy-climate package. i am well aware that your assembly and some of your groups are divided on what to do next. i would like to express my conviction and the policy i intend to propose. the ambitious energy-climate package is based on the belief that the world is headed for catastrophe if it continues to produce under the same conditions. that's the analysis! (applause) i would like to thank i don't see any argument that the world is better off, environmentally, because of the financial crisis. when we decided to embark on the energy-climate package, we did so with a sense of responsibility towards our children and the future of the planet. it is a structural policy, it is a historical policy, and it would be dramatic to abandon this policy on the pretext that the financial crisis has occurred. (applause) that would be dramatic and that would be irresponsible. why irresponsible? it would be irresponsible because it would send the signal that europe is not determined to make the efforts it has promised to make in this area and if europe does not make these efforts, our chances of convincing the rest of the world that the balances of the planet must be preserved are nil. so it is not simply europe's resignation for itself, it is the resignation of the whole world to the environmental appointment. because if europe is not an example, it will not be heard, respected and listened to. and if europe does not do this job, no one will do it for it! then we've missed our appointment with history. (applause) what does that mean, not being on a date? i think that means two things: firstly, we must look again at the objectives of the 'three times twenty'; the second is that we have to go back to the calendar, which is the end of the year. but i have no intention - and i have no power or will - to question the co-decision in any way. and besides, must you have bad thoughts for lending me this thought! although... to lend me thoughts is already a compliment, dear dany! but in this case we fought with president barroso in the european council to ensure that the objectives were met and that the timetable was respected. it wasn't easy! and so we have a few weeks to convince a number of our partners, whose concerns i understand. because you don't create the conditions for compromise without trying to understand what the person who disagrees with you is saying! there are some economies that are 95 percent coal-based. we cannot ask them to do things that would bring them to their knees, when the difficulties are already immense. we must therefore find ways and means of being flexible, respecting the two red lines i proposed to the council: respect for the objectives and respect for the timetable. i shall have the opportunity, mr president, to explain this more fully in other places, perhaps, but i do not want to abuse your patience. i would like to say that this is what we have been wanting to do, and i hope that everyone will follow. a word on the fourth subject, the immigration pact, to say that i believe it is a good example of european democracy, that despite the differences at the outset, everyone was able to agree on a chosen immigration policy, in consultation with the countries of emigration, so that we draw the consequences of schengen which concern three quarters of the european countries. and if we have abolished visas between us, it is still reasonable that the countries which do not need visas to move from one to the other should have the same body of thought for a european immigration policy. two more points and i'll be done. the first is that the financial crisis has brought us an economic crisis. this economic crisis, it's here! there's no point in predicting it, since we're living it. i personally, as someone who is well aware of the disagreements between certain countries, cannot imagine being told that the financial crisis required a united european response and that the economic crisis did not require a united european response! a word about what "united" means. "one" doesn't mean the same answer! we have proposed a toolbox, a roadmap, harmonization, coordination for the financial crisis. well, i think that economic policy will need the same. this does not mean that we will all do the same, but it does mean that we have an obligation to talk about it, to inform each other and, on certain subjects, to agree. there are several leads. let me just say one thing: scholarships are at an all-time low. i would not like european citizens to wake up in a few months' time to find that european companies are owned by non-european capital, which has bought them at the lowest price on the stock exchange, at a low price, and which then owns them. european citizens would then ask: "what have you done?" i would ask each of us to consider the possibility of setting up sovereign wealth funds in each of our countries, and perhaps these national sovereign wealth funds could coordinate themselves from time to time to provide an industrial response to the crisis! i should add that i have been watching with great interest the american plan for the automobile industry: twenty-five billion dollars of interest rates at unbeatable prices to save the three american car manufacturers from bankruptcy. i would like to take a moment to reflect on this in europe. we are asking our manufacturers - and we are right - to build clean cars now, to completely change their production apparatus. as a result, thanks to the environmental bonus, 50% of the cars sold in my country are now clean cars! can the european car industry be left in a situation of serious distortion of competition with its american competitors without the question of european sectoral policies to defend european industry being raised? this does not mean that the single market should be called into question! this does not mean that the principle of competition should be called into question! this does not mean that the principle of state aid should be called into question! this means that europe must provide a united and not naive response to competition from the other major regions of the world. our duty is to ensure that europe can continue to build airplanes, ships, trains and cars because europe needs a strong industry. well, that's the policy the presidency will fight over! the last point is the institutions. i don't know if it's an "ah" of relief because i'm finishing my speech, or if it's because the other subjects were less important... the institutions are not the only european subject and it was a great mistake to devote too much attention exclusively to this issue! but institutions are a subject. i am convinced that the crisis calls for reform of the european institutions. the crisis presupposes that europe can respond as strongly and as quickly as any other global entity, such as the united states, has been able to respond to the financial crisis. i am one of those who think it would be a very serious mistake not to reform our institutions. it's very serious. and particularly because, to follow complicated issues like georgia and russia, the financial crisis, the economic crisis, it doesn't seem very reasonable to have a rotating presidency every six months. whatever we voted in the last elections, let me say that, frankly, if we love europe and if we want europe to speak with one voice, it does not seem reasonable to me to consider that every six months the presidency of the council must change. and so we will have to build a road map with president barroso for december to see how we can respond to the irish question. and i intend, before i leave the presidency of the council, to propose this road map and to indicate, by consensus, the ways and means of getting out of it. i would also like to say one last thing: the euro zone cannot continue without a clearly identified economic government. we can't go on like this! i want to pay tribute to the ecb's action. i mean my conviction that the ecb must be independent. but for the ecb's action to be fully effective, it must be able to discuss with an economic government. that was the spirit of the treaty! the spirit of the treaty is dialogue, democracy and mutual independence. and in my mind, moreover, the real economic government of the eurogroup is a eurogroup that meets at the level of heads of state and government! and how surprised i was when i asked for this meeting to be held for the first time since the euro was introduced! finally, frankly, we have a currency, we have a central bank, we have a single monetary policy and we have no economic government worthy of the name! the effort, commissioner almunia, to elect a chairman of the finance ministers - i was involved in the decision, i was myself finance minister at the time - is a salutary effort. and i want to pay tribute to the work of jean-claude juncker and to yours. but i want to say one thing: when the crisis takes on the proportions we know, the meeting of finance ministers alone does not measure up to the gravity of the crisis. and when it was necessary to mobilize the funds we have mobilized, it was not the money-changers who had to be mobilized, but the heads of state and government who alone had the democratic legitimacy to take on such heavy decisions. ladies and gentlemen, there is so much more to say! i would simply like to say in conclusion that the world needs a europe that speaks with a loud voice. it is on your shoulders, it is on the commission's shoulders, it is on the council's shoulders. and i would like to tell you all how useful it was for the presidency to feel, beyond the differences, the solidarity of a european parliament which had analysed from the beginning the seriousness of the crisis and which was ready - and i thank you for that - to overlook our differences of sensibility in order to create the conditions for the unity of europe. i wanted to tell you because i feel it very deeply. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council last week was the high point of unprecedented intensity of work to deal with the economic crisis in europe. it ruled out the risk of uncoordinated and piecemeal measures to reach a common position with a view to restoring stability to the european financial system. i would like to pay tribute to president sarkozy, whose dynamism and irreplaceable determination have given the necessary impetus to the action of the 27 around common objectives and principles. i am also proud of the contribution of the commission which, as president sarkozy said, has always worked hand in hand with the french presidency and has always insisted that only a european response could have the impact on the scale required. the momentum we saw at the european council, which also enabled us to adopt a very important pact on immigration, must also guide us in managing the european agenda in the run-up to the european council in december. in particular, a roadmap for the lisbon treaty will need to be drawn up in order to prepare for the 2009 deadlines. as regards the energy and climate change package, it will take a very big effort to reach an agreement before the end of the year. the commission will work closely with the presidency to find solutions that meet the concerns of all member states. we are counting on the continued commitment of parliament to reach an agreement. but i would like to concentrate my remarks today on what must be our immediate major concern: the european economy. we must work on three fronts: first, immediate action at european level to get out of the financial crisis; second, reform of the international financial system; third, strengthening the so-called 'real economy' in order to minimise the consequences of the financial crisis and create the conditions for a revival of growth and employment. i really believe that europe is in a position, by its choices, to influence the international response to the crisis. the camp david meeting last weekend was a powerful demonstration of what europe can achieve when it is united. let's be clear, this was not a given. a month or two ago, it was impossible to have the president of the united states of america with us. but now we have succeeded in bringing our american partners with us and i believe we have created the conditions for a fundamental reform of the global financial system. we are living in unprecedented times, which require an unprecedented level of coordination. we need a genuine european response to this global response. europe must shape the global response to global problems. the rule of globalisation is precisely the respect for the principle of openness and interdependence. europe, instead of suffering from globalisation, must shape globalisation with its values and also defend its interests. i am pleased and proud to see that europe has shown itself to be up to the challenge in this crisis. mr. president, let me give you some more detail about our response to this crisis. our first priority was to play our part, as the commission, in the rescue of financial institutions in difficulty. in doing this we were able to count on the excellent cooperation we have had with member states and with the ecb. our next step was to come forward with a package of precise, targeted measures to address specific shortcomings on capital requirements, deposit guarantees or accountancy rules. speed has been essential, and we have responded by accelerating our work. in the same vein, i was grateful for the rapidity with which this parliament was able to conclude its consideration of the changes in accountancy rules. i know that you fully appreciate that the other proposals on the table deserve the same urgency. we also have to look at what other proposals will be needed to update and fill in the gaps of today's regulatory regime. we will have the credit rating agencies proposal next month. we will come with an initiative on executive pay, based on a review of our 2004 recommendation. we will look at regulating derivatives. we will work constructively with the european parliament on the follow-up to your recent resolutions and will look at the implications for the 2009 commission work programme. no area of financial markets will be absent from this review. one important input for future action will be the results of the high-level group i have set up under jacques de larosière to look at cross-border financial supervision in europe. i am happy to announce to you today the composition of this group. it will be composed of leszek balcerowicz, otmar issing, rainer masera, callum mccarthy, lars nyberg, josé pérez fernández and ono ruding. the band has released three albums, one ep and one ep. i am asking this group to present first results in time for the spring european council, and i will be discussing this afternoon with your conference of presidents how to make sure that parliament is plugged into this work. but as i said earlier, we will also have to promote the reform of the global financial system. the last few months have shown that the bretton woods institutions have not kept up with the pace of integration of global financial markets. european union-united states cooperation will be essential: as you know, the european union and the united states account for almost 80% of wholesale financial markets. this cooperation is important not only to get us out of this crisis but, even more, to avoid another one. in this respect, the discussions president sarkozy and i had with president bush last weekend were a major step forward. but it is not enough. we have to get other major players on board. i will be going to china later this week where, together with president sarkozy, i will raise this issue with the chinese president and prime minister and with other asian partners at the asean summit. we need a critical mass of players involved. the goal should be to devise a system of global financial governance adapted to the challenges of the 21st century in terms of efficiency, transparency and representation. europe is leading the way. this is something we can collectively be proud of, and i want to work with this parliament to make a forceful european contribution to this international debate. but there is also what we usually call the real economy, and we all know that, day by day, the evidence that we are facing a serious economic slowdown is building. the impact is being felt on jobs, household incomes and on the order books of businesses, large and small. one thing must be clear: there is no national road out of this crisis our economies are too intertwined. we will swim or sink together. we must not give in to the siren calls for protection; we must not turn our backs on globalisation or put our single market at risk. this will remain the motor of growth in the european union. neither can we go on with business as usual. europe's economy needs a boost to recover, to continue to grow, to provide employment. first, within europe. we will have to redouble our efforts to address long-term issues and to be in better shape to tackle the challenges ahead, making europe a knowledge economy, investing more in research and development and innovation. the revised stability and growth pact leaves sufficient flexibility for member states' budgetary policies to react to the current exceptional circumstances and to promote growth and jobs. but we also need to look beyond our borders. trade has been key to european growth over recent years. now is the time to be proactive about market access, to make the case that trade barriers will help nobody. i hope we have all learned the lesson that protectionism only makes recovery harder. european industry needs support. smes need to be free to concentrate on their markets. that is why, for example, we recently proposed that our smallest business should be exempt from excessive burdens in terms of accounting rules and statistical reporting. large manufacturing needs help, too. i want to be sure that we are using european programmes like our competitiveness and innovation programme and the research framework programme to best effect. we need to reinforce the synergies between our lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and our climate and energy agenda. promoting investment in low-carbon technologies and energy efficiency measures will, at the same time, support our competitiveness, our energy security and our climate change agenda. the european investment bank will be a valuable partner in this endeavour. europe's citizens need support, too, especially the more vulnerable. it is critically important that, at a time of rising unemployment, we maintain investment in training, we develop new skills and prepare people to take advantage when opportunities return. advancing on our social agenda for access opportunities and solidarity is more important than ever. we shall review the role the globalisation adjustment fund can play. in all these areas we need to be intelligent about how we act. we need to get the most out of every step we take. smart action means hitting two targets with one shot. for example, helping the construction industry, yes, but doing this by promoting an energy-efficient housing stock. using state aid where necessary, yes, but in line with the guidelines directing state aid towards environmental support and research and development. helping key industries like cars why not? but preparing them for tomorrows markets of clean cars. smart support: this is what our industry needs, and not protectionism. this i want to underline very clearly. our lisbon strategy packaged in december will be the opportunity to bring these different strands together. there is no magic bullet to turn around the european union economy. what we have to do is take every option, explore every potential way in which european union policy can help member states to seize every opportunity to put europe on the road to growth. that is our task in the coming weeks. that is what we are preparing, and this is a task i want to tackle together with the european parliament. we are indeed living at a historic time, the kind of occasion where the crisis calls into question all certainties, and minds are more open to change. these are very special moments, and they don't happen every day. we have to understand that it's really one of those moments where there's some higher plasticity and then, when we can make a real change, these are moments when we know that today's decisions will have a decisive impact on tomorrow's reality. change is what we need now. change not to go back to the solutions of the past, but to find the solutions of the future, the solutions of the 21st century of the globalized world. today, europe can propose the principles and rules that will shape a new global order. we have an opportunity to come forward with proposals based on european values, based on open societies and open economies. as i said this weekend at camp david, open societies need the rule of law and democracy. open economies also need rules the rules of transparency, sensible regulation and sensible supervision. europe shows its true colours in times of crisis. in georgia, europe was able to stop a war. in the financial crisis, europe is leading the way towards a global solution. in the next few weeks we must show that we are able to continue to lead in the fight against climate change and to build an energy policy for the future, because we owe it to our citizens, our economies and our partners around the world, as well as to future generations of europeans. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on two occasions this summer europe and the world have been confronted with major crises. europe has shown on two occasions that with political will and unity it can not only take a strong and swift stand but also influence and engage its partners in the world, for example in georgia. i would like to congratulate the french presidency and its president, nicolas sarkozy, on the exemplary action they have taken in these two major crises. he hasn't had a vacation, he's been at work since the beginning of his presidency. the current presidency of the union is doing a great service to europe and to europeans. it shows that europe can exist on the international stage... (whispers) mr president, i would just like to be heard! it shows that europe is worth building and living in. and at the last european council, the guidelines of the eurozone countries were unanimously confirmed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. all of this is going in the right direction. of course, the financial crisis is not behind us, but it is in crisis situations that we can adopt rules for the future and we must adopt rules for the future. i hear it said here and there that we are witnessing the bankruptcy of capitalism, that the free market is to blame for everything. the reality is that if the free market has proven itself, it needs to be accompanied by rules. and those rules have obviously not been in place enough, or they have not been enforced firmly enough. this is what we must work on, and on what kind of ideological challenge, with the help of the central banks and the whole international community. and in this connection i welcome the initiative of the presidency to bring our partners together to define a new global economic and financial situation. what we must ensure is that small savers do not see their efforts wiped out overnight. what we need to ensure is that entrepreneurs, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, can continue to finance their business - a source of jobs and growth - at reasonable rates. our group will support any measure aimed at safeguarding the european model of solidarity and the social market economy, the great value of which we fully appreciate in a time of crisis. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the lisbon treaty, i would once again ask those states which have not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible, so that we can have a comprehensive picture of the final state of ratification. we are asking this because we see the difficulty of europe functioning effectively under the rule of unanimity and without a stable presidency. we hope that the european council in december will decide on a road map and a realistic but also demanding timetable for the crisis. and i would add that if the treaty of nice is to continue to apply in the coming months, it should apply to both the european parliament and the european commission. so i ask everyone here to take responsibility. the commission, which will be set up in autumn 2009 and whose president will be appointed by parliament on 15 july, will have fewer commissioners than member states! this is also the treaty of nice, and a parliament with fewer seats and fewer powers, and a commission with fewer commissioners! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has adopted the european pact on immigration. this is a great success, but there are many new challenges ahead: climate, energy, defence, to name a few. and only by working on the basis of our model of society and by consolidating our social market economy can we provide credible and sustainable answers for our generations. i ask you, mr president-in-office, to move forward with our work. we will do our utmost in parliament so that before the end of the year we have a credible vision, here too, for the world, for the future of our children and grandchildren.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the last person to deny that energy and willpower are necessary in politics, and it is true that the french presidency has demonstrated a level of energy and willpower that has been good for europe. it's just that sometimes i think i'm dreaming. i think i'm dreaming when we talk about crises. because all the crises -- the financial crisis, the ecological crisis, world hunger -- are interconnected, and you can't solve one crisis without solving the others. from that point of view, it is wrong to say that the crisis began in july, september, august! it started years ago. and a minimum of self-criticism by a former french finance minister, a minimum of self-criticism by this commission which, just a year ago, refused any european regulation of financial flows would make them more credible in the future, anyway ... (applause) i would like to thank we are dreaming! as if the current crisis is a natural tsunami that cannot be predicted. no, that's not true. and from there, we can talk. the logic of the crisis is the following, a simple logic: always more, as quickly as possible! it's what created the financial crisis, it's what created the ecological crisis and it's what's fueling world hunger. and that, from there, we keep talking about unbridled growth ... that is, it is the content of the change that is important! and what i found interesting is that everyone talked about the refounding of capitalism, the market economy, but i didn't hear today what the foundation of that refounding was. we need an ecological market economy and a social market economy, which means that we need to challenge the very foundations of our production and our way of life. if we don't ask these questions, which are very, very difficult, we're going to hit the wall again! that is why, when you say, mr president, that we must help to revive the automobile, for example, what i do not understand is that at the same time the germans want to impose co2 discounts on cars, in other words, in effect, legislation on discounts, and in addition, give them money! the car! especially the german car, which has been the most profitable in the last ten years! she's the one who's gonna put money into tax havens. so we're going to give money to mercedes, bmw, audi, so they put their money in tax havens. i don't agree with that! (applause) but it is, because, mr schulz, when you spoke earlier to your colleagues on the right... i am speaking to my colleagues on the right and left - social democrats and christian democrats - who agreed with the german industrial lobby to undercut the climate criteria! yes, mr. schulz, that is the truth! (applause) i would like to thank from there, ... but yes, i'm absolutely right! you can hide, mr. social democrat, you can hide, it was unworthy of your politics! i would like to continue on this, i would like to continue on something very important, which is on growth (interventions off the microphone) shut up, i'm talking! i mean, when you say "growth", we have to talk now about what kind of growth and how to get it. and since the state, today, has taken shares in the banks part of nationalization, etc. , the discussion to be made now is, how are we going to invest? how and why are we going to invest? it's a debate about content. if we invest in climate change, well, we'll do it the old-fashioned way. that is why we must discuss a european recovery plan, you are right, but a european - ecological - recovery plan, what the greens call a green deal, and not just anything! in conclusion, i would like to say two things. on tax havens - you were finance minister - you have to reverse the duty of declaration. that is to say, when any person, any company, any bank is going to put money into a tax haven, that tax haven has to declare to the country of origin the money that has been put in. reverse what has not... transparency is a start when you want to tackle companies that use tax havens. this is a big decision that could move us forward. and finally, i would like to talk, anyway, about the climate package. mr president, you have organised - and mr watson is right - an institutional coup. by stating that such a decision would be taken by the european council, which must take it unanimously. you have opened the pandora's box of vetoes from germany, italy and poland, instead of leaving things as they are, that is to say with the vote of the committees of parliament, with the position of the commission, with the council of environment ministers. we had the opportunity to decide on a climate package by qualified majority co-decision. by postponing this to december, you have abolished codecision and qualified majority voting! you will pay dearly for this, because you are now subject to the veto of the countries i have just mentioned. so i say yes to your will for europe, yes to energy for europe, yes to the fact that we must move forward, or that europe must be independent, but at the same time we still have long, great differences on the "how", on european democracy and on the ecological content of the need for recovery. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, never since the european parliament has existed have we had to respond to a multidimensional crisis of such magnitude and gravity, and we cannot help fearing that the worst is yet to come. first, many countries in the south, which are in principle partners of the european union, are on the verge of collapse: the food, ecological and energy crises have been joined by the financial crisis. they're not responsible for it, but they're getting the full extent of it. the fall in revenue, the fall in investment and the fall in growth are the main neglected elements of the international mobilization, to the point that the director-general of fao, mr diouf, had to point out that only 10% of the emergency funds promised by the major powers last june have been paid to date. anyone who wants to moralize capitalism is definitely getting something out of it. the emerging countries are also affected by the crisis, but the social consequences are not yet measurable. on our doorstep is a state once touted as a model of success, iceland, which is threatened with bankruptcy. within the union, new member states such as hungary, which can no longer even place its treasury bonds, are faced with extremely acute problems which will result in unheard-of sacrifices for the people. the change is also spectacular in countries such as britain, ireland and spain, just mentioned. everywhere, the shock is considerable. in france, this may also be the case if the recession further aggravates a particularly tense social climate due to massive job cuts, falling public spending, financially suffocating local authorities and plans to privatise public services. i'm not sure i'm supposed to know. no, because if each of our countries is threatened by a social crisis of unimaginable proportions, it is because this is a model of development for which our peoples are paying a heavy price today. it has sprung up across the atlantic and across the channel, but the european union has fully embraced it with the shift in the international balance of power some 20 years ago. since then, the commission has been pointing out this model to us month after month, and it is this model which permeates our treaties, the case law of the court and many of our policies. that is why, mr president of the european council, i cannot share your diagnosis of the terrible disease which is eating away at our societies. the spark that set off the gunpowder is certainly to be sought in new york. but the fuel that has been burning is as much in europe as in america, and all the political leaders who have worked for europe's strategic shift over the last twenty years have to answer to our fellow citizens. they cannot now take the necessary steps to introduce accounting standards, financial supervision by credit rating agencies or golden parachutes. but beyond that, it is the heart of the system that must be changed: money for profit, and profit for money, this vicious spiral that generates the devaluation of work, wage deflation, rationing of social spending and also the waste of the planet's resources and the marginalization of a huge part of the world's population. the index is not misleading: only 2% of monetary transactions today concern the production of goods and services, 98% are related to finance. addressing the root causes of the problem therefore means addressing the increasingly drastic criteria of financial return, which are totally incompatible with the indiscriminate promotion of human potential and with truly sustainable development. similarly, a bretton woods ii worthy of the name should aim at establishing collective control of money creation on a world scale, i.e. replacing the false world common currency of the dollar with a real world common currency which aims to serve as a lever to correct the unbearable inequalities that destabilize the world and to contribute to the balanced development of humanity and the planet. we are so far from it that it is better at this stage to avoid excessive superlatives about the refoundations in the making, unless the sudden propensity of european leaders to want to transform the world is inspired by the motto of prince salina in the cheetah: "change everything so that nothing changes". but then, soon, the awakening may be painful! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the council and president of the french republic, we are discussing palliative care for the sick, but we are very discreet about the causes of the disease. how could no eu institution have foreseen the current crisis? the council, the commission, the central bank, and even, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament, and none of the governments of the member states! the crisis was predicted, it is true, by only a handful of economists, such as the nobel prize winner maurice allais, and by politicians, mainly from our family of minds, such as, once again, jean-marie le pen. vox clamens in deserto, what a shame! the crisis is, however, clearly that of the euro-globalist system, of unbridled free trade, of the terrifying disconnect between financial fiction and our declining economic and industrial realities, which could tomorrow be the object of sovereign funds from third states taking advantage of the present situation. your very activity, mr president, is a sign of the union's inadequacy: a meeting of four on saturday 4 october, not of twenty-seven; a bilateral meeting with germany alone on the 11th; a meeting of the fifteen members of the eurogroup alone; a meeting with the president of the united states of america to convince him to organize yet another meeting theoretically to re-establish the whole system, to which only six of the twenty-seven member states, the usa, japan, russia, india and china, would be invited. i don't prejudge the usefulness of these meetings. i say that this is a return to bilateral or multilateral diplomacy, which shows that although the union is not responsive, is entangled in bureaucratic norms, and is bulimic with competences that it is not able to exercise, it is an outdated framework. the report of the european council is a good example of this if one can read between the lines. it ratifies your initiatives, it implores the central bank in hushed tones to loosen the maastricht criteria a little, but it does not decide anything. you mentioned the situation in georgia and your efforts. but how can we fail to see that the unilateral recognition of kosovo's independence paved the way for the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia? how can we justify the indefinite extension of nato when the warsaw pact itself has disappeared? mr president, the way forward is different. it implies a radical break with the globalist system, a complete re-examination of the alleged benefits of the universal blending of people, goods and capital. the unequivocal defence of our independence and identity is not to isolate ourselves, but is, on the contrary, the condition for the return of our influence in the world.
mr president, europe took its first steps as a political actor in the wake of the global financial crisis. and under your presidency, under the french presidency, the heads of state and government have made the right decisions. and it seems to me that the european plan is more inspired than the paulson plan, and i hope that it will be able to limit the damage. of course, now we must go further. the reform of the world financial system, which we all want to see, will only be possible - and i am firmly convinced of this - if europe is now able to exert its influence. and to do that, we're going to have to come up with new ways. we will have to set up a european financial markets authority and a european banking commission. we need a european regulator who will, at that time, be able to talk to american regulators and we will need to be able to end tax havens on our own continent if we are to be credible in advocating this idea at the global level. similarly, to deal with the economic and social crisis we are facing, we will need a european response. we need a common action plan to serve our fellow citizens and to invest together in non-delocalised activities in the future - i am thinking, for example, of heavy infrastructure or a plan to meet environmental standards in the building sector. we will need economic governance of the euro area, it is only a matter of time. but even more so, tomorrow we will need to think, define, carry and inspire a european development model which is ethical, humane, social and sustainable in every sense of the word.
mr president, i would like to say that during this financial crisis you yourself have been forced to challenge the dogmas of the institutions: brussels, frankfurt, competition, the maastricht criteria, the world system of free trade, the prohibition on the states helping companies and, in particular, banks, etc. you mentioned a moment ago the sovereign wealth fund issue, which is extremely important for the future, to save our companies when they are, or when they are, because they are, at a low price. but today, mr president, the treaty of lisbon - which the european leaders, and you in particular, were trying to keep alive artificially - would have prevented you from doing what you have just done. it prohibits all restrictions on the movement of capital. it prohibits all political intervention and influence on the central bank and, above all, all state aid to all enterprises. the question is simple: what choice will you make, mr president? hands tied or hands free? the lisbon treaty is no longer needed to have a free hand, but a treaty which takes account of the lessons we have all just learned together.
mr president, the russian-georgian conflict and the financial crisis have given the european union the opportunity to assert itself on the world stage as a full-fledged political actor of the highest order. thanks to your determination, mr president-in-office, europe has succeeded in uniting and finding coordinated, effective and rapid responses. in the face of crises, europe proves that it exists and demonstrates its added value. in the case of immigration, for example, there was no longer a season for each individual. the adoption by the european council of the pact on immigration and asylum, initiated by the french presidency, is a significant step forward. on the fight against climate change, europe must set concrete goals and show the way to its global partners. you have already spoken on this subject, mr president-in-office, but we want this agreement to be as balanced as possible, because it must take account of the economic situation of our countries, which is very unstable at the moment. but we also have to ask ourselves what kind of development we will choose for the future. to meet the challenges ahead, the european union needs the lisbon treaty more than ever. we understand the concerns of our irish friends, but the status quo is not an option. ireland must come up with a solution at the european council in december. many of us ask that. in recent weeks we have seen with pride a strong political europe, united in adversity, determined in the face of its partners, and listened to on the international stage. we want this new european mentality to become the rule and to last. the lisbon treaty is the best solution we have to achieve this.
madam president, i very much regret that mr pöttering did not give me the floor when i called him, since i called him simply for a right of reply, and i would have preferred it to be in the presence of the president of the council. i am outraged by the ostracism expressed here against the french socialists. i have never, never seen a president of the council call into question any political party! i have never seen a french president ridicule his fellow countrymen in an international forum such as ours and, as a result, i consider it a mistake and i would have liked to have had a formal apology from the government of the republic. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr atkins, now, if you will, we will continue the debate. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect your speaking time scrupulously. you won't be surprised if i cut you off.
madam president, i am the first french socialist to be included in the debate. i regret the departure of the president of the european council, who thought it good to joke about a great party in his great country. he has the right to do so, but he has a duty to stay and listen to the answer. and that's what i blame him for. i also do not think it is right that the president of the european council should try to divide one of the major groups in this parliament. martin schulz had answered him. when you sell french socialism, what are you selling? we forget that he gave europe françois mitterrand, we forget that he gave europe jacques delors - (applause) - and we forget that for the european credibility of the president of the french republic, he even borrowed two socialists, bernard kouchner and jean-pierre jouyet.
madam president, when we look at the council's conclusions, we are struck. the question of pay is one of them and rightly so, it is a major issue which we must deal with together in a responsible manner. but there is also the question of tax havens and on this i have the impression - but perhaps i have misread - that even between the lines the text is rather silent. the president-in-office of the european council has indicated how ambitious we must be and not follow the lowest common denominator, and i invite him to continue along this line, also on the question of tax havens! and i would also invite president barroso to perhaps expand his task force to deal with this crisis to include commissioner kovács, if we really want to deal with these issues. finally, i would ask the commission to ask the member states to revise their national action plans. what is this coordination of economic policies that we would be making on the basis of national programmes which would not even have incorporated the recession forecasts that we will have to face? if we are serious about economic governance, the commission must require member states to revise their copy in the light of the reality of the economic situation facing our member states. finally, each one has gone his own way and, finally, we have a little european consultation. but that's not enough! we have a historic opportunity to put in the hands of the states the tools to influence the reality of the economic policies and economic and industrial strategies of the member states. then let's make the most of it! and, on behalf of the commission, you must take the initiative to frame the way in which the member states will use the nationalisation of banks to make them tools for financing, in the long term, the investment we need... (the president withdrew the floor).
madam president, mr minister, i was in tbilisi when the president came to negotiate the peace plan and, of course, i pay tribute to him for acting quickly and for stopping this war. but this war is a bit of a failure. we have been cold-blooded for 14 years, silently watching the escalation of provocations in the separatist regions. the war has certainly awakened europe to its responsibilities. but the fire in the caucasus is still burning and we must do everything we can to bring about a permanent settlement of the frozen conflicts for the sake of the security of the whole of europe. i am also aware of the divisions, mr minister, in the european countries over georgia's entry into nato, and i am personally against it. and i will make you a proposal: i ask the european union to propose the status of neutrality for these countries in the caucasus. only the status of neutrality can ease tensions with russia and permanently prevent this subregion from new conflicts. this status will ensure the security of these young democracies and contribute to our own security.
the debate is closed. i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 22 october 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. my first words will be to the french presidency of the union, held by nicolas sarkozy, president of the french republic, to congratulate him on the energy, heart and vision with which he is taking up his mandate. from the avoided war in the caucasus to the action taken to resolve the financial and economic crisis, the presidency has shown how much we need a strong and united european union and a stable presidency to defend our values in a fast-moving and highly complex world. as regards the financial crisis and the continuity needed for the economy to function properly, i am in favour of the intervention of the states with their financial power to restore confidence. the states use what we call in the private sector the 'off balance sheet', i.e. guarantees. it is in this context that i have come up with the idea of considering the creation of a global public instrument for rating states, which would be placed with the international monetary fund (imf) and whose governance would be unquestionable and independent. this global public rating agency would be of great use for the smooth functioning of the world's finances and economy and, therefore, for social progress.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
that seems reasonable to me. no one objecting? this is what has been decided (the vote on the andersson report (a6-0370/2008) is postponed to 22/10/2008).
is there any objection to this oral amendment? i don't see any. (the oral amendment was accepted)
madam president, this debate clearly shows that the matter is not yet mature. these questions should have been discussed in committee, of course. that is why, in accordance with our rules of procedure, i have the honour to ask you to refer this report back to committee.
so amendments nos 32 to 37 are therefore obsolete. so we go on, there was an expression in the name of the groups. before the vote on the legislative resolution
mrs muscardini, we were just told that the amendments had expired. once they're expired, i can't put them to a vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and on the enforcement of the obligation to insure against such liability, on the basis of the report by my british colleague diana wallis. this proposal is part of the consolidation of community law, which i think is improperly called codification. this is commendable, but i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to codify all legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and the proper understanding of community legislation, the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are codifying various directives dating from 1972, 1983, 1990, 2000, 2005 and texts amending them. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pressure vessels on the basis of the report by my british colleague diana wallis. this proposal is part of the consolidation of community law, which i believe is improperly called codification. this is commendable, but i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to codify all legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and a good understanding of community legislation, the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case we are consolidating various directives dating from 1987, 1990, 1993 and the texts which have amended them. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not normal, particularly with regard to the member states and the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products on the basis of the report by my british colleague diana wallis. this proposal is part of the consolidation of community law, which i believe is improperly called codification. i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to proceed with the codification of legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and a good understanding of community legislation, the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are consolidating the 1992 council regulation and the texts which amended it four times in 1994, 2003, 2005 and 2006. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not normal, particularly with regard to the member states and the citizens.
in writing. i voted the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the application of the protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the treaty establishing the european community on the basis of the report by my british colleague diana wallis. this proposal is part of the consolidation of community law, which i believe is improperly called codification. i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to proceed with the codification of legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are consolidating the 1993 council regulation and the texts which amended it three times in 2000, 2002 and 2005. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not normal, particularly with regard to the member states and the citizens.
in writing. i voted the legislative resolution approving, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a council regulation on the application of article 81 of the treaty to air transport, on the basis of the report by my british colleague diana wallis. this proposal is part of the consolidation of community law, which i believe is improperly called codification. i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to proceed with the codification of legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are consolidating the 1987 council regulation and the texts which have amended it five times in 1990, 1992, 1994, 2003 and 2004. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not normal, particularly with regard to the member states and the citizens.
in writing. i voted for the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a council regulation amending the 2000 regulation implementing the decision on the system of the communities' own resources on the basis of my distinguished french colleague, former minister alain lamassoure. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i think it is worth recalling that the council has asked the commission to carry out a full and thorough analysis of all aspects of eu expenditure and resources and to report back to it in 2008/2009. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, i support the fact that parliament is duly involved in all phases of the analysis. in this context, it should be remembered that the current financial perspective 2007-2013 was approved as part of a political compromise to review the correction of the uk contribution.
in writing. mr lamassoure's report on the european union's own resources system is clearly ideological: it refuses to go into, i quote, 'the details of an outdated, unfair and not very transparent system' whose main flaw, in the rapporteur's view, lies in the fact that it is not the european parliament that decides. and that is good, because if this assembly were to be heard, it would be a good thing if european taxpayers were to have to pay an additional tax directly from brussels! the free consent to taxation (by citizens or their representatives) is a fundamental principle of the rule of law, just as the power to levy taxation is a prerogative of the state. and that's where the real trouble is. the european union is not a state and cannot in any case claim the power to levy tax. moreover, it has consistently demonstrated, in spite of the french, dutch and irish rejection of the european constitution, that it has nothing to do with the free consent of the peoples. unfortunately, she prefers lying, manipulation or even coercion.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my belgian colleague gérard deprez, i voted for the legislative resolution amending the draft council framework decision on the european evidence warrant to collect objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. like many of my colleagues, i welcome the proposal for a council framework decision which provides for the application of the principle of mutual recognition to a european mandate to obtain objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings. this european remit, hereinafter referred to as the 'european evidence mandate', will allow for faster and more effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters and will replace the current regime of mutual legal assistance in this area, in accordance with the conclusions of the european council.
in writing. i voted, on the basis of the report by my finnish colleague kyösti virrankoski, for a resolution to approve, without amendment, draft amending budget no 7/2008 of the union for the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 12.8 million in commitment and payment appropriations. this amount is intended to help the people of the french overseas departments of guadeloupe and martinique, which suffered extensive damage after hurricane dean in august 2007. this draft amending budget is totally neutral from a budgetary point of view, since it provides for a corresponding reduction in payment appropriations on line 13.04.02 relating to the cohesion fund. it is important to note that this draft budget is the first to be devoted solely to the eu solidarity fund as requested by the european parliament.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my distinguished german colleague, mr reimer böge, i voted in favour of the resolution approving without amendment the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide assistance to france affected in 2007 by hurricane dean in the overseas departments of martinique and guadeloupe. a total of eur 12.8 million in commitment and payment appropriations will be mobilised from the solidarity fund for that country, via an amending budget for 2008 adopted in parallel. this represents 2.5% of an estimated direct damage of eur 511.2 million.
in writing. our parliament has just approved the €12.78 million aid proposed by the european commission for martinique and guadeloupe, to cover part of the emergency expenditure incurred last summer following the passage of cyclone dean. financial aid will be welcome, especially as martinique and guadeloupe are still feeling the effects of the damage caused by dean, particularly in the housing and banana and sugar cane sectors. the solidarity fund, which is intervening here under an exception to the general rules, is particularly important for the outermost regions, given the multiplicity of threats that regularly weigh on their populations, while the caribbean was again hit last week by the cyclone omar. i have been very committed, since the creation of this fund in 2002, to the doms to benefit from this type of support. the experience gained by the french government in presenting its requests, and the understanding shown by the commission, the european parliament and the council, reassure us of europe's ability to stand by the overseas populations facing major crises.
in writing. i voted, on the basis of the report by my distinguished german colleague, reimer böge, in favour of the resolution approving the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation, in the framework of the general budget of the european union for 2008, of eur 10.8 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the automotive sector in spain and the textile sector in lithuania. for spain (proposal to allocate eur 10.5 million), the request concerns 1 589 redundancies, of which 1 521 occurred at delphi automotive systems españa, in puerto real, province of cadiz, andalusia, a manufacturer of automotive components owned by delphi automotive systems holding inc. with its headquarters in troy, michigan, usa. for lithuania (proposal to allocate eur 0.3 million), the request concerns 1 089 job losses caused by the closure of alytaus tekstilė, a textile company, during a reference period of four months.
in writing. i voted for the resolution following the commission communication on building a global alliance against climate change between the european union and the poorest and most vulnerable developing countries on the basis of the own-initiative report by my swedish colleague anders wijkman. it is now established that the least developed countries (ldcs) and small island developing states (sids) will be hit the earliest and hardest by the effects of climate change. these countries have the least resources to prepare for these changes and to change their way of life. climate change is therefore likely to further delay the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in many of these countries and i welcome the global climate change alliance (gcca) proposed by the european commission between the eu and the poor developing countries most vulnerable to climate change, including ldcs and ldcs; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i consider that the budget allocated to this approach of €60 million is very insufficient.
in writing. yes, we must help developing countries, especially ldcs and small island states, to limit the effects of global warming. because they will be the first victims, without being held accountable! today, africa is the "forgotten continent" of the climate negotiations...but this ambition must be translated into a financial commitment that is up to the challenge. that's where the stick hurts... the budget of €60 million provided by the european commission is not enough. the long-term funding target should be at least eur 2 billion per year by 2010 and eur 5-10 billion per year by 2020. to finance this increase, the commission and the member states must devote at least 25% of the revenue from the community's emissions trading scheme. we also call for financial support, technical assistance and technology transfer measures to facilitate the use of low greenhouse gas emission technologies. finally, new sources of finance must be made available. if development funds and the edf are used once again, this alliance will be nothing but a "deceiver's market".
in writing. i voted for the resolution on governance and partnership at national and regional level, and a basis for projects in the field of regional policy based on the own-initiative report by my french colleague jean marie beaupuy. i fully share the idea that, in the interests of simplification and efficiency, the feasibility of merging the various community funds in the future post-2013 cohesion policy should be examined.
in writing. mr beaupuy's report is very informative. it talks about the governance of structural policy and shows that, far beyond a rebalancing of the levels of development of all the regions of the european union, the real aim of regional policy led by brussels is to change in depth the territorial organisation of the member states and thus their administrative and political structures. actually, that's not really a surprise. everything is being done in this europe to bypass or destroy the nation-states: from above, by entrusting its powers to the european superstate; from below, by promoting, against the traditions of certain states, against the natural or identity borders of the provinces, and with billions of euros, the "region" as a privileged level of infra-national organization or the constitution of infra-national transfrontier spaces. the 'integrated approach' of european legislation, which the rapporteur welcomes and which involves taking this dimension into account in all european policies with a territorial, economic and social impact, is contributing to this development. beyond the electoral manipulations, this is certainly the framework in which mr sarkozy's administrative reform project should be analysed.
in writing. the commission has just published its 24th annual report on its monitoring of the application of community law by the member states. the question that arises is whether there are any differences or improvements compared to the previous one. apparently not. the bad pupils of europe would therefore be the states as always! what is the rapporteur's solution? more and more firmness towards the states, more referral to the court of justice if necessary and more firmness in the implementation of the judgments given by the court of justice. in short: more powers of coercion and repression for the european institutions over the member states. the community legal order, which the treaties have already established as a higher standard than national rights, is now becoming more and more oppressive and destructive of the rights of the states. we are resolutely hostile, because the encroachment on national rights and the legal specificities of each one will inevitably lead to the encroachment of the states themselves on a europeanist and federalist whole.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on a strategy for the future implementation of the institutional aspects of the regulatory agencies, on the basis of the own-initiative report of my excellent colleague and friend, the former greek minister georgios papastamkos. it is regrettable that the efforts of parliament and the commission to establish a legally binding framework for european regulatory agencies have not produced any significant results. i share the view of the vast majority of my colleagues who deplore the lack of a general strategy for the creation of eu agencies and it is becoming urgent and necessary for the council and the commission to work together with parliament to establish a clear, common and coherent framework for the future role of agencies in european governance with the need for parliamentary control over the constitution and functioning of regulatory agencies.
in writing. the european union has 29 agencies, which are truly micro-institutions, costing over €1 billion and whose usefulness is questionable. the rapporteur is therefore right to call for more transparency and accountability in the management of these multiple agencies, for real political control over their activities, for an evaluation of existing agencies, for a moratorium on the creation of new ones, and for a cost-benefit analysis before any decision is taken. but the real problem is the very existence of these agencies, additional layers of european bureaucracy, some of which have regulatory powers, others executive functions that interfere with, if not complicate, the work of national administrations. the real problem is their proliferation, their dispersion across europe, their seats being distributed as so many patronising gifts. the real problem is that 40% of them are based on article 308 of the treaty, the famous article which allows for the extension of the powers of brussels when they are not expressly provided for in the texts. because this report solves nothing, we cannot approve it. but because it is, nevertheless, an attempt to put some order into this mess, we cannot reject it. that's why we're not going to vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing an action programme to improve the quality of higher education and promote intercultural understanding through cooperation with third countries (erasmus mundus) (2009-2013) on the basis of the report by my french colleague marielle de sarnez. i support the compromise amendments on academic excellence, equity in terms of geographical coverage, public information for this programme, the need to remove all legal and administrative obstacles to exchange programmes between european countries and third countries (the visa problem). i also support the need for measures to be taken under the programme to ensure that students, doctoral students, post-doctoral researchers and academics from the least developed third countries (acp = africa, the caribbean, the pacific, in particular) return to their countries of origin after their stay, in order to avoid any 'brain drain'. finally, the commission has adopted a communication on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which sets out the main priorities for the future of the union.
in writing. the objective of encouraging mass economic immigration, already stated on 11 january 2005 by the european commission in its green paper on 'a community approach to the management of economic migration', is more relevant than ever with this report. as much as eur 950 million is allocated to the erasmus mundus ii programme for the period 2009-2013. this programme is designed to attract foreign students and teachers to the european union. this is some 654 million more than the amount allocated to the first version of the programme! in reality, under the laudable pretext of encouraging students from third countries to come to europe to study by offering them high-level master's or doctoral degrees, the doors are being opened to a new legal immigration channel. foreigners from third countries will be granted easier access to the european territory, in particular through simplified visa procedures and adapted scholarships and registration fees. far from favouring its own nationals and encouraging the european research and excellence it so needs, the union is once again showing its inclination towards foreign preference and mass immigration.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on genetically modified micro-organisms (recast) on the basis of the report by my hungarian colleague jozsef szajer. i regret that, in view of the evolution and complexity of the texts, the commission did not revise its position of 1 april 1987 to instruct its departments to proceed with the codification of legislative acts at the latest after their tenth amendment, while stressing that this was a minimum rule and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible at even shorter intervals. in this particular case, we are revising the 1990 directive and the texts which amended it four times in 1994, 1998, 2001 and 2003. initially intended to be codified, directive 90/219/eec was finally recast to introduce the necessary amendments to adapt it to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny introduced in 2006. i believe that the policy of consolidating community law should be a priority for the european commission and the current situation is not normal, particularly with regard to the member states and the citizens.
in writing. i voted the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a council regulation amending the 2003 regulation as regards jurisdiction and establishing rules on the law applicable in matrimonial matters, on the basis of the report by my german colleague evelyne gebhardt. the increase in the mobility of citizens within the european union, which has led to an increase in the number of 'international' couples, i.e. couples in which the spouses are of different nationalities or reside in different member states or in a member state of which at least one of the spouses is not a national, and the high divorce rate in the european union, have made it necessary to legislate on the applicable law and on matrimonial jurisdiction, which affect an increasing number of citizens every year. it must be constantly recalled that the treaties provide for the progressive establishment of a common area of freedom, security and justice and for measures to 'promote the compatibility of the rules applicable in the member states in matters of conflict of laws and jurisdiction'.
in writing. the new legislation proposed concerns divorces for 'international couples', i.e. those whose spouses have different nationalities or reside in different states. the aim is to lay down the rules on the competent court and the applicable law in order to overcome the legal uncertainty in this area. the law applicable is currently determined by national conflict-of-law rules, which vary widely between member states and are complex. most member states determine the applicable law on the basis of attachment or residence criteria (lex loci). other states systematically apply their national law (lex fori), which can of course lead to the application of a law with which the spouses have only tenuous ties and to a result which does not comply with the requirement of legal certainty. the new regulation proposes harmonization of these conflict-of-laws rules. we are in favour of this because it should make this tragedy more predictable, and above all because it is in the interests of the safety of children who are too often victims of the disunity of their parents.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, mr minister, since this is a time of contrition, i have the impression that this is the mood of the day, at least for a review of dogmas and reflections, and i am grateful to the president of the french republic for giving a sincere illustration of this this morning, so let us also review our old, very old distrust of russia, or rather of this country which is, whether we like it or not, one of our partners. in this respect, i would also advise you - as my distinguished liberal colleague did - to read a biography of the comtesse de ségur, particularly that of mrs strich, in the excellent bartillat editions, and you will see the weight that must be given to the word you have spoken twice - if i have listened to you correctly - the word 'interdependence'. yes, of course, we are interdependent, but not just in the fight against terrorism or weapons of mass destruction. we are in all respects, in energy, that is obvious, but also in research, in industry and in politics, in many ways, of course. and let us think about what the face of europe will or will not be in the 21st century depending on whether our nations are still associated with the development of the immense riches of siberia. so please, let us stop engaging in quarrels which are not our own, which are the quarrels of a third power whose interest is to divide europe in order to dominate it. and believe me, i am thinking of the interests of europe, if you will accept that the french sovereignty-seekers also have this matter of concern in mind.
mr president, next week they will start constructing a formula 1 circuit in moscow. when you construct a circuit, you have to stick to the engineer’s plan. there are no two ways about it. we are supposed to be the engineers of democracy in this house, and maybe we should talk, not really about the eu-russia relationship but about the eu-kremlin relationship, because the leaders of the kremlin will change one day, and we hope that they will change for the better. of course we want russia in and we want the kremlin in. nobody can argue with that, but the question is: on whose terms? it cannot be on their terms. it has to be on universal terms of universal values. we are supposed to defend the very foundation of the eu. if you are a member of the scouts, you have to be a law-abiding member of the scouts. if we condone these current – how should i say – practices of the kremlin regime, we are in a way denying ourselves the raison d’être of the eu. we are also betraying the russian people, because we have to support democratic forces all over the world. no double measures. we have to give hope to those people who are fighting for the fundamental values in life. that is our duty. if russia becomes democratic, we must welcome them to any international structure. we have to see far ahead, as our forefathers did. why should russia not one day belong to a reformed eu or nato? we will never know. mr monnet and mr schuman were very far-sighted people. that is the way forward. this discussion is becoming very serious, so may i remind you – when i think of our relationship – of just one russian anecdote. a chicken said to a pig, ‘let us have a joint venture. let us have a breakfast company. i will bring eggs and you will bring bacon’!
mr president, at a time when all our debates are inexorably revolving around the crisis, like whirling dervishes, i cannot resist the temptation to call my colleague dan jurgensen's approach cyclical, but this time virtuous and, moreover, virtuous in its transparency. public procurement, to stimulate the replacement of old car fleets by new vehicles, is the economy at the service of the environment; the reduction of co2 emissions in the service of demand generation is the environment in the service of the economy, a perfect balance structuring this virtuous cycle in terms of budget, ecology and transparency. at that price it will be a real factor of progress. to do this, it must be under two auspices: a true assessment of the cost of a vehicle throughout its life and transparency of local decisions so that a citizen's audit of the consequences for the benefit of the environment can take place. without transparency, it will be a cycle, but far from virtue. i would like to commend the work done by our colleague in strengthening this transparency. by having all the data on their purchases and a record of the actual intentions of local authorities to acquire clean vehicles, each citizen will be able to measure and evaluate concretely and publicly, beyond the speeches, the reality of the commitments. in this spirit, we can only encourage the creation of an eco-label, a visible, legible and comprehensible witness to this ecological virtue. far from being a brake, the european automobile industry, in this period of crisis, will find in this new demand for clean, eco-labelled vehicles, material for development, material for response. the economic crisis must not be used as an excuse to abandon the efforts to change our practices to reduce the harmful effects on the environment. on the contrary, we have an opportunity. let us seize it to create new virtuous cycles, thinking of our planet, here and now, but above all for future generations.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to warmly congratulate the council, the commission and my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, on their cooperation on this dossier of amendments to marketing authorizations for medicinal products. medicinal products, regardless of the procedure used for their marketing authorization, must be able to be subject to the same evaluation, approval and administrative treatment criteria in the event of modification. these changes, known as variations, concern, for example, manufacturing methods, the introduction of a new therapeutic indication, updating of the information sheets, or administrative changes. such variations must be reported to the competent authorities by the marketing authorization holders of a medicinal product. but the current management of variation is proving increasingly ineffective. it is no longer satisfactory, either for the authorities or for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole. there's too much red tape, at the expense of patients, who have delayed access to better medicines. the pharmaceutical industry devotes an increasingly important part of its regulatory work to managing these variations. for example, for a medium-sized company producing generic medicines with more than 400 products on its list, the total number of variations submitted is more than 4 000 per year. for a large company, this number can be as high as 19 000. amendments to purely national marketing authorisations follow specific provisions for each member state which differ from european regulatory requirements. since 80% of all medicines, both human and veterinary, are authorised through the national procedure, this review has a considerable impact on the pharmaceutical market in the european union. the same amendment concerning products authorised by national procedure in different member states is therefore treated differently as regards the dossier to be submitted and the evaluation procedure. this situation therefore has negative repercussions, i.e. it imposes an additional and unjustified administrative burden on the competent authorities and pharmaceutical companies, a difficulty in forecasting the implementation of the amendments, significant differences in the time-frame for the introduction of the amendments at the level of the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet, for healthcare professionals and for patients, and thus has an impact on the overall functioning of the internal market for pharmaceutical products. finally, it is unfavourable to patients, since the introduction of certain modifications to improve the efficacy of a medicinal product may be delayed or, worse, not be introduced at all. the main purpose of my report is therefore to simplify and harmonize the rules on these variations in the marketing authorizations for medicinal products. with this directive, the situation will be simpler, clearer and more flexible for all actors. the rules on variations will be the same everywhere, regardless of the type of authorization, whether it is a national authorization, mutual recognition, or centralised recognition of the medicinal product. the simplification of these variations will result in their being subject to the same criteria for authorization, administrative management and monitoring of the changes introduced. it does not matter which legal procedure these drugs have been authorised by. i have also proposed a further improvement to the system where a change affects more than one marketing authorization. in such a case, it shall be possible to submit a single application covering all such mmfs. i know, mr president, that the commissioner is going to speak to us about the counterfeiting of medicines. we are very much looking forward to his statement because it is important that this package, which includes the counterfeiting of medicines, can be offered to us. we've been waiting for this for a long time. counterfeiting is a crime, and it's a public health issue. it is important that the commissioner can tell us where he stands because we are looking forward to this text and, in any case, we give it our full support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke and supported the report i have presented to you. i would remind those who are unfortunately no longer here but who have expressed some concerns that this is really an improvement, a harmonization, a simplification of procedures. but simplifying procedures does not mean that there is a decline in quality, a decline in controls. this means lower costs for industry and especially for smes, and this is fundamental. lower costs and time savings, which means, in the end, faster access to medicines for european patients. i hope that we will reach an agreement at first reading. everything was done to bring this to a conclusion and i thank the commission and the council again for their help. as regards counterfeiting, commissioner, we were very pleased to hear the indications and information you have already given us on what you will present to us, i hope, as soon as possible because you know that we are looking forward to it. counterfeiting - my colleagues have said this - is a crime and you cannot wait when it is a crime. we know that the vast majority of medicines sold on the internet are counterfeit medicines which are therefore dangerous to the health of our fellow citizens. so you spoke about the active ingredient and the control we must require on the active ingredient, including when it is manufactured, when it is produced in third countries, when it is not produced in the european union. yes, it is essential! we're going to be here to help you because we're going to have to work on traceability, on penalties for violators, on supply chain security. it's important that the patient has 100% confidence in the medication that they're prescribed. this medicinal product must not be opened, must not be repackaged, must not be 'repackaged'. that is what i wanted to say on behalf of all my colleagues. commissioner, you should know that you have the full support of parliament when you leave here and that it is absolutely necessary to convince the college of commissioners that we must not waste any more time and that we must finally work on this counterfeit medicine.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the necessary dust-up of a 14 year old directive which affects millions of people in europe - tourism professionals as consumers of timeshare or club holidays. with a turnover of over eur 2 billion per year and employing 200 000 people, this sector is an important driver of the internal market in the context of the lisbon strategy, especially as the forecasts indicate a rapid growth in this type of service. the economic logic, although not negligible, must not prevent the best possible protection of the many users of these services, who often have average holiday budgets and who need protection and greater legal clarity. the harmonisation of withdrawal conditions, as well as the prohibition of unfair commercial practices such as the payment of advances during the cooling-off period and the obligation to provide a precise, clear and legible contract in the language chosen by the buyer, thus constitute important progress in consumer protection and empowerment. the text will also put an end to unacceptable practices made possible by the shortcomings of the current directive and will restore credibility to a sector with a negative image. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr manders, and the fictitious rapporteurs, including my friend joel hasse ferreira, for their fruitful work which will lead to an agreement at first reading which maintains the many advances which parliament wanted but which the council refused to accept.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. mr president, i believe that in dealing with this crisis, this parliament has shown its sense of responsibility and it is in this spirit that the economic and monetary affairs committee met on monday evening to discuss the revision of the capital requirements directive, known as the 'crd', which is presented by the commission as one of the pillars of its response to the serious financial crisis in the european union. i would like to inform the house that the commission did not consider it appropriate to take part in the work of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on monday evening for this exchange of views.
in writing. i voted the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a council regulation amending the 2003 regulation as regards jurisdiction and establishing rules on the law applicable in matrimonial matters, on the basis of the report by my german colleague evelyne gebhardt. the increase in the mobility of citizens within the european union, which has led to an increase in the number of 'international' couples, i.e. couples in which the spouses are of different nationalities or reside in different member states or in a member state of which at least one of the spouses is not a national, and the high divorce rate in the european union, have made it necessary to legislate on the applicable law and on matrimonial jurisdiction, which affect an increasing number of citizens every year. it must be constantly recalled that the treaties provide for the progressive establishment of a common area of freedom, security and justice and for measures to 'promote the compatibility of the rules applicable in the member states in matters of conflict of laws and jurisdiction'.
in writing. i welcome the support given by parliament to the european pact on immigration and asylum in the vote on the resolution on the european council of 15 and 16 october, which i voted for. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the success of the overall framework for action is reinforced by the efforts of the french presidency to achieve rapid adoption of the proposals for directives currently under negotiation, thus translating these ambitious declarations into concrete actions. these include the directive on the single procedure and the common legal base, the so-called 'blue card' directive on the conditions of admission of highly qualified nationals and the directive on sanctions against employers who employ illegal nationals. this pact is fully in line with the european parliament's call for a genuine common immigration and asylum policy which respects fundamental rights and human dignity.
in writing. according to the internet watch foundation, a british organisation that works to prevent the possession, retention and distribution of child pornography, commercial sexual exploitation of children online is a fast-growing, low-risk and highly profitable industry. the internet pornography market is a notorious multibillion-dollar business. we can only support the commission and our colleague's efforts to put an end to this kind of activity, in particular by introducing a mechanism to block payments made by credit card or electronic payment when buying child pornography on the internet. unfortunately, there is a serious technical limit to all the national and european protection mechanisms currently being developed. indeed, the majority of commercial servers for these images are located not in europe, but in the united states, russia and asia. thus, their illegal content can be easily downloaded in one country and viewed in another. it is therefore understandable that effective measures to develop cyberpedophilia, while necessary, are difficult.
in writing. the report by mr andresson seeks to draw lessons from the scandalous judgments of the luxembourg court of justice, notably in the laval and viking cases. these judgments give priority to the free provision of services and the freedom of establishment of undertakings over the defence of the interests and rights of national workers against social dumping. they unacceptably subordinate the exercise of social rights to a 'principle of proportionality' which goes far beyond the legitimate restrictions (e.g. public order and health) recognised in national law and ilo conventions. they are a disguised re-establishment of the bolkenstein directive in its first version, the one where the law of the country of origin (social law, labour law, wage law, etc.) applied to the worker going to work in another member state, irrespective of the legislation or collective agreements in force in the latter. this version has been rejected by the european legislator and it is unacceptable that judges can pretend to be the authors of the law under the guise of interpreting it. even if he is sometimes well-meaning, mr andersson is too attached to the ultra-liberal principles which have led to this situation for his report to win the vote. that's why we're not going to vote.
in writing. the european union's goal of a social europe is a deception, the lisbon strategy a failure and the various magic potions devised by the europeans to improve living and working conditions are rendered ineffective by the simple fact that the real vision of brussels is ultra-liberal and in the service of globalism. on the one hand, we want to prevent social dumping in order to protect workers, whether they are posted or not, and thus to allow for the existence of a balanced internal market, and on the other hand, we want to do everything possible to open our economic frontiers a little more by means of massive immigration of labour and settlement. all this is just the perpetual illustration of a very european schizophrenia. to illustrate this, it is sufficient to note the references to the defunct lisbon treaty made repeatedly in this all-embracing report. it is therefore not clear how a clear vision can be achieved to strike a balance between the free movement of services and the rights of workers.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by jutta haug, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 (c6-0309/2008 - 2008/2026 ((bud)) and letter of amendment no 1/2009 to the preliminary draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section iii commission (sec ((2008) 2435)) (a6-0398/2008), and- the report by janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009 (section i, european parliamentsection ii, councilsection iv, court of justicesection v, court of auditorssection vi, european economic and social committeesection vii, committee of the regionssection viii, european ombudsmansection ix, european data protection supervisor - 2008-0310 (c6-0310/2008 ((bud)) (a6-039/2008).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, i would like to express my satisfaction, regret and hope. the commission is pleased that the committee on budgets has agreed to our proposal that supervisors, whether they be banking, insurance or securities, need more funding to be able to work together better. i think that is self-evident, and even those who are not members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs will accept this as an imperative. i have a regret. in the crisis we are experiencing today, the euro is our pillar, it is our foundation! the commission has cut drastically the communication channels around this marvel of the euro. i hope that tomorrow's plenary will realise that the capacity of the eurogroup, whatever level it meets at from now on, must be strengthened. it can't be a light structure like this, floating in the air. it's become a reality. i hope that this parliament will agree to vote tomorrow on the principle of increased resources for the eurogroup.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr representative of the presidency-in-office, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, and especially jutta haug and mr lewandowski, as well as the entire budget team, elected and administrative, for their traditional work in 2009. it is the third of the financial perspectives and it shows how the annual budgetary procedure has become a constrained and somewhat surreal exercise in the face of european reality. it is an accounting stunt that makes it impossible to provide a genuine community response to the problems of our society. after the commission's very modest proposal, the council has ritually sent us a narrow proposal which does not allow us to fulfil any of the promises it made during the year. and you are right, mr president, the european budget has been under-implemented since 1988. as in sport, regular training leads to better performance and as in the case of the athlete, the eu budget, as it decreases, becomes more inefficient and non-executive. it's the vicious circle that leads to political disaster. it is true that we must not spend too much, but as we keep on making promises, we enter commitment appropriations and do not enter payment appropriations. this is the beginning of a budget cavalry! it would be necessary to know whether the european union wants to achieve its objectives and whether the member states are prepared, or not, to contribute to common policies. in the face of this impossible task, parliament, through the work of our rapporteur, assumes its authority. the budgetary framework is very tight and the lack of initiative on the part of the commission has led the ep to create new pp and aps which will be the basis for future innovations. but finally, it is essential that, at the time when europe is deciding to inject 1 700 billion to help the banking sector in the euro zone, we should be able to find 250 million for 2009 for the food facility. parliament is very attached to this food aid fund. then, on november 21st, the ball will be in the council's court. parliament has complied with all the authorized procedures: compliance with the financial perspective, call for flexibility under the ceiling of eur 530 million and call for the emergency aid reserve in the financial perspective. we are acting within our prerogatives and therefore expect the council to adopt a responsible political attitude, similar to ours, which is essential if we are to give the european action credibility in the eyes of every citizen. mr president, i would like to make a call to you: to make policy is to anticipate; to anticipate is to make a decision. the position of parliament allows us to anticipate by respecting the rules to which the three institutions have chosen to conform. keep your promises!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our two colleagues on the committee on budgets - janusz lewandowski and, of course, jutta haug - for their passionate and efficient work. i would like to say very briefly, in the time i have, that i am glad that a number of guidelines have been preserved in a budget which is very restricted, or even narrow, as some of our colleagues have said. fundamental guidelines for growth for jobs and climate change have been preserved and there is even an increase in the total level of payments on these priorities, in any case. secondly, i am particularly pleased that the committee on budgets' proposal has made the lines on research and innovation and all the other aspects of the structural funds more clear, thus providing practical answers to our citizens. in this period of crisis, which is anxiety-inducing in its scale and effects and will unfortunately be long-lasting, i want to stress the importance of europe's coordinated response, which is not only more evident than ever, but is also indispensable for supporting investment in major infrastructure, in order to stimulate our european economy.
mr president, unfortunately we will not have the lisbon treaty in force next year, but we will still need regulation. no new treaty but new needs nonetheless. there are missions that don't wait for the institutional tempo. just look at the news: financial crisis, environmental crisis. we're gonna need some resources in our organization chart. 2009 is also a special year because we have an appointment with a very sensitive animal, the european citizen, the voter. so we must not skimp on the means of communication and consultation. here too, let us find the right means for our web-tv, the election campaign, the visitor centre, the citizen agoras, etc. in terms of buildings, we now own almost all of our buildings. i'm talking about the three main job sites. as for the one we do not yet have, luxembourg, we will be taking the first steps in the coming weeks. it's a very ambitious, large-scale project where we're going to build one of the largest buildings in the world, fully energy-autonomous. we can be proud of it, we can be proud of our heritage, but this room is a testament to it, a heritage it talks! so as a property owner, you're going to have to think about finding ways to have a quality legacy. on environmental policy, we were one of the first institutions to be emas certified in 2008, and we can be very proud of that. two days ago, we got the results of our carbon footprint study. this parliament spends 200,000 tonnes of co2 a year. if we are to meet and achieve the objectives of minus 30% in 12 years, we will need some means. i just want to end by applauding the quality of our friend lewandowski's work because in the new conciliation method we have put in place, we have been very, very lucky to have him as a pilot.
mr president, on the very day that the political declaration 'communicating europe in partnership' has just been signed by parliament, the commission and the council, thus marking their common desire to strengthen and harmonise information on the european union for citizens, we are debating the 2009 budget and the budget 'communication of the institutions'. in this election year and in a period of growing scepticism towards the union, raising citizens' awareness of european issues is essential. we hope that their participation in the vote will be very high. to this end, all initiatives aimed at explaining europe and its added value for everyday life and for preparing for the future are important. the future brussels visitor centre is one of them, but i am afraid that some amendments adopted in committees will delay the much awaited opening. on behalf of my group, i would like to reiterate our commitment to investing heavily in all communication activities with citizens and the media, particularly at local level. parliament and the commission must be encouraged in all policies that strengthen citizens' commitment to the european project.
mr president, they all lived in one of the most cosmopolitan cities in europe, sarajevo. sarajevo was then the symbol of an open bosnia, populated by muslims, serbs and croats. in the meantime, nationalisms have struck blindly, slaughtering men and women, indiscriminately destroying cultural symbols such as the rich library of sarajevo, a victim of man's madness. it was a long time ago, it was 16 years ago. if i may recall these dramatic events, it is to measure the distance travelled, to put the long journey towards this stabilisation and association agreement into perspective. so everyone should be happy about this situation. it is true that 2500 eurofor soldiers remain in this territory. the result of the municipal elections on 5 october, which were still guided by the fear of political domination by another community, reflected the domination of nationalist parties. but the gesture this afternoon reflects, on the part of the european parliament, confidence and a future in the easing of tensions, a cultural diversity that has been rediscovered, a willingness to welcome the peoples of this cultural diversity. it is this message of hope that we must remember today, because let us never forget the words of president mitterrand, spoken in this chamber: "nationalism is war".
madam president, from lenin's soviet russia to kim il-sung's north korea, today, mao's china, mengistu's ethiopia, pol pot's cambodia - and this list is, alas, not exhaustive - it can be said that hunger is the very essence of communism. however, the famine that killed nearly 10 million ukrainians in 1932 and 1933 was not just the result of the economic and social absurdity of communism, nor of its hatred of the peasantry. but it was planned by the soviet authorities, who on the one hand requisitioned all the peasants' food stocks, including seeds, and on the other hand used the police to prevent, by all means, the mass departures of ukrainians who were trying to escape death. this is what is happening in north korea today. article 6 of the statute of the international criminal court defines genocide as the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such and also, i quote, "the intentional subjection of the group to conditions which are to result in its physical destruction, in whole or in part". the extermination by famine - the holodomor - decided by the soviet communists in 1932 fits this definition, and mr markov is not pleased about it. on november 28, 2006, the ukrainian parliament officially declared the holodomor genocide. it is regrettable that the united nations, because of the russian veto and the cowardice of the french and british governments, refused to give it this status. it does not, moreover, call into question the honour of the russian people, who were also victims of communism, but it denounces the horror of this totalitarianism, which killed 200 million people in the world, and which we are denouncing today, it must be said, very belatedly.
madam president, we talking about this man-made famine now, 75 years after the events, because, if we do not talk about itnow,then it could become like the dark midnight of justice. it is still two hours to midnight now, but we are building the future. we cannot build that future on wobbly foundations. it has to be built on a solid foundation, and a solid foundation means the truth. the future cannot be built on lies, which would be like building it on sand. it does not really matter how many people died in the ukraine. what matters is that the victims of that man-made famine–the ukrainian populace –feel that justice is being done, because we have to restore people’s faith in justice. otherwise we cannot build a just society and they cannot believe in a future. all victims’ cries have to be heard, regardless of whether they are the victims of nazism, apartheid, slavery or communism. this house stands for the fundamental values of humanity. we cannot send out an ambiguous message. that is why we have to be truly unbiased, however painful that might be politically for us. otherwise we are not defending human dignity. it is very alarming that, in russia today, history is being rewritten, so how can we build a common future? it is a fitting time for us to discuss ukraine now, because at this very moment, in 2008, ukraine needs help. it needs hope for a better future, which means accession to the eu one day.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, a compromise has been reached between the council and our institution, which makes it possible to conclude this dossier at second reading. i welcome this agreement, which should in particular prevent the abuse of a dominant position and promote a balanced development of the european airport sector. this directive on airport charges is a real step forward: by introducing more transparency into the relations between airports and airlines, it will make it possible to improve and improve relations which are sometimes opaque and conflicting. the establishment of an independent authority will also make it possible to resolve any conflicts between the partners in an objective manner. the beneficiary of these new rules should ultimately be the air traveller and i welcome that. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i think we have not voted on the second part of the 106th. if you could check.
madam president, i would like to say that the draft resolution on piracy, in view of the growing threat of piracy at sea off the horn of africa, supports the member states' desire to take coordinated naval action. the amendments are, unfortunately, for the most part wishful thinking or a reminder of the obvious, such as the collapse into anarchy in somalia, from which we should, as is necessary, draw all the consequences. it is clear that the fight against piracy cannot be effectively fought unless the pirate bases are neutralized. it is also regrettable that this text does not mention the main cause of this return to piracy, which is the decline in europe's civilizing influence in this part of the world. finally, i think it is rather curious to ask that the naval forces of the member states should somehow decouple the action to combat piracy from the actions being carried out, for some reason, in the context of operation enduring freedom, as if bin laden were somehow escaping from afghanistan via pakistan by canoe to new zealand. i understand that there is a distinction to be made, but the ships that are there will naturally have to do both.
madam president, we commemorated the holodomor, the systematic destruction of the ukrainian peasantry by famine, and our parliament has recognized, as our colleague has just done, that this was genocide. i would just like to point out here that the perpetrators of this genocide sat among the judges of civilization at nuremberg, which should allow us today to discuss the composition, the procedure and the conclusions of the nuremberg trials. but the intellectuals who do this in europe today are arrested, detained, persecuted, ruined, prosecuted, thrown into prison - and worse, their lawyers, who also come to the same conclusions, are persecuted in the same way. in mr poettering's country, for example, they are prosecuted and arrested in procedures reminiscent of the stalinist trials. we have given the sakharov prize for freedom of expression to a chinese dissident, and we could have just as easily given it to some europeans, such as the courageous german lawyer, sylvia stolz.
in writing. having a european budget of around €130 billion for 27 countries, the equivalent of spain's budget alone, is, in normal times, already a curiosity. but now, in a europe where there is a shortage of high-speed trains from finland to spain or from france to poland, as well as of equipment and staff for the universities, research centres and retirement homes of a continent overwhelmed by the tsunami of old age, the global crisis of interbank liquidity, the property shock in several economies and the decline in the confidence of entrepreneurs and workers are demanding a budgetary effort without any measure with the usual european budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a continental loan, equivalent to the €1.7 trillion raised for the banking sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my german colleague jutta haug on the draft general budget of the union for 2009 and letter of amendment no 1/2009 to the preliminary draft general budget (pdb) of the european union. like many colleagues, i regret that the council has reduced an already meagre budget further: the commitment appropriations in the draft budget total eur 134 billion, i.e. eur 469 million less than gnp, while payments are eur 115 billion, down by eur 1.8 billion, amounting to 0.89% of gni, an unprecedented level and drastically widening the gap between commitments and payments, which is contrary to budgetary discipline. on the agricultural side, i support the creation of three new funds (the milk restructuring fund, the eu eco-aid fund for sheep and goat farming and the financial instrument for the adaptation of the fishing fleet to the economic consequences of the increase in fuel prices.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the 2009 budget of the european union on thursday 23 october in first reading. the budget is part of the special context of the narrowed financial perspectives for 2007-2013 - which the french socialists had refused to vote on in 2006 - the financial crisis and the preparations for the european elections in june 2009. a budget is a political statement of numbers! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. i am pleased that we have restored a satisfactory level of appropriations for communication actions to the public and the media. to prepare for the next elections and to make citizens want to vote, it is essential to raise their awareness of european issues. all initiatives by the commission and parliament to explain europe and its added value for everyday life and preparation for the future must be encouraged and adequately funded.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the sections of the budget of the european union, except the budget of the european commission, on the basis of the report by my polish colleague janusz lewandowski. while the budgets covered by this report do not appear to pose any major problem, i remain convinced that the european parliament is not equipped to meet the political responsibilities it has acquired as a result of the evolution of the treaties and the activity of its members, and, moreover, its role in reducing the gap between the european construction and the peoples, which has been regularly confirmed by the various recent referendums. like the vast majority of my colleagues, i support the proposed strengthening of the audit capacity of the european court of auditors with the creation of 20 posts. the costs of financing the extension of the court building must be kept as low as possible for the taxpayer and it is a good suggestion to finance these costs directly from the budget over 4 years, instead of covering the substantially higher costs that would result from a 25 year lease-purchase formula.
in writing. our assembly finally recognises the horror of the extermination by famine, the holodomor, in ukraine, caused by the soviet regime. it is regrettable, however, that it has not, like the ukrainian parliament, given the qualification of genocide to this mass crime. the famine that killed millions of ukrainians in 1932 and 1933 was not only the result of the economic and social absurdity of communism but was the result of a plan of extermination that met the definition of genocide, that is, "the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such", and also "the intentional subjecting of the group to conditions that would result in its total or partial physical destruction". at a time when in france in particular a certain extreme left communist group is receiving support from the media, the recognition of such a genocide would be a reminder of the horror of marxism-leninism, which has been responsible for the death of 200 million people since the bolshevik revolution of 1917 and which today still oppresses more than one and a half billion people in cuba, north korea, vietnam and especially in china, where the most savage capitalism marries very well with communist totalitarianism.
the agenda calls for the debate on three motions for resolutions on venezuela.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is following the situation in venezuela with great interest. the country is in the process of preparing for the regional and local elections which will take place on 23 november. it is worth noting that in the last few years several democratic electoral processes have taken place in venezuela. some of them have been monitored by european observation missions which concluded that, in general, they complied with international standards and national legislation. others have not, as was the case with the last referendum, since we were not invited. the commission is aware of the concerns expressed by some of you and also many sectors of venezuelan society about the constitutionality of the ‘disqualifications’. these are believed by some to be intended to obstruct the full participation of the opposition in the november elections. the commission has taken note of the explanation provided on several occasions by the venezuelan authorities, in relation to the constitutionality of these ‘administrative sanctions’ imposed by the state controller on a number of civil servants. we stress the importance of guaranteeing the rights of all citizens who want to participate in the elections, in accordance with the constitution and the rule of law. we hope that the upcoming elections will strengthen democracy in venezuela and that the results will reflect the views of the whole of venezuelan society. we encourage all actors to engage in the electoral process in a spirit of tolerance, civic-mindedness and respect for pluralism of opinions. the commission is also aware of the expulsion of the representatives of human rights watchfrom venezuela. we have heard the voices which have condemned this decision as a measure which adversely affects the right to freedom of expression and an act demonstrating an intolerant attitude towards criticism. in this context, we stress the importance that the eu attaches to freedom of expression and opinion. freedom of expression is one of the fundamental human rights, and constitutes the cornerstone of democracy and the rule of law. i wish to assure parliament that the commission will continue to follow closely the developments in venezuela. the commission’s commitments to supporting development of democracy and the promotion of human rights will continue to be reflected in our cooperation policies and relations with venezuela.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after our debates this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the democratic republic of congo: clashes in the eastern border areas.
member of the commission.− mr president, the commissionshares the concerns about the degraded situation in the eastern democratic republic of congo, which is causing further stress to an already seriously affected population. it is also particularly worried about the widespread human rights violations in the region, including violence against women and the continuous mobilisation of child soldiers in the conflict. the commission restates its conviction that the current crisis involving kinshasa and the congolese rebel groups has no military solution. hence, we encourage all parties to this conflict to rapidly resume dialogue and promote courageous political compromises, taking into consideration the commitments agreed upon in january2008, the so-called actes d’engagement de goma. in this context, it is extremely important to restore acceptable confidence levels amongst all congolese stakeholders directly involved. as a preliminary step, all parties without exception should abide without delay by an effective ceasefire with a view to implementing the military disengagement plan provided by the united nations. in addition, it must be borne in mind that the underlying root causes of the conflict also include the dramatic problems posed by foreign armed groups in democratic republic of congoterritory, in particular the rwandan fdlr, an issue where most of the drc commitments taken in the nairobi communiqué have still to be put into action. given the multiple challenges which still lie ahead in the democratic republic of congo, the commission strongly advocates that the un’s peacekeeping mission mandate should be renewed and, where possible, strengthened in order to ensure effective protection for the population and support to the congolese army in tackling the foreign armed groups. in addition to the relentless efforts of the eu facilitation team, it is important to ensure the broader participation of african diplomacy (including the african union) in the resolution of the eastern drc conflicts, especially in areas where a sustainable solution would be greatly facilitated by close cooperation between neighbouring countries, in particular the democratic republic of congo and rwanda. as regards our support to the population in conflict-affected areas, the commission will continue to provide support via both our humanitarian and development cooperation. more specifically, regarding health services (an issue raised by all the resolutions), it is important to stress that the commission has been active since 1994 in the health sector in the democratic republic of congo, which is today one of the focal sectors of our cooperation. in addition to humanitarian aid, we are currently providing strategic and financial support to the congolese authorities to improve the quality of medical services and the qualifications of medical staff.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after our debates this afternoon.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on burma.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by reminding you that the commission’s response to the cyclone last may was quick and substantial. we provided humanitarian and food aid and worked through the civil protection mechanism in cooperation with the eu member states. we are pleased with asean’s active role in coordinating international efforts. the commission funded the largest part of the needs assessment undertaken jointly by asean, the united nations and the government. the humanitarian emergency is not over, but we will now also look at rehabilitation issues. most remarkable during this period has been the outpouring of solidarity among citizens, local ngos and the myanmar red cross. this is a clear signal that giving up on civil society is not an option. the problems that need to be addressed are the following: firstly, we must reduce the isolation of the burmese people. civil society needs strengthening. the commission is co-hosting a conference on the role of civil society in myanmar in brussels, which will take place on 29october. secondly, we must keep open all possible channels of communication with the government. at the asem summit, which will take place in beijing on 26october, president barroso is expected to take the floor. in addition, the commission has established working relations with line ministries in matters of health, education and livelihoods. thirdly, we must keep and strengthen the united nations as a driving force. there is no alternative to the good offices of the un secretary-general and the un special adviser, ibrahim gambari. the commission strongly backs the efforts of the un special rapporteur on human rights in myanmar, mr tomás ojea quintana. national reconciliation also requires an inclusive dialogue. it cannot take place with political stakeholders in jail or under house arrest. we continue to request the release of all those being detained on political grounds. the commission also backs the ilo efforts to end forced-labour practices used for military and infrastructural programmes. the commission is using all its channels to express concerns regarding forced labour and non-respect for fundamental freedoms. the people of myanmar deserve our attention and assistance, and the commission will continue to do everything in its power.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i'm the reporter. - mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, i think this is an important moment and the subject we are going to discuss today concerns all europeans first and foremost. i believe, and everyone is now convinced, that the euro is our greatest asset, our best investment. today is an opportunity to take stock, but through a review in times of crisis, of course, we must find ways to bounce back. what would be our situation without the euro? without the euro, iceland would be much like ireland today, or rather ireland would look like iceland. we have reopened the debate in this crisis because everyone has understood how central this euro is to our ability to resist in ordinary times and also in times of crisis. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your sense of anticipation, because when you tabled this document in may 2008, no one here could have imagined how useful, necessary and indispensable it would be as a basis for looking to the future and, on the basis of the euro's solidity, for facing the crisis that lies ahead. i understand that in your discussions with the ministers of economy and finance, their minds suddenly turned to other matters, to matters they had not been looking at: the financial markets. you have to remind them that if they want to get out of the crisis situation we are in tomorrow, they will not escape two things. they will have to balance economic and monetary union. we've seen it in dealing with the financial market crisis. we see it today in dealing with the real economic crisis that is ahead of us. monetary policy can do a lot, by injecting liquidity, to make markets work easier, by lowering rates, to try to boost investment. but that's it! it is then up to governments to act to save the banks, to chase away toxic products and tomorrow, to revive economic activity in the european union. it is time for the ministers for economic affairs and finance to make use of the treaty, which tells them to regard their economic policy as a policy of common interest. on this basis, commissioner, re-launch the debate at ecofin, demand the road map you have suggested to them and come back to us on the basis of the proposals, our proposals, which you have defended so that tomorrow the euro really serves growth and employment. on monetary policy, of course, we respect the independence of the central bank, but we also respect the treaty in all its dimensions, and article 105, beyond price stability, requires the central bank to pursue the other objectives of the union, do i need to remind you of that? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. is it not necessary, it is not in our report, but is it not necessary to open a debate on the introduction of a financial market stability objective in monetary policy objectives? i'm asking the question. of course, we will not make progress in the functioning of economic and monetary union unless we take greater account of the link between the real economy and financial markets. for forgetting it, we are paying the price today. on enlargement, this crisis reopens the conditions for debate, and yet i believe we must remain rigorous. reform before joining the euro area is easier than reform after joining the euro area, even if it is extremely demanding. and you, commissioner, have made it a central point of your report, the idea that the divergences that have emerged in the functioning of the euro area are a source of concern. they're bigger than we originally thought. so we ask you, the european parliament asks you to provide the european union with tools to monitor the quality of public spending to see how the member states react, and not just a debate on thresholds, which only allows for a global debate and not a debate on the quality of public spending, which is the responsibility of the ministers of economy and finance. in the road map we are proposing to you, we also think, commissioner, that you should address the member states today and ask them to review their copy. their national reform plans do not take account of the latest forecasts you have put on the table. if we are serious about the joint exercise of economic policy coordination, these copies must now be revised on the basis of the growth forecasts you have put on the table and which have been reinforced and confirmed by both the imf and the oecd. finally, among the proposals we are making, i would draw your attention to the issues in terms of the external representation of the euro area. we have lived in a passive attitude for too long. the euro was our protection. but more than protecting us, it must now enable us to be a strong voice on the international stage so that we are not merely the floating link in a debate between the other major monetary powers. we are a major monetary power, and we must bear all the consequences, and this too is a matter for consistent, concerted debate in the council of ministers. we are quite prepared, as the european parliament, to play our part in this exercise, as you know.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr juncker, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate my colleagues pervenche beres and bernard langen on the quality of their report and to thank them for having adopted the amendments proposed by the committee on international trade. ten years after its creation, emu must be seen as a european success of which we can be proud. no one can dispute - and many studies have shown - that there is a link between monetary policy and trade policy, and that in this respect the positive role of monetary stability is necessary for sustainable growth in international trade. the increasing use of the euro as an international currency benefits the euro area member states as it allows european businesses to reduce exchange rate risk and improve their international competitiveness. but if the european central bank, by giving priority to price stability, has strengthened confidence in the euro, no one can seriously deny that inflation is a global reality and that the fight against this global phenomenon cannot, in an open economy, be carried out with european monetary policy alone. it is clear that the euro exchange rates have been too high for too long and have had negative effects, in particular by weighing on exports and favouring imports within the internal market. many industrialists have expressed their concern about this. according to a study we commissioned in the committee on international trade, the ecb's high interest rate policy has cost us 0.5 percentage points of growth per year in recent years. i regret that the commission has not carried out a more precise analysis of the international role of the euro and its impact on the internal market in international trade. the monetary policies pursued by some of the european union's partners with the aim of undervaluing their currencies are unfairly affecting trade. they could be considered as a non-tariff barrier to international trade. it is in this context that we propose to study the feasibility of a body for the settlement of monetary disputes on the model of what the states have succeeded in creating in trade matters at the world trade organization. this body, which is attached to the imf, could help to stabilise the global monetary system, reduce the risk of abuse and restore the confidence needed by world markets. i support the commission's proposal to develop common european monetary positions, eventually securing a single seat for the euro area in international financial institutions and forums. finally, i regret that the report does not include the idea of an economic government. this is not, mr juncker, a question of sincerity; it is a question of the quality of the work. it is a political proposal for the organization of our community instruments. in the past, governments have settled major planetary conflicts through military wars. today we are in an economic and social war, but instead of deaths we have unemployment, and we are not quite sure who the enemy is. in this context, let us not be naive and work tirelessly to establish european economic and social governance, which is a necessary condition - if not sufficient - for the success of a european social market economy.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate, i think it is a good contribution by the european parliament to what we expect you to put into practice now, commissioner, mr president of the eurogroup, through a road map. mr juncker, you said: 'but let the groups agree!' well, the groups will agree: tomorrow they will vote on paragraph 61 (d) and paragraph 61 (g), in which they ask exactly what you are asking them to do. so, please, take this as a basis for your discussions with the ministers of economy and finance tomorrow. you said, "there is no report on the divergence". there may not be a very precise report, but one thing is certain: the convergence of economic situations within the euro area, which we expected, has not taken place and mrs elisa ferreira has given you a concrete example of this. on the contradictions between the member states, mr president of the eurogroup, i can only agree with you. i don't like people who ask for coordination when it suits them and who refuse coordination and plead for national sovereignty when it suits them. the questions of coordination of economic policies are matters of common interest and the situation we are in today is unacceptable: on the american side we have already been able to implement two paulson plans, while in europe you tell us that it will take a few more weeks before we have something to say to the european citizens who are waiting for our answers. everyone must be involved and the commission now has the means to make progress on the basis of the european parliament's proposals. i hope we will be heard and supported.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, my colleagues have already given some examples. i would like to take up a few of them to introduce this subject, since we have to deal with natural disasters. who remembers, just a century ago, in 1908, messina, where there were 100,000 dead. we all remember, of course, chernobyl, but if we look at the last decade, we see the storms and shipwrecks of 1999, the floods in central europe mentioned earlier, not to mention new york, september 11, the terrorist attacks of march 2004, and chikungunya, the problematic disease, and so on. madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what the next disaster will be and how big it will be, but we are certain that there will soon be another disaster. and at that moment our fellow citizens, who have been accustomed for 50 years to seeing a europe built up with a desire for solidarity, and a number of reports we are voting on this week are proof of this, will ask us the same question as in the present financial crisis: what have you done? some of you may have heard in recent weeks the former head of the international monetary fund explain in a previous report three or four years ago: 'we said at the imf level that the crisis was going to happen and we explained how to avoid the crisis!' so, commissioner, you have come here tonight to listen to us, and we hope that you can hear us and make sure that, unlike what is happening with the current financial crisis, well, europe will not be left behind by a disaster. i would like to make a twofold proposal. first, a proposal on how to proceed. you said so in your last remarks, madam commissioner, you referred to the michel barnier report. we cannot have two separate actions, when you yourself, like all of us, especially in the committee on regional development, keep repeating that we need integrated approaches. we cannot have the development of the solidarity fund on the one hand and a policy of prevention on the other. the two must be linked, particularly to convince those famous finance ministers who explain to us that perhaps if we adapt the criteria of the solidarity fund - and you have spoken about this - it would cost more. let them be inspired by the barnier report and they will understand that if, at the same time, we pursue a prevention policy with the pooling of the means of action, the pooling of the prevention of accidents and natural disasters, then we will make money. so, it's not just about making money, preventing disaster, but, oh, how much, saving lives. that is why, commissioner, i urge you, together with all my colleagues, to do everything possible so that at the end of the french presidency and during the czech presidency you can get the swedish presidency to actually not only study the action plan, but to launch it. we're counting on your determination. we need it. you know that parliament - and tonight it is expressing it loud and clear - is with you. we are now waiting for results for a year, without fail.
in writing. parliament and the commission reached an agreement more than two years ago to extend the scope of the solidarity fund to cover natural disasters, but also industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and major public health crises. the agreement states that special attention will be paid to the ors even if they do not fully meet the eligibility criteria, so that they can receive emergency aid in the event of an emergency. however, this reform has not yet entered into force, as the council has not been able to reach a decision and has been putting off adopting a common position ever further. although the fund has recently been mobilised for réunion following cyclone gamède and for martinique and guadeloupe, victims of cyclone dean, the admissibility of each application is still uncertain in the absence of a rapid council decision on this reform. the commission should also review its proposals to strengthen the union's civil protection capacity, to exploit the expertise and geographical location of the octs and the overseas departments which wish to be focal points in the event of intervention outside europe. on both these issues, the seafarers expect an ambitious eu response to guarantee their safety.
president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. madam president, we shall have this discussion tonight, if the house will accept the urgency of this matter. it is a matter of amending european regulations which allow us to grant balance of payments facilities to countries outside the euro area. as we all know, the hungarian question is the subject of today's news, but unfortunately i think we must look to the future and therefore strengthen this facility of support from the european union to its member states, including those outside the euro area. i therefore ask the house to accept this urgency.
on behalf of the pse group. madam commissioner, mr minister, mr rapporteur, i would therefore like to make a statement and, as mr goebbels said, two minutes on such an important report is not enough! what i'd like to say is quite simple. first of all, we must defend the balance of the report proposed today by mr capoulas santos. it was necessary to develop the common agricultural policy, which is the subject of the health check, but at the same time it was also necessary to preserve its unity at european level while allowing it to continue to be a policy which sets objectives for agriculture throughout the european territory. this is the balance i want to defend here, by giving four examples. the debate on milk quotas is ongoing and, frankly, the position that has been taken seems to me to be the right one. let's be careful about that. all those who want to go fast by increasing production quantities, by removing market mechanisms, are taking the considerable risks of seeing the price of milk fall and then seeing extremely heavy restructuring. the decoupling of aid: here too we have found a position which seems to me to be balanced. total decoupling is a risk for many productions. we must defend the diversified production in europe: sheep, cattle, goats and small-scale crops. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's what's in this report, and it seems very important to me. finally, on the overall development of aid and the way in which it is being dealt with, i would like to say that, through the modulation, the capping, of article 68, there are important things that have been done; they are going in the right direction, but on one condition: that our agriculture changes its overall production model towards sustainability. the preservation of an exploitation model, whether individual or collective, which takes account of three objectives: economic, ecological and social, must be borne in mind.
mr president, commissioner, minister, during the last three days of the european development days, there has been a lot of talk about the food crisis which is seriously affecting the poorest countries, and all the speeches have stressed the absolute need for developing countries to develop their own agriculture by making the best use of their land and natural resources. the lyrical outbursts of those who yesterday and today called for a reduction in state intervention and public spending, for full liberalization, for privatization and the relegation of agriculture as a quasi-prehistoric activity, this turn in favour of massive public investment in agricultural production and food sovereignty, all of this was both ridiculous and scandalous. the future of agriculture in developing countries is directly related to the debate we are having today. i regret to say that i do not feel that this review of the cap's health, which was initiated before the peak of the hunger riots and the disastrous disruption of the markets, takes account of the situation of the peasantry in the south and draws all the consequences of the serious crises we are experiencing today: ecological, social, economic and financial. i therefore deeply regret that the strong link between northern and southern agriculture is so little addressed, both in the commission's proposals and in parliament's report, and the challenge to the promised billion euro shows how far the road is still to go.
mr president, at the beginning of the 2000s we set the financial framework for the cap until 2013. farmers have made investments on the basis of these figures. now, in the middle of a campaign, would we decide to reduce the payments they are entitled to expect? it's not fair. it's not fair. i am against the modulation advocated by the european commission or the capoulas santos report. the cap's purpose is to support and structure agriculture. for example, we see a general decline in livestock production in favour of sheep imports from third countries. farmers need a cap that supports them. so we need sheep subsidies, environmental premiums for the maintenance of grasslands and national reserves to deal with the ravages caused by animal diseases, including catarrhal fever. mr minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, farmers are counting on us!
mr president, the report we are voting on tomorrow marks the culmination of a year of work and negotiations on the future of the common agricultural policy and our farmers. it was on 20 november that mrs fischer boel came to us with her proposals on the health check. after the progress report by lutz goepel, here is the report by capoulas santos on the commission proposal. both our colleagues deserve a commendation for their excellent work. the european parliament's committee on agriculture was able to stand firm in the face of the commission's departure proposals, which we considered far too liberal. i will remain vigilant with regard to the milk sector and in particular the measures prior to the abolition of quotas. i am thinking in particular of the mountain milk producers who must not be the poor parents of this reform, and we must be very careful not to leave them out of the picture because they will need more support than the others. i do not want to be a cassandra, but how can we imagine the french dairy industry being grouped together in one single region? i therefore welcome the proposal to set up a 'milk fund' and to assess, as from 2010, the increase in milk quotas in the light of market developments. the calculation of the progressive modulation made by the committee on agriculture seems to me to be correct and would allow us to strengthen the development of the territories, the countryside and to preserve biodiversity in a sustainable way. i also welcome the clarification of cross-compliance, the implementation of which has been a real headache for farmers up to now. i also hope that we will retain the amount of the tobacco fund, which enables us to maintain our small farms in europe and a considerable workforce in a region where nothing else is exploitable and which enables us to avoid imported products. finally, mr minister, we have greatly appreciated your commitment throughout these negotiations. you have shown a great deal of patience and determination and you have not counted your time, far from it. it's been a real pleasure working with you. you've been very effective with us. i know we can count on you.
mr president, thank you for the work done and the conclusions and guidelines proposed by the cap health check and by the report by mr capoulos santos. agriculture is indeed an economic sector which cannot respond to simple market signals. its activities have an impact, of course, on food self-sufficiency but also, as we too often see, on territories and employment. the abolition of market instruments would be a serious blow to our agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis. furthermore, it is clear that strict adherence to historical references would put a huge brake on any possibility of reform. however, i still believe that the question of the second pillar of the cap is a key issue because rural areas need to rely on agricultural activity to develop rural employment. so we have to think about this second pillar problem without, of course, amputating the first.
in writing. i would first like to commend the remarkable work of our rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, whose constant concern has been to seek a balanced and stable compromise which would allow the european parliament to speak with one voice in the face of a divided and uncertain council. the 'health check' on which we are going to vote today is a great opportunity to reflect on the way in which the common agricultural policy can be brought out of its present predicament and to anticipate the enormous work of re-founding this policy after 2013. the cap is in need of a new breath, and in particular of a new social and environmental breath. i am therefore pleased that we have succeeded in correcting the european commission's text in the direction of greater social sensitivity, in particular by proposing to increase aid to small farmers and to introduce the labour and employment factors in the rules for granting aid. i regret, however, and this is the only point i will make, that economic and social criteria are not accompanied by ecological considerations, because 'sustainability' must become the hallmark of our agricultural policy.
mr president, my request is based on rule 168 of our rules of procedure. i have been a member of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities for ten years. i have read carefully the report by our colleague mr lehne and i must tell you - and i would say whatever the political colour of the member in question - that i am astonished that there is such a departure from the commission's consistent case law, which was to maintain the parliamentary immunity of the member prosecuted for political reasons. mr vanhecke was prosecuted as the editor of the publication. he is being prosecuted because of an article whose author is known and, according to belgian law, as the report acknowledges, in this case the editor of the publication should not be prosecuted. moreover, the prosecution is based on the fact that the foreign identity of grave robbers was revealed. it was the initiative of belgian socialist cadets. it is obvious, and this is the last point, mr president, ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the committee on legal affairs and the members of the political groups in the plenary today have once again shown how little importance they attach to impartiality and respect for the law in the face of their obsession to eliminate all those who do not belong to their large family of euro-federalists. my colleague frank vanhecke is the subject of a veritable witchcraft trial in belgium with the sole purpose of convicting him and forcing him to leave the political scene. the european parliament has forgotten that, when a request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is initiated by a state, the rules on the protection of members of parliament, as laid down in its rules of procedure, must be fully applied. like bruno gollnisch, whose parliamentary immunity was withdrawn for purely political reasons in 2006, frank vanhecke is also the victim of what constitutes a genuine course of action, by transforming a legal case into a political case. this is unacceptable for an institution which falsely boasts of being democratic!
in writing. on 13 october 1981, in the french national assembly, andré laignel, a socialist mp, gave his famous reply to the opposition mps, arguing against the constitutionality of the nationalisations desired by the government: "your debate switches from legal to political. it's [your] right. but in this case you are legally wrong, since you are politically in the minority". the european parliament has clearly adopted this phrase when it comes to eliminating all those who dare to disturb it with their political views which are not considered sufficiently federalist or europeanist to its liking. my colleague, frank vanhecke, is the subject of a real witch hunt in this european parliament, from which he was legitimately elected. this institution has been misled and disgraced by accepting the unacceptable: the lynching of one of its members in defiance of all legal principles and legal protections relating to parliamentary immunities currently in force.
in writing. like many texts in this assembly, ms iotova's report is an example of a seemingly good idea with a misleading title. a superficial reading might suggest that this is about protecting consumers by informing them of their rights and educating them about financial services, in short, making them responsible and informed interlocutors of their bank. in reality, it is a question of making them from an early age (from primary school, it seems) perfect little customers of a financial system eager for their savings but stingy with its loans, of accepting as normal any financial product that pseudo-initiates call complex and which, for the most part, are simply aberrant, of doing their accounts wisely and preparing their retirement (with banks!) even if they also contribute to compulsory public systems ... at a time when the world financial system has just shown its perversity, when banks are reluctant to grant loans to companies and individuals despite the hundreds of billions of public aid released, when workers and smes are paying the price of a financial madness that is still current and when the "big" of the planet pretend to commit reforms to make the system last longer, the least we can say is that this report does not convince us.
in writing. the 'overall positive' assessment of the 10 years of economic and monetary union by the rapporteurs does not seem to be entirely objective, to say the least. unsurprisingly, the few problems identified are analysed as being the fault of the states and a lack of european integration. the truth is that the introduction of the euro has mechanically led to the explosion of prices of everyday consumer goods and the decline in the purchasing power of workers. the truth is that the stability pact is a fiscal and social malthusianism. the truth is that the absence of an exchange rate policy and the overvaluation of the euro have undermined the international competitiveness of the euro area. the truth is that a single monetary policy, a single policy interest rate for 11 or 15 economies of very different structures and levels of development are necessarily unsuitable for the needs of each of these economies as well as for the needs of the whole. the euro has failed to bring the prosperity promised to its members, most of whom are now in recession. because the euro, in its design and functioning, is not an economic tool. it is above all a powerful political tool for destroying the independence of nations.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and financial crisis is not, as some people say, the defeat of capitalism, but the result of a political error, namely the lack of rules and controls on the quality of financial products across the atlantic since the 1990s. it is the result of a lack of transparency in the markets and the absence of an effective financial market supervisory body. the centre-right political family is not and has never been in favour of an unregulated and arbitrary financial system, the economic and social consequences of which we are now paying dearly for. what we on the centre-right take to be the world economy is the european model of a social market economy which has proved its worth. what we on the centre-right are asking for is that in these difficult times our attention should be given first and foremost to the situation of the people who work, who save, and to that of entrepreneurs and, in particular, small and mediumsized enterprises, who take risks every day to create growth and jobs. we will only guarantee their future if we defend our model of society and if we ensure the conditions for a free, fair and transparent market, conscious of our responsibilities and true to our values. ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to express the great satisfaction of my group in this parliament: in this crisis, as in that of georgia this summer, europe, when it wants to, exists in the world, it makes itself heard and influences its partners. i am saying that europe, which is the bearer of a project for a society unique in the world and which puts man at the heart of the project for that society, is a vital tool in the context of globalisation. the presidency of the council with nicolas sarkozy, supported by the commission and its president josé manuel barroso, have shown that a common and coherent approach of the 27 member states can exist even on very sensitive and complex subjects and that europe can have a say in the world if it makes the effort of the union. it was thanks to the repeated requests of the presidency of the council and the commission that the g20 meeting was made possible. this meeting of the richest countries and emerging economic powers was a symbolic but historic event, but it also led to concrete measures which our group strongly supports. the g20 has identified the causes of the problem, defined a strategy and set a timetable. the grieving minds say it's not enough and it's too late. i ask myself: why have we in europe not anticipated the crisis better, since we already had signs of it last year? why have our supervisory authorities not also checked the quality of american financial products? we cannot spare an answer to the question of what happened in our big banks, where the top floor was unaware of what was happening on the third floor with our game-boys. we must now act to revive our economy, to revive growth and thus to limit the impact of this crisis on social cohesion. we must make the internal market more fluid, invest in research, give our smes a lot of support and help families in difficulty. we must do all this without burdening public finances, for example by considering eurobonds as a complementary source of financing and by maintaining the reforms undertaken at national level, which are more necessary than ever. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, faced with a historic crisis, global governance has made a breakthrough, potentially also a breakthrough. we must go further, while guarding against the danger of protectionism, which is always to the detriment of the poorest countries in the world. it is in times of crisis that one can take courageous steps for the future. mr president of the commission, it is in times of crisis that we can change certain rules and only in times of crisis because after a crisis everyone forgets very quickly. europe must not turn away from this path; the european union has shown that it is capable of finding answers to crises and of helping our fellow citizens to overcome this crisis, which will still pose enormous problems for us in the months ahead. i will simply say that europe must be united, europe must be strong, and above all, mr president of the commission, that we have felt the symbiosis between the various institutions, the parliament which i would mention first, the commission and the council. that is how we will succeed and set an example for our fellow citizens.
madam president, it is indeed the task of the european commission to ensure transparency, better information and protection of citizens and consumers. you are right, mr barroso. and there is one area in which your commission, mr barrroso, has particularly failed, and that is the authorization procedures for gmos. this procedure is criticized from all sides. it was to be reviewed at the next council of environment ministers on 4 and 5 november. there are 44 regions in europe that have declared themselves gmo-free. six member states have activated the safeguard clause on monsanto maize. a large majority of europeans are against it, and what are you doing, mr barroso? you're speeding up the marketing authorizations. you are giving these authorizations in strict compliance with the advice of the european food safety authority, which is based on toxicity studies carried out by biotechnology companies. the european procedure, as it stands today, is a real sieve through which the commercial interests of agribusiness are being sucked. the citizens want and need to know how toxic gmos are. do you know that yourself, mr barroso? you know that? what is the health and environmental toxicity of gmos? why not require the publication of the raw results of the studies, why not require tests beyond three months? why should we be satisfied with studies carried out by the firms themselves? citizens have the right to transparency, information, debate. that is what the commission must commit itself to when it comes to the authorization of gmos. we want, mr barroso, public raw data, we want contradictory studies, we want public debate, we want tests over the long term. we want to know what the health impact of gmos is. your initiative, mr barroso, to create a group of sherpas from 27 member states bypassing an ad hoc working group of the presidency, bypassing your own commissioners in charge of this matter, adds confusion and opacity where your responsibility is to ensure clarity and reliability of procedures. you want the citizens to have confidence in europe, mr barroso? try it!
madam president, i am struck - and i do not think i am alone - by the discrepancy between the most obvious facts of the day and what i hear here, particularly from the mouths of the representatives of the council and the commission, but also from the mouths of my fellow meps. this is a reminder of the pleasant and satisfying conversations of the byzantine hierarchy as their world was falling apart. we are not dealing with a mere crisis, a very trivial word for a recession, but with a fundamental reversal of the very foundations of the globalization that has so marked the 20th century. i don't think this is a credit crunch. it's a crisis of belief, it's a crisis of your belief, and i urge you to have the courage to see things in their true dimensions. i do not have time to enumerate these creeds, but the liberalization of credit, these scaffolding of credit, are obviously the consequence of a blind faith in the invisible hand and perhaps even in automatic progress. the answer, of course, is state control of credit. nor will free trade, the acceleration of free trade, be the solution. on the contrary, it is a return to the protection of frontiers, and the peoples know this very well. it is not the confiscation of politics for the benefit of superstructures like these - the failure of the lisbon treaty should be a warning to you - but the return to the real legitimate authority, that is to say, the sovereign states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2009 there will of course be european elections. in 2009, we will see a renewal of the commission. in 2009, of course, there will be changes in presidencies. but all of this is of relative importance. life goes on and our citizens expect our institutions to respond to their concerns, always looking ahead, with long-term objectives and the ability to implement them immediately. with this in mind, i would like to highlight two key actions in 2009. the first - and this was said by all the speakers - is the responses to the financial crisis. i have noted, and we all have noted, the satisfaction that the commission and the presidency have shown each other. i would venture to say, commissioner, that we can be happy to have scored a goal, but the game is not over. so if i may make an invitation, it is that the presidency and the council turn the turbo, that they strike the iron when it is hot so that within the 27 member states we can find quickly good answers to the financial crisis. but as is often said, one crisis always leads to another, and if we are to avoid being caught off guard by the next crisis, the 2009 programme, as president barroso seemed to indicate, must be able to meet the challenges ahead. as mrs wallis has said, this is why we in the alde group are making a number of proposals. some of my colleagues will be reviewing some of the proposals. i would like to stress one of the points which i think is essential and which we want to emphasize, namely that in 2009 your commission should give a great deal of attention to the structural funds, which currently account for 36% of our budget and which will enable us to act much more effectively, to achieve solidarity between our regions and to have the necessary tools to be able to meet the challenges of our time. and as we enter the winter, let us not forget the housing crisis that is hitting us. we therefore count on your action in this area, commissioner, particularly in response to our two requests for studies in this area.
madam president, on the g20, i believe that the european union came to this meeting with good proposals. when you read the conclusions, all of this is a little bit lacking. how are we going to deal with the issue of credit rating agencies, alternative funds, tax havens? all good intentions, but if we rely solely on self-regulation and codes of conduct, we will not succeed. let's be realistic and ambitious. the picture of the european union was frankly not so good. we have to move forward. this is something that the large member states must be aware of, but also the small ones, the small ones who sometimes head departments at the imf and do not want to let them go. everyone must sweep in front of their own door so that tomorrow we can improve our representation of the european union. on the real economy, i heard what president barroso said to us and i was quite surprised. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. so in that case i would ask the commission to follow the proposals of my colleague, poul nyrup rasmussen, even if they are to be described as populist. because if we do nothing in the real economy, we will have the same failure and the same strategy of economic recovery that ireland has had to rescue its banking sector, a strategy of 'save the best you can' which, at a time of global crisis in a globalised world, has no chance of success. it will be public money badly spent, which will do nothing for the european union to catch up with the united states, which has already put in place a major stimulus plan. we must think european, we must think global and we must act at national level in a concerted, coordinated way, with the commission's capacity for initiative. we expect this from her in her communication on 26 november. we are waiting for an ambitious european recovery plan.
madam president, i am addressing the commission since the council is no longer here, but i really do not think that the proposals made by mr barroso will solve the problem of the current crisis, because i think you have forgotten one thing. you've forgotten who is responsible for this crisis. it is our productive system and our development that are destroying and exploiting the planet and the people. the crisis is not over, and i think we should realize that. i even think it is just beginning and that our society will falter much more than it is currently faltering. i believe that if the leaders of a globalised world do not see the need to change course, our fellow citizens, on the other hand, do not understand how we can find billions of euros to give to banks and, tomorrow, to the automobile, while the household basket is shrinking like a sore throat. when you propose an economic recovery, if it is the same one that was done in those years and that led to chaos, you are wrong. i think we really need to reduce our ecological footprint. that's it. how are you going to answer that question? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank our colleague, mrs piia-noora kauppi, for her excellent report and for her efforts to find a reasonable solution to the various questions that were raised, particularly the one on the platform. the proposal for a directive is part of the large-scale action undertaken to reduce the administrative burden on businesses in order to alleviate their constraints and increase their competitiveness. we are of course actively supporting this objective which is beneficial to smes. we support the creation of an electronic platform containing all the information and the principle of a single fee covering all the costs of the necessary publications. however, the best possible information should be provided and the usual means of publication, which are still necessary, should be retained, particularly in the form of the printed press. the text proposed by the rapporteur after negotiations, and adopted unanimously by the legal affairs committee, allows member states to provide for the maintenance of the usual methods of publication, provided that their cost is included in the single publication fee. we have therefore, commissioner, respected the spirit of the proposal by making the platform compulsory and maintaining the principle of a single tax. however, we have taken account of the reality of the different countries, which are not all digitised in the way that some are, and of information habits that should not be overlooked. you know, commissioner, that the opinion of the citizens must be taken into account and that europe must not appear as a source of new constraints or difficulties. that is why we wanted flexibility to take account of the realities of the various member states, while maintaining the economy of the system. you have said, commissioner, in a very strong way that the legal affairs committee's proposal undermines the commission's position. i do not think that is correct, nor is it correct to say that the legal affairs committee's proposal introduces new formalities, since on the contrary it says that the existing formalities can be maintained and since we obviously exclude the possibility of introducing new formalities. i believe, commissioner, that what is needed is for europe to show that it is capable of reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens, while respecting national identities.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs kauppi, the rapporteur, because she has done an excellent job and thanks to her the committee on legal affairs has found a compromise which, i remind you, was voted unanimously, commissioner. so the signal sent is clear. it reconciles the need for administrative simplification for businesses, in particular smes, and the right to education for citizens, while leaving the member states free to maintain publication obligations as they wish. i am confident that the european parliament will follow the path traced by the committee on legal affairs. the 27 member states have their own traditions, some advocating the internet as a whole, others still using more traditional paper-based communication solutions. we have to respect tradition. let us not forget that 50% of european citizens do not have access to the internet. if the information is only available on a single electronic platform, those who do not have access to the internet or who prefer to use paper media will not be able to receive information on businesses in their region. i think the european parliament understands that simply suppressing the publication of judicial and legal notices, for example in regional newspapers, would have disastrous consequences. therefore, member states should be able to organise the dissemination of information by complementary means under specific conditions. commissioner, we are not in an ideological debate. do you not think that in the present circumstances you have something better to do than to interfere with what is going on in the member states? trying to simplify things can sometimes lead to making things more complicated. cutting costs? yes, but at what cost? easing constraints to increase competitiveness? yes, but where is the competitiveness when simplification risks seriously damaging the whole economy of a sector? the commission is expected to realise that we must promote solutions which will enable the printing press to overcome the difficulties it is currently facing. commissioner, you must not be closed to the traditions of the member states. by doing so, you are taking responsibility for the risk of a number of journalists being fired and for the lack of information for a large part of the population. what we want is a directive which is balanced with the electronic platform and the single tax. we are convinced that we have found a solution, and you must respect the european parliament's vote.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, behind this obscure title, everyone is aware of the challenge of the discussion we are having this evening, following hungary's request for financing, which was first addressed to the imf. the european union has asked itself under what conditions it could support one of its member states. it is true that a discussion has started among the members of the economic and monetary committee as to why hungary turned to the imf in the first place. and this is a challenge to hungary as such, as a member of the european union for several years now, but it is also a challenge to the institutions of the european union in the sense that clearly, at this stage, we have not been able to develop this climate of trust, this climate of solidarity, this climate of cooperation to a sufficient degree for a country like hungary, in the difficult situation in which it is today, to consider that its first circle of solidarity, its first circle of cooperation, is the european union. i believe that the plan which is being put into effect, namely the balance of payments support facility which was found at the initiative of the commission and commissioner almunia, whom i thank on the basis of article 119, will eventually lead to a successful solution in cooperation with the imf. of course, everyone is now aware that, unfortunately, this situation in hungary is not likely to be an isolated case and that we must somehow strengthen the cushion that enables the european union to respond to such demands. in the resolution we adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and which i hope our plenary will support tomorrow, we ask the commission to verify under what conditions the banks of certain member states of the union have contributed to the worsening of this situation, because i believe that in the debate we are about to open, this is an important piece of information which it is useful for the european parliament, and then, no doubt, for the group led by jacques de larosière, to verify. we also said that for us the basic idea of the council proposal was to bring this level of facilities up to a certain threshold which we accepted, with the conviction that perhaps this would not be the last discussion we have with the commission. at this stage we understand that under the conditions of negotiation with the council this is the basis of the agreement and so we accept this situation. in the future, we hope that between the commission, the council and the european parliament we can have regular validation of these amounts because when the european parliament had spoken in 2002 on the regulation we are amending today, we had asked for a regular update to be organised: obviously, in a certain way i would say unfortunately, we were right. so today we are asking you again, commissioner, and i think it is reasonable to ask that this be done. finally, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i asked that we should have the tools, the methods of using article 100 of the treaty, which would also make it possible, on a wider basis, to support certain member states, not just in relation to balance of payments problems. unfortunately, i have not been supported on this point by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but i am taking advantage of my position as rapporteur to call on the commission and invite it to examine and look closely at this facility which is offered to us by the treaty and which we have not yet exploited to its full potential.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have four comments. firstly, the commissioner asks us to be able to respond quickly and flexibly to any new requests. i think the european parliament has shown its ability to meet the deadline. today we accept the 25 billion threshold for the amendment of the 2002 liability regulation, as we know the conditions of the negotiation with the council, but of course we are open and available to consider, unfortunately, other scenarios. my second observation is to remind you that one of the lessons we have learned from this stage of our european construction is that for every member state, whether it is in the euro zone or not, the first circle of solidarity, the first circle of discussion should be the european union, and i hope that for everyone, for the institutions and for the member states, this is now clear. my third comment will be to note with satisfaction the commission's commitment to make public, or to examine first and then make public, both in our committee on economic and monetary affairs and in mr de larosière's group, the analytical elements which we must draw from the situation as it has developed in hungary. and then my last observation is to note with you that finally, in this crisis, everyone had initially imagined that there would be two channels of transmission of the crisis, the complex financial markets on the one hand, and on the other, the real economy. in fact, we see here that there is a third channel of transmission, namely capital movements, which can affect, among other things, financial markets which are not so complex and less opaque than others. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that your parliament has once again demonstrated its capacity and willingness to help in seeking and finding solutions to each new element of this crisis, hoping that we will finally find the elements to enable our economy to meet the challenges it faces in these very difficult times.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, this part of the world is indeed suffering from a kind of curse, and as alain hutchinson has very rightly said, almost five million deaths have accumulated since the early 1990s. there is a kind of "barrel of death" in this area - a killing in north kivu, uganda, rwanda, burundi - and it goes on and on every year "this barrel". i know that the same causes always produce the same effects; there are still ethnic conflicts because the borders we have drawn have often been artificial borders. there is a form of exacerbated nationalism: everyone is playing napoleon iii and trying to make his mexican adventure forget the problems of his country. there is, of course, the taste for money, alain pointed out, the often immeasurable wealth of this corner. there is also madness, for what else can we call the lord's resistance army's actions? so what can we do? i would also like to highlight the work of commissioner michel, who has been interested in this issue for a very long time. we had action at its meetings in kigali and kinshasa, which led to nairobi; we have sadc, we have obasanjo, we will have another big diplomatic summit. but is that a reason to rely on diplomacy alone? we are dealing with a very serious humanitarian situation. as your parliament's rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i had the opportunity to go to kinshasa at the beginning of november to meet the new minister for social affairs and humanitarian affairs, mr botswali lengomo. i also met apollinaire malu malu, who we almost awarded the sakharov prize for and who is in charge of the amani programme. first of all, let us not forget the enormous humanitarian effort we have to make. so what do we do at the bottom? are we sure we're doing everything we're supposed to? what is monuc doing, which seems to be absolutely right? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, of course, the solution is diplomatic. we must therefore support an african solution if we are able to put it into practice. we must of course ensure that the ceasefire is maintained to allow humanitarian access. without this essential condition, humanitarian aid will not be able to arrive. we must also cut off the source of income, of course we must close the mines, but perhaps we should also take action against the companies in the western world which buy coltan and other minerals which enable us to buy weapons. we must of course support the peace efforts as much as we can, and this must be done by showing a continuing political interest and not just occasionally. i would like to conclude by calling for a much stronger military presence to stabilize peace and that, of course, only the united nations can do. i understood that the european union sometimes had some capacity to persuade the united nations to do its duty.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said many times, the automobile industry directly or indirectly represents 12 million jobs in the european union. this is 10% of european gdp. the automobile industry is therefore facing a serious crisis: the european market is down by 15%. the commission has also proposed that the rate of inflation be reduced to 17% to 20% in the last quarters of 2008. manufacturers' profits are down. in this context, the lack of liquidity becomes the main risk for this industry. as a result, manufacturers are reducing production and trying to reduce structural costs. employment is the first victim of the crisis. as you said, mr president, in the face of this crisis, the response must be coordinated between europe and the member states, particularly those directly concerned. the proposed eib financial support is necessary. i naturally agree with your proposals. the first is to support investment, particularly in the design and manufacture of clean vehicles and the development of hybrid and electric vehicles. the aim is also to support the market by providing financial incentives for the renewal of the park. as the commissioner said, old cars are responsible for a large part of the pollution generated by cars. but we also need a stable, ambitious but realistic regulatory framework. the objectives on co2 emissions must be maintained, and the industry has devoted and is devoting considerable resources to them, but realism must lead to a moderation of the penalties for failure to meet the objectives. excessive penalties would kill the general contractors. the automobile industry is one of the most environmentally sensitive industries. finally, in the present circumstances, it would be detrimental to manufacturers if the protection of exterior body parts were to be undermined.
madam president, what should be the strategy to overcome this crisis? the crisis is now affecting all manufacturers and, by extension, the 12 million european citizens employed in the automobile industry. it is the workers, their families, who must be our first concern, who must be our first protection, in answering this pressing question: what strategy is needed to overcome this crisis? a solidary, structured, medium- and long-term industrial policy, a new car deal, a coordinated response by the states and the union, appropriate to the situation, rapid and effective. i hear in this chamber the old dogmas of outdated liberalism, no aid, no subsidies, competition, all competition. my dear colleagues, it is time for regulation, for public action. so we need a new car deal, an ambitious plan for the car industry, smart. firstly, to safeguard employment and develop employment in europe, with support for training. secondly, to accelerate the technological change of companies towards the target of clean and intelligent vehicles, with the intention of reviving demand by facilitating the renewal of the fleet of old vehicles, which generate pollution, with the creation of a european ecological bonus. in short, europe must act and cannot remain without a response, without action, without a voice, without action. we must act, act intelligently to accompany this transformation.
madam president, after having paid for the bank bailout, we must save the car and, of course, with public money. for more than ten years, however, we have been alerting the automotive industry to the public health consequences of co2 emissions. for over a decade, we've been asking him to build clean cars. for more than ten years, it has been deaf and hard of hearing and has resisted with the powerful automotive lobby, it has held back any evolution. the commissioner, as you are well aware, has recently resisted here in this house against cars21 and has called for emissions to be kept below 130 grams. and yet, after considerable profits, not invested in industrial restructuring, have been made, the financial crisis becomes the right excuse to call for public aid and lay off anyone. will the consumer once again be the turkey in the basket? he will have to pay to get a clean car on the market, without any guarantee that it will be cheaper, as it is today. the automobile industry must therefore look elsewhere to avoid bankruptcies tomorrow, because the aftermarket must be prepared.
in writing. voting against a report which is technically sound, since it concerns the compilation of community statistics, may seem absurd. it is not uninteresting, indeed, to have such data to help with the decision. however, despite the stated intentions, this new regulation leads to the development of a veritable statistical gas factory, to an increase in the statistical burden on national institutes and enterprises, both in terms of bureaucracy and financial costs, contrary to the commitments made on several occasions to simplify and lighten this burden. moreover, the europe of brussels is proving daily how much it values the figures on which it is supposed to rely. i will give only two examples. firstly, the weakness of the proposals to support the real economy which is entering recession, support which will in any case be subject to the dogmatic primacy of sacrosanct competition, global free trade and the 'stupid' stability pact. secondly, the negative effect of inflation on households since the introduction of euro banknotes and coins. the price of some commodities has doubled or even tripled in 6 years, while the ecb focuses on misleading aggregates and calls for wage moderation.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my portuguese colleague luis manuel capoulas santos, i voted for the legislative resolution amending the proposal for a council regulation establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers. it is essential that the concept of food security be affirmed in order to exclude any threat to the supply, in the context of balanced and sustainable management of the territory. i welcome and support the requests for simplification of procedures. i support the community instruments for crisis management. this vote confirms a favourable trend in the integration of agriculture into community policies. but the problems of the future of agriculture are not settled: it will be the 2009 electoral debate and the political negotiations that will open immediately after the elections.
in writing. ahead of the big budgetary turning point in 2013, which could mark the end of the cap via its creeping renationalisation, member states are trying to agree on a new reform of the cap, after the one in 2003, which does not say its name. the commission's stated aim is to adapt more to the market by reducing direct aid for environmental and rural development policies. unfortunately, the reform is not up to the challenges facing europe in agriculture: feeding 9 billion people by 2050, occupying limited agricultural land, depending on prices linked to speculation on agricultural raw materials, etc. in this fluctuating and uncertain context, we must defend the agricultural exception in the wto, since agriculture and the agri-food industry are not commodities like any other, but non-delocalised products, derived from the know-how and genius of generations of farmers. what if the cap health check was just the first step towards total liberalisation of the cap, without regulation or safety net? it is up to us to be vigilant and to denounce any liberal drift in this area, which does not mean that we should stand by.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that our legislative debate today is devoted to legal immigration, allowing us to participate in a debate which is not or is no longer focused on the criminalisation of illegal immigration, but which rightly emphasises the positive aspects and the considerable contribution of legal immigration to our european societies. it is important to remind europeans, in the current demographic context, of the significant contribution of immigration to the prosperity and economic development of the european union. the demographic forecasts we have at present present present major risks to the viability of pension, health and social security systems. in the face of these situations, the european union has made a clear choice: to promote a common immigration policy that encourages legal, economic immigration, managed effectively according to the needs of national markets. so we are debating two major pieces of legislation today, pragmatic pieces of legislation, which are supposed to meet clearly defined labour needs in our member states. by adopting these two texts simultaneously, the european parliament is sending a clear message of openness, which we must fully grasp in order to explain to our public opinion, our fellow citizens and third countries what we are doing in a positive way in the field of immigration. we have nothing to be ashamed of in our choices in this area and we have nothing to learn from the leaders of third countries who are unable to pursue appropriate policies to prevent their populations from risking their lives to find better conditions in europe. to focus on the single procedure directive for which i am the rapporteur, firstly, the proposal introduces a one-stop-shop system for third country nationals who wish to reside in a member state in order to work there. it provides for a single application procedure which is simpler, shorter and faster for both the employer and the migrant, with the aim of reducing bureaucratic procedures and simplifying administrative procedures. this procedure and the single title will also make it easier for the administration and employers to check the validity of the titles. secondly, the proposal for a directive will ensure equal treatment for all third country nationals in a number of areas. the recognition of the fundamental social and economic rights of immigrants legally present in the territories of the european union and of newcomers will contribute to the improvement of their integration and thus to a better social cohesion. equal treatment concerns working conditions, health, safety at the workplace, education, vocational training, recognition of qualifications, social security, including health care, export of pensions, access to goods and services and tax benefits. realistic restrictions are indeed envisaged, but we will ensure that they are not wider than what is provided for in the 'blue card'. the interests of immigrants must be taken into account and their rights must be protected. the figures show that the unemployment rate of immigrants is higher than that of eu citizens, that they often have precarious jobs and that the language of the host country remains a major barrier. the two texts proposed by the commission, for whose good sense i am grateful, correspond to the idea that we have of immigration policy, a reasonably firm and humane policy. i also thank the council and the french presidency for the exceptional and rather rapid efforts they have made to ensure that we can achieve a rapid adoption of these two texts, which are perfectly complementary.
mr president, minister jouyet, commissioner barrot, i thank you very much. with your speeches you have just provided me with the arguments for my next election campaign, in relation to this issue of immigration, since you yourself speak, i quote, of an open european union, of opening up to migration flows, of the benefits of the blue card open to the greatest number, of attraction based on skills, of not stopping immigration. the european institutions could have adopted the motto of seeing nothing, hearing nothing, understanding nothing on the question of immigration, while our peoples in europe have been suffering every day for the last twenty years in relation to this issue, with all its economic and social consequences on identity, security, precariousness, poverty and unemployment. i hear immigrants' rights being talked about, but who talks about the social rights of workers? who is talking about the millions and tens of millions of people in europe who are in a difficult social situation, who do not have access to work at all levels of hierarchy and qualification? on the other hand, the integration policy pursued in europe is a genuine policy of national disintegration, of which we are victims through excessive communitization. the blue card you propose is nothing but a call to the whole world to attract millions of new immigrants, when it is not this policy that should be pursued, but a return policy, a national and community preference policy, a national and community protection policy. a final word to say that by looting the elites of the third world countries, well you are going to prohibit the economic development of those countries. these peoples and countries need capital and brains. you're depriving them of both!
mr president, six months after the shameful vote on the return directive, which has brought us so much criticism and criticism on the international scene, i really doubt that the union can, with the adoption of these two texts on the blue card and the single permit, redeem itself on the international scene. why would you do that? because we were told, rather emphatically, that a genuine european policy on legal migration was being put in place, and that we are finally left with reduced worker status, since there is no social assistance, loss of residence permit if job loss, reduced access to trade union membership and restriction of freedom of movement. this is not a sign of great ambition and the union is not about to compete with the united states or canada with such a blue card, if that were a laudable objective, by the way. is it really too much to ask for real guarantees of social protection, equal treatment with national workers? do we prefer to reduce these workers to a slave labor force? would ratifying the un convention on the protection of migrant workers and members of their families have guaranteed too many rights for them? finally, i ask myself, i ask you, what is the logic of wanting to attract migrant workers to the union, while refusing to regularize people who are already working in our territory, who are working legally and doing so without a residence permit? the union is opening up a legal migration policy, but it is doing so in retrospect, and it is the utilitarian logic and the exceptions to equal rights decided by each member state that are likely to prevail. when will we understand and accept, above all, that migration is a chance, an opportunity in terms of human development, in terms of economic and social development, in terms of the development of the countries of the south itself and in terms of intercultural dialogue, which we are doing so much of this year?
mr president, at european level we need to equip ourselves with effective tools in relation to immigration, and our world needs protection instruments to help those who are suffering in advance. the international community in general and europe in particular are unfortunately not prepared for this, even though we are in a century which, with globalisation, will inevitably be the century of displacement. we must absolutely integrate this reality into all our perspectives. as regards the blue card, we must be able to welcome migrant workers, while taking care not to plunder countries by holding back those who are responsible for their development. that is why we want to help train highly skilled workers in key sectors in the countries of origin and we must promote circular migration. i would like to conclude my brief remarks by recalling that we need european solidarity extended to the developing countries. and if we talk in terms of feasibility - the ability to respond to the current financial crisis is a testament to that - when we have the political will, we have the material means.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. this directive is the first major text on legal immigration. it is designed to encourage the arrival in the union of highly qualified workers from third countries, the vast majority of whom currently prefer to go to the united states or canada. the blue card will now give them a wide range of rights for themselves and their families. of course, we risk being accused of supporting the idea of immigration by choice, but i would like to point out that it is the council that has consistently opposed a horizontal directive applicable to all immigrant workers. the commission therefore had no choice but to start with highly skilled workers, for whom it knew it would be easier to get the agreement of the member states, in the hope of making some progress in the area of legal immigration. i regret this sectoral approach, of course, but we socialists have been denouncing the exclusively repressive nature of european immigration policy for so long and calling for a legal immigration policy worthy of the name that it seems important to me to validate this first step. we should not forget that other texts are already being prepared, for example on seasonal workers and trainees.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a number of things. i shall first speak about the debate. the debate was quite interesting. i will not quote anyone, but i will say that the epp has no lessons to learn about respect for human rights. the epp welcomes europe's ability to agree on common instruments for managing the flow of migration, and it is also pleased that europe is not closing in on itself. we have an immigration policy that is both humane and firm; we are not only condemning the inhuman conditions in which undocumented immigrants live in our countries, but we are doing everything we can to prevent men and women from risking their lives by boarding ships, and we are also condemning the smugglers and the rogue ship owners. as regards the blue card and the single procedure for residence permits, i will tell our friend catania that we need both the elite and others in our countries. the rights of legal immigrants, if they are to be so called, will be the same as those of community citizens, no more, no less. europe does not need to make amends to others on migration policies. europe does not regard immigrants as bandits, criminals or as a threat to our security or our work. these are men, women and children of flesh and blood who seek a better life with us, because they have nothing with themselves. our goal is to help and support them, even to encourage them to stay at home. our migration policy is dignified, it is open, it is perhaps safe, but for them, as for us, this policy is something to be proud of, as we will be proud tomorrow of the vote on these two reports on europe's migration policy.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the council on european space policy: europe and space by pierre pribetich, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0111/2008 b6-0482/2008), and- oral question to the commission on european space policy: europe and space by pierre pribetich, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0112/2008 b6-0483/2008). i am delighted to be the toulousain who presides over this debate.
author. - mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, 'it is high time to light the stars again'. i wanted to start with this line from a poem by guillaume apollinaire, to show the importance of the european parliament in reviving space policy. for more than thirty years, the european union and its member states have been involved in the financing, formulation and development of space policy. unfortunately, this policy has gradually lost its brilliance and its radiance. the foundations of a european space policy were laid in 2003 by the ec-esa framework agreement. the space council of 22 may 2007 was certainly part of the political continuum of this framework agreement. but the light from that star is still not enough. however, europe's independence, its role on the international scene, its security and its prosperity all converge to make this major policy an incomparable asset for an ambitious industrial policy that creates jobs and growth, for a strengthened cultural, economic and scientific influence on the international scene, an essential vehicle for the knowledge society we are calling for. in the institutional triangle of the union, if it is not to become a bermuda triangle, the parliament, representing the european citizens, must play an important and increased role in the formulation and definition of this policy. it's time to turn the stars back on. by making this commitment on 26 september 2008, the council is taking part in this act and we want to contribute to this building. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in order to follow this good example, it seems to me essential to recall the fundamental elements in the development of this space policy. the budget issue first. we are now asking for a specific budget line to reflect, to demonstrate properly our commitment to european space policy. the space industries need sufficient public support to increase their research and development capacity, to simply remain profitable. international competition is fierce and fierce. while the united states, russia, japan and india are significantly increasing their space industry budgets and increasing public procurement, we europeans are still looking for the appropriate funding to achieve our ambitious objectives, as others are looking for lost time. what initiatives does the commission intend to take to improve the contribution of the european space sector, to be a major player, the major player responding to this growing global demand, in all aspects of space policy, from the launch to the service? part two. the challenge of strategic options for applications linked to galileo and egnos on the one hand and gems on the other hand, through the lens of governance to create an efficient structure, generating clear governance for enhanced efficiency of all european space programmes. the last challenge is space exploration. what is the long-term vision of our european space policy, and for what purposes? to go to space is a matter of decades, of long-term vision, of ambition. i am now echoing president kennedy's speech setting the american people a new, unassailable frontier. the sanctification of 21 july 1969 was perhaps the most fabulous accelerator of progress in the technological history of our civilization for all industries in space and even in everyday life. give us that long-term vision in this concert of nations. so here we are at the end of this long march, at the end of this long march. europe is at a crossroads in space policy. space has now multiplied its fields of action and application. from science to defence, space covers a wide range of activities, ranging from environmental protection to sme development. let us get closer to the users, increase the reliability and quality of the data collected. we're going to be the leaders in the space market. it is our duty to future generations to strengthen this european space policy and to make the key choices to put future generations into orbit so that they can live in a forward-looking and futuristic europe. space is our new frontier of europe. the great book of history is now open with its vertigo of blank pages. europe must not only be part of it, but also be the main actor. so it's high time to relight the stars.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we all agree here that space policy has become an essential component of the future of our society. three priority areas could be summarised: security and defence, protection against environmental crises and the provision of new services for human activities. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans must recognize that space has a strategic defensive dimension. i know that this point is disputed by some of my colleagues. yes, the observation of the planet must be sustained over time in order to study its slow dynamic variations, and in particular those induced by human action affecting the global climate, natural resources and biodiversity. at the same time, a large number of public policies and economic activities require information and forecasts from space observation systems. this is the challenge of the gmes in europe, which is part of the global geo process. yes, space policies have a growing impact on scientific research, technological innovation and beyond, on the dynamism of imaginations. space and planetary exploration programmes now play a vital role in this. telephones and tvs, gps, weather forecasts, and remote medical care have changed our lifestyles. no one can imagine that satellites will stop working. the experience gained in space technologies, including the successful launch of the ariane spacecraft, alone justifies the implementation of a real european space policy. to meet the ambition of our independence, we will have to find the right governance and also, of course, the right financing. in conclusion, the space policy that europe intends to pursue will reflect its will to remain either a significant player on the world stage, but reduced to a more or less partner role, or to be a strong europe, a major player in global governance capable of solving key problems for the future of humanity.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a former rapporteur for the committee on transport, i had given an enthusiastic opinion on the galileo project. today we see that this central project has been hampered by the omnipotence and technocratic inertia of our institutions. every time the union has refused to accept free and variable-geometry cooperation between states, it has sterilized private initiative, increased costs and hindered the emergence of competent and coherent competing consortia. but whenever the states united freely, the plans succeeded. so here, as elsewhere, the role of our institutions is to keep a simple substitute role; the fact that we want to be the stewards of everything, when we should be the guarantors of little, reminds us of one thing: in space matters, europe must first keep its feet on the ground.
before i address the council, i should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are three members of this house who were born on 5 august, the birthday of neil armstrong. i'm one of the three, that's why i know. i'll let you ponder while you listen to the council.
president of the council. - i am not surprised by you, mr president, and i am very happy for you, you deserve it! i shall be extremely brief, mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, because a great deal has been said. firstly, your speeches and debates have shown the commitment of your assembly to the european space policy. we are looking for a european project that will unite us. we are looking for european projects that will really stimulate and enable new generations of europeans to join this unique adventure. as has been said, we are looking for projects to improve the practical lives of our fellow citizens. we are looking for projects which have the real vocation of developing competitiveness, of bringing together the various european industrial partners, of supporting activity in this period of depression. we are looking for projects to ensure that research, development and innovation are strengthened. we are looking for projects to be fully synthetic that make europe more visible, become a global player and weigh in on the global challenges ahead, whether in the fight against climate change, whether in development, or also in strategic balances with our other partners. i think your debate shows that we must not slacken our efforts, but must instead concentrate all our resources, all our cooperation capacities, on what is the most symbolic of european projects, namely the european space policy.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am grateful for the broad support for european space policy that this debate has shown, and i join this with the wish that this broad support will be effective in creating the financial basis for a permanent and sustainable european presence in space. i must warn you: the competition doesn't sleep here either. other regions of the world are already much further along, also with the vision of what we should do next. if we are not able to find new projects and develop new technologies, then we will not be able to maintain our leading position in today's space-based applications because we simply lack the scientific basis and the research basis for it. so i say again, i was very grateful that all this was made visible today. if we all work together to raise awareness, it is in the sense that we tell the citizens of europe the story that mr chichester spoke about, namely that european projects in space can be a great unifying bond for all of us.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the council on the need for the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions before the end of 2008 by angelika beer, on behalf of the greens/efa group, ana maria gomes, on behalf of the pse group, annemie neyts-uyttebroeck and elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the alde group, ģirts valdis kristovskis, on behalf of the uen group, tobias pflüger and gabriele zimmer, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, and stefano zappalà, on behalf of the epp-ed group (o-0110/2008/rev. 1 - b6-0481/2008).
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on demographic trends - economic and social impact.
madam president, mr minister, in a few words: the stumbling block to this demographic challenge which we will have to face is, of course, from an economic and social point of view, the decline in the working population. two figures: in 2010, we will have 217 million people of working age, in 2050, 180 million people, a shortfall of almost 36 million people. can we fear a shortage of manpower? is there any reason to fear an imbalance between the working population and the dependent population? to this problem we propose two solutions which lead to the most optimal management of human resources. first, full employment. we have to move towards full employment. there are currently significant job opportunities, given the underemployment of young people, women, seniors aged 55 and over and the under-skilled. we are witnessing a huge waste of skills. we see that if the employment rate for women and the elderly aged 55 to 65 reached the best rates in europe by 2050, we could make up for this labour shortage. finally, education and training throughout life. we want to move towards optimized working life cycles. it is not normal for a worker, a supervisor or a 50-year-old executive to have only a stagnating career prospect. the same is true of corporate social responsibility. (the president cut the speaker off)
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by gabriele stauner, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the future of social security and pension schemes: their financing and the trend towards individualisation (2007/2290 (ini)) (a6-0409/2008).
that item is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 november 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for council and commission statements on hiv/aids: early detection and treatment.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 november 2008.
the agenda calls for the report by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the amendment of the single cmo regulation (com ((2008) 0489 - c6-0314/2008 - 2008/0156 (cns)) (a6-0368/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 november 2008.
the agenda calls for debate on the oral question to the commission on the apiculture situation of neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0104/2008 - b6-0480/2008).
i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), the motion for a resolution from the committee on agriculture. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 november 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president of the european court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, my first words will be, mr president of the court, to thank you for the immense work you have done with the financial magistrates around you, and i believe that this is an important document to inform us. this discharge, as we know, is the first discharge of the financial perspective for 2007-13. it is the first with the new management control, certification and audit system that the commission has put in place. it is the last one of the term of office which is coming to an end, because we are entering six months of work and we will be voting in april before the european elections, when the commission promised us a positive sda, but we have not had a positive sda for 14 years and so the european parliament is wondering. first of all, on the accounts, i'm told that it's an unqualified certification. why was the galileo enterprise not consolidated? and i'm not going to lie to you, i'll never get used to having accounts with 58 billion in negative equity. that's one of my questions. so we have some good news. it is good that we have a positive declaration for administrative expenditure, with low error rates, and that we have no fraud, according to the exchanges we have had. but the member states have shared management which is not good in agriculture, cohesion, the structural funds, where there are too many errors. in some member states, it is sometimes more than 60%. the council is not here, and it would be interesting to know what the member states and the council think of this situation, at a time when they are not signing the national declarations and when citizens, in a context of difficult public finances, will be demanding. i think we should - you are right, mr president - suggest that we should think about this discharge procedure with the committees, the commission, the council, parliament, the national parliaments and the national audit bodies, which are very much absent, too absent from this debate. i would like, mr president, if i may, to take 30 seconds of the speaking time as rapporteur to express my surprise, as my colleagues do, that the council is absent, but i understand, mr president of the european court of auditors, that you are going to present your report to the ecofin council in a few days' time and that the council will therefore not be able to express itself until an exchange of views between the various member states. it is in this context that, with the member states being singled out for shared management, i would like to have the council's opinion quickly, and i will allow myself, mr president of the european parliament, to table a request for a written question at question time so that the council can express itself quickly, once it has had an exchange of views on this excellent report by the european court of auditors.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to thank the court of auditors for the good work they have done. we have had some colleagues who have just been outraged by the general use of european funds. i would like to say that i hope that the media, when reporting on our debates and the results of the court of auditors' work, will not do what they usually do, that is, talk about trains arriving late and not about trains arriving on time, because it is quite obvious that the bulk of the european union budget has been spent wisely. you mustn't confuse the tree with the forest. that said, we have noted that there is a tendency for improvement in this report by the court of auditors. that's very good news. you also told us there were millions of beneficiaries. this shows the difficulty and the scale of the task. i shall, for my part, stress two responsibilities. i don't want to point an accusing finger at any particular organization. i simply mean that if we are to improve in the future, those with the key responsibilities in this area must act. i think there are two kinds of people in charge. commissioner, there is the commission, and the court of auditors has just told us, recalling that there were several million beneficiaries, that the first thing to do upstream was to simplify the rules. we therefore expect, before we talk about checks, before we talk about the report, that upstream, for these beneficiaries - in particular associations, individuals, etc. - things will actually be simplified. the second responsibility, of course, lies with the member states. with my colleagues in the committee on regional development, we have repeatedly stressed the responsibility of the member states in the context of the structural funds. they are often the ones who add to the administrative complexity. and, instead of positioning themselves in terms of advice, they often position themselves in terms of complicators on the one hand, and judges on the other. so, beyond this report by the court of auditors, we really expect that each of the member states in the coming years will facilitate access to european funds on the one hand, and of course establish more adequate controls on the other.
mr president, i do not wish to speak for the presidency, but i would like to reply to my colleague, mr pomés ruiz. i think he was probably not in the chamber when the rapporteur spoke. the council did not wish to be present in the chamber before the ecofin meeting. it was totally intentional. i don't think the exchange of views was supposed to happen before this meeting. the key word in the report, i believe, is simplification. but, ladies and gentlemen, i think that shared management does indeed cause complications in the european funds and the level of complications we have is not, in any case, due to fraud, particularly in the agricultural sector. unfortunately, what we are seeing today, particularly in the field of rural development, is due to the extreme complexity of the management of european funds. we voted for the cap yesterday, and we must realise that cross-compliance, for example, is very complicated: the european parliamentarians are calling for a simplification of cross-compliance because farmers really struggle to manage cross-compliance. simplification of european funds, particularly as regards the management of the structural funds, is desirable, and this is a political message we must convey. simplification of european funds is the key word today, and it must be heard.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i believe that the oral amendment has been circulated to you in writing. instead of saying 'the council and the member states', i suggest you say 'the member states within the council'. in english it would read, the member states within the council and the commission, with deletion of and the member states. and i hope the epp group can accept it. it's more consistent and efficient.
president of the council. - madam president, diana wallis, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr kallas, ladies and gentlemen, group chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is not without emotion that i speak before you at the time of the votes. i am glad that the french presidency has been given the opportunity to speak to this house on the subject of the european pnr. this project raises many questions, fears and expectations, all of which deserve careful consideration. it involves a large number of public and private actors, and it involves the internal security of the european union, its conception of fundamental freedoms and rights, and even, in some respects, its international policy. this programme must therefore be approached in a concerted and methodical step-by-step approach. we have had, throughout this semester, open debates, argued, organized around specific and concrete themes. we have heard from companies in the air transport sector, from the security services in the member states, from the european union's counter-terrorism coordinator. we have worked in full transparency with the data protection authorities. the contribution of the european controller has also been very useful, i must say. the french presidency has sought the opinion of the fundamental rights agency and this initiative was a first. in the same spirit of openness, the council has expressed its desire to involve your assembly very closely, irrespective of the legal basis or institutional framework currently in force. that is why we have proposed to your assembly that we should discuss this programme as often as possible. your rapporteur has also received informal detailed information on each stage of the work carried out during the six months. within eight days the presidency will submit to the justice and home affairs council for approval a written report on the progress of the work. i hereby undertake before this house that this summary document will be forwarded to you. we must be able to discuss all the issues raised by this programme. there are three kinds of them. the first is that this instrument is an indispensable tool, as is shown, for example, by its use in the fight against drugs. in france, for example, it is found that 60 to 80% of drug interceptions at airports are attributable to data programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, who works closely with the relevant services in the member states, believes that the usefulness of the data from this programme is undeniable, particularly in view of the particular vulnerability of terrorists when crossing borders. the second issue is that there is clearly a need to define a body of principles protecting rights and freedoms which will have to be respected throughout europe in all use of data. the way in which these data are collected and processed is very different today, and this is not satisfactory within the union. we need harmonized standards, and anything that is unnecessary or disproportionate must of course be excluded or punished. the third challenge is international. there is an interest in developing a comprehensive policy, in having an alternative model to the american model, and europe must be able to promote this model at international level. the union is called upon to intervene in the global concert to influence the way in which these data and programmes are used and regulated. it is a question of influence, it is also a question of respect for our values. our airlines and our fellow citizens are asking us to do this to limit the constraints caused by national requirements which are too diverse. that is what we must think about together, madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the house. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, since minister jouyet is leaving us, i think this house should thank him. he was one of the most diligent ministers we had ever known. i wish him luck! (applause from the left)
in writing. on the basis of my distinguished colleague and friend, the german ingeborg grassle, i voted for the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 concerning investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). i support improving the protection of the rights of persons under investigation by olaf and strengthening cooperation with member states. it became essential to establish public governance of olaf's anti-fraud investigation activities and the need for independent control of the procedures and duration of investigations, while ensuring the protection of the confidentiality of investigations. inge grassle has done a great deal of work with this report, and we should thank her for it.
in writing. mrs stauner, the rapporteur, makes a lucid analysis of the challenges that the ageing of our populations and the decline of our working populations pose to our social protection systems, to which she seems committed. that's a good first point for her. a second good point is the timid question it raises about the real effectiveness of the usual panacea, namely the mass settlement of immigrant workers who are expected to pay for pensions and health care for the elderly in europe. it is also characterized by a stunning cynicism and selfishness, and is championed by people who often claim to have a monopoly on love and tolerance. finally, a final point for his critical analysis of the trend towards privatisation of health systems and the purely financial approach to reforms of national social security systems. but the report misses the point: since the demographic decline of our continent is at the root of these problems, it is this that must be remedied. the member states can no longer afford to have an ambitious family and maternity policy, which is no doubt a guarantee of the balance of their social security, but above all of their dynamism, their prosperity and, quite simply, their survival.
in writing. the stauner report, although it refers to the lisbon strategy, a blatantly europeanist failure, deserves support because it calls into question the credo of immigration as a remedy against the future worsening of europe's demographic, economic and social deficits. whether chosen or not, immigration distorts the identity and culture of the peoples of europe, it aggravates communitarianism and the resulting tensions, as is the case in all multiethnic and multicultural societies in the world. it is a neo-slavery for the sole benefit of the globalist predators who see in this cheap labour the means to put pressure on wages in a context of already very high unemployment. it will allow the plundering of the elites of third countries, making their situation even worse. it is a strategic decoy, since the behaviour of immigrants will inevitably end up being modelled on that of europeans, i am thinking in particular of the unfortunate tendency to have fewer children in a society, it is true, which is confused in every respect. in addition to support for families and european births, the new europe of nations needs a policy of national and community preference, a policy of national and community protection.
in writing. i voted for the klamt report on the creation of a european blue card because it offers us, for the first time, the opportunity at european level to move from a culture of 'no', that of fortress europe, to a culture of 'yes', that of an open europe, in order to develop a positive management of migration flows and to recognise a number of rights for workers. it is important that this process be continued rapidly by adopting further measures in favour of other categories of foreign workers. i'll be careful. we could have gone further, of course, and would have preferred a horizontal directive rather than a sectoral directive, but there are some achievements, including the principle of equal pay for equal work, the rejection of brain drain, particularly in key sectors such as health and education, and the doubling of the period of residence permitted for the purpose of seeking a new job after the end of an employment contract. the aim of this text is therefore to promote legal immigration channels and certainly not a selected form of immigration, which i am opposed to.
in writing. the european blue card, supposedly reserved for highly skilled workers, offering its beneficiaries freedom of movement and establishment in all the member states of the european union, will be a new vacuum pump for immigration that will be no more controlled at the union level than it is today in many countries at the national level. it will encourage permanent settlement immigration by providing an instantaneous right to family reunification without any real time limit. it is the bureaucratic organization of the new modern slavery, which now chooses its victims on the basis of their qualifications, not on the basis of their muscles or their teeth. it will deprive developing countries of the brains they so badly need, worsening their economic situation and ensuring the endless pursuit of ever-increasing illegal immigration. it introduces a totally aberrant and arbitrary minimum wage threshold, which takes no account of reality, the sectors or the trades concerned. the twofold consequence is foreseeable: the lowering of the wages of the most highly qualified europeans, who will be even more tempted than today to emigrate outside europe; the exploitation of immigrants, with no guarantee for them to obtain wages really commensurate with their qualifications.
in writing. the speeches by mr jean-pierre jouyet, president of the council, and mr jacques barrot, vice-president of the commission, during the debate on the european blue card and the single permit combining residence and work authorization were very demonstrative. petit florilège: 'these texts show the true scope of the pact on immigration and asylum, which the french presidency has made possible, and they prove that this pact is indeed balanced and that it also shows the willingness of europeans to open up to these migratory flows which can be particularly useful and prove very positive for the future of our european society' (sic jacques barrot). "the possibility of returning to one's country of origin for two years without losing longterm resident status is essential" (sic jacques barrot). "these two texts are a beginning and not an end, and they do leave room for circular migration" (sic jean-pierre jouyet). "these two texts demonstrate that the union is genuinely committed to promoting legal migration" (sic pierre jouyet). there can now be no doubt that our leaders and our french representatives to the european institutions are the proponents of a massive extra-european immigration of people leading to policies of national disintegration. we will vote against it.
in writing. mrs klamt's report on the conditions for entry and residence in the european union of third-country nationals for the purpose of highly skilled employment starts from a simple observation in order to reach incorrect conclusions. it is true that skilled immigrants from outside the community prefer to emigrate to the united states or canada rather than to europe. to try to reverse the trend and bring them into our house is a worrying masochism and loss of lucidity. can we not train engineers, computer scientists, doctors to bring them from the third world? is it humanly acceptable to loot the brains of countries which absolutely need such qualified personnel to develop? do you think that by encouraging the kind of immigration that mr sarkozy wants, we will stop legal immigration and especially illegal immigration? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer to these questions is to point out the danger of such a europe committing, in this case, a real crime against humanity against the third world. we cannot therefore vote for such a report.
in writing. the 'european blue card', a veritable sesame meant to create additional extra-european skilled immigration, will be an economic, social and human catastrophe for the peoples and nations of europe already suffering from uncontrollable illegal immigration and exponentially growing legal immigration to avoid the inevitable social dumping which would result from the arrival of engineers or other specialists with degrees from other continents, the planned wage must be at least 1.7 times the minimum wage of the host country: the french worker will appreciate... the immigrant worker can also bring his family with him under an accelerated procedure, thus promoting family reunification, which is already important and dangerous. in addition, the immigrant will be able to accumulate his periods of presence in the european territory in order to obtain long-term resident status. the circle is complete: the conditions for mass settlement and naturalisation in the member states are met! the scandal is also that this will exacerbate the "brain drain" of third countries, especially africa, by capturing their elites. a further impoverishment of these countries is guaranteed. once again, the people of europe will not be consulted on this globalist and immigration policy of brussels. more than ever, our fight must be for the sovereignty of nations and the right of peoples to remain themselves.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my friend, mr patrick gaubert, i voted for a legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a council directive establishing a single application procedure for the issue of a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and establishing a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state. i would like to commend patrick gaubert for his important work on this sensitive subject, which is aimed at making efforts to develop a comprehensive european immigration policy. it made sense to work on the common basis of rights to be granted to all third-country workers who are already legally resident in a member state, as well as on a procedural aspect, namely the issuing of a single permit following a single application procedure.
in writing. the european parliament has just adopted by a very large majority two reports on the admission of migrant workers to european countries, demonstrating europe's real capacity to put in place concrete instruments for the concerted management of economic migration flows. the adoption of my report on the single procedure for the granting of residence and work permits formally contradicts the unfounded accusations of a number of african and latin american heads of state of a closed-in 'fortress europe'. " the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to establish a european agency for fundamental rights. these decisions will help to improve their integration, migrant workers are not a threat to our labour markets. the blue card report will make it easier for graduates and highly skilled migrants to enter the labour markets of the eu countries, thanks to more attractive reception conditions. europe is demonstrating that it is capable of a dignified, firm and open immigration policy.
in writing. mr gaubert wants to 'bring a message of europe's openness to legal immigration', by granting legal immigrants all kinds of rights, by restricting the possibility for member states to limit the full equality of treatment between european nationals and immigrants from member states, in short, by organising a european positive discrimination obligation. mr gaubert should rest assured that it is well known in all the countries of emigration that europe is a real sieve. each year hundreds of thousands of legal and illegal immigrants enter the country, attracted not by the prospect of work (in france only 7% of legal immigrants enter for this purpose), but by the prospect of benefiting from the ever-increasing number of social benefits and other rights offered to them and sometimes even reserved for them. and this without any demands being made on them in return, or even a minimum knowledge of the language of the host country, if you listen to mr gaubert. at a time when our countries are entering recession, when our economic and social models are being undermined by globalisation, when the number of unemployed and working poor in europe is exploding, it is urgent to call instead for the application of the principle of national and community preference in all areas.
in writing. i am deeply sorry that the excellent motion for a resolution on the future of european space policy, which has just been voted, makes no reference to the kourou space centre. yet, guyana is inevitably central to europe's space history. it's so obvious to everyone, that we don't even think to note that all the ariane rockets are assembled there and all of them have been launched since that launch. i thank the french presidency, represented by mr jean-pierre jouyet, who had the presence of mind to mention this during our debate yesterday. in my view, the european space strategy must absolutely include a genuine reflection on the future developments of the 'spaceport of europe', both in terms of infrastructure and manpower and research projects. kourou is the showcase of europe's space. guyana, the union's outermost region, deserves to be commended for its past and future contribution to this strategic policy. i would have liked to see our parliament pay tribute to the guiana space centre and express explicitly the pride it inspires in all europeans. in a few decades, the kourou has become a major component of our european identity.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on somalia.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission and commissioner michel, i wish to share some remarks about this issue of human rights in somalia. firstly, i would like to share the concern about the continuing conflict and political instability in somalia. somalia remains a context where fundamental rights and respect for basic human dignity continue to be shunned by armed entities perpetrating systematic and widespread attacks against civilians. in the last few months, an escalating wave of attacks on humanitarian workers, peace activists and human rights defenders has been sweeping southern and central somalia. at least 40 somali human rights defenders and humanitarian workers were killed between january and september 2008 alone. as a result of these attacks, a number of humanitarian organisations have been forced to withdraw staff from mogadishu; humanitarian access received further blows; and human rights and humanitarian conditions further deteriorated. the commission, together with the member states and other international actors, is committed to helping at this critical juncture. the eu supports the efforts of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, including the independent expert on human rights in somalia, shamsul bari, to come to the creation of a mechanism to investigate systematic human rights abuses by all parties. at the development level, the eu is strongly involved in supporting human rights organisations, mainly in training and funding for identification, documentation, monitoring of human rights abuses, and advocacy. in particular, the commission is increasingly involving civil society in any programme of reconstruction and national reconciliation, including exchange programmes for civil society with other regional organisations, paralegal training, public awareness campaigns, and women’s groups’ work on enhancing their political representation and participation in reconciliation processes. moreover, the eu supports programmes focusing on law enforcement and reinforcing the judiciary. meanwhile, we need to work to improve security and to make the somali reconciliation process move forward. a climate of insecurity will only serve to worsen the human rights situation and encourage violations of international humanitarian law. any lasting peace in somalia must be based on accountability and justice for the human rights violations committed by all sides throughout the somali conflict.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the death penalty in nigeria.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, since its independence, nigeria has enjoyed only three periods of civilian rule and has endured 29 years of military rule. nine years ago, nigeria took a step towards democracy and came back to civilian rule, even though all elections since then have been widely criticised for irregularities, fraud and violence. the april 2007 elections could have set a good example for other countries, but the opportunity was missed and the new government took up office amidst doubts of legitimacy. it is in this context, and bearing in mind the importance of a stable nigeria for africa, that a suitable strategy has to be found to engage the government there in a constructive dialogue over human rights. the commission fully shares the concerns expressed by honourable members on the issue of the death penalty, and agrees with the need, pending complete abolition of the death penalty, to declare an immediate moratorium on all executions. at the same time, it should be acknowledged that the situation of human rights in nigeria has generally improved since the return to civilian rule. indeed, some steps have been taken to launch a debate in the country over the usefulness of the death penalty as a deterrent to heinous crimes. several prisoners on death row have been pardoned this year and nigeria has committed itself to an intensified high level political dialogue with the eu which covers, inter alia, human rights issues. the commission has contributed significantly to starting this process, which could lead to a global eu political strategy vis-à-vis nigeria, and which has already led to an important ministerial troika and to a comprehensive joint communiqué. in the context of this dialogue, it will be possible to discuss constructively human rights issues, and to undertake a range of cooperation activities in crucial sectors such as peace and security, and governance and human rights. examples of cooperation initiatives under consideration include: support for improving the investigative capacity of the nigerian police; access to justice and support for prison reform; support for anticorruption efforts; support for the democratic process; and support for federal institutions dealing with human trafficking, illicit drugs, human rights and counterfeited medicines. to be effective, these actions will have to be made known to civil society and ordinary citizens. the commission will develop a strategy, based on a combination of support for local mass media and cultural initiatives, to support sensitive cooperation initiatives and to disseminate to the public educational messages concerning respect for human rights and basic freedoms, the basic values of democracy, good governance, care for the environment and so forth.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for debate on six motions for resolutions concerning the al-kurd family case.
we are of course considering your proposal, mr de rossa. it will be sent to whoever is entitled to it, knowing that the oral amendments of thursday afternoon have a somewhat special status since, even if there were not enough members to stand up to oppose them, the house could still vote against them.
i do not wish to open a debate, you will understand. i am simply telling you what the law is in this house. of course, any member is entitled to table an oral amendment at the time of the vote on thursday afternoon. in accordance with our rules, a number of colleagues may object. and i also tell you that we have already decided these issues at the highest level in the past. if it were to be the case that it was because of the resignation of members that an oral amendment, which was clearly not desired by the house, was imposed simply because there were not enough people to oppose it, in order to avoid the text thus amended orally being unacceptable, we would go back to the original text. i can of course give you precise and detailed information on the above examples if you wish.
let me make one thing clear, ladies and gentlemen, and we shall all agree on that. the rules of the european parliament are not changed on thursday afternoons. they're different on thursday afternoons, and it's our rules that are different. for example, during the debate on thursday afternoon, the catch the eye procedure is two speakers, not five. if there is a request for referral for lack of quorum, the item is not deferred, it is cancelled. oral amendments are also governed by different rules, not rules which are available to the president of the sitting, but rules which are already formally included in our rules of procedure.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission is greatly concerned about recent developments in east jerusalem, in particular the destruction of palestinian-owned houses and the expansion of settlements in east jerusalem. at a time when confidence-building measures are urgently needed to support the negotiation process started in annapolis, such measures are extremely unhelpful. the eu, in its statement of 11 november, called on the israeli authorities to put an early end to such measures. the eu has also, on numerous occasions in recent months, expressed its concern about the decision of the israeli authorities to approve the construction of new settlements in east jerusalem. the creation of facts on the ground undermines the chances for a negotiated settlement of the conflict. jerusalem is one of the so-called final-status issues to be resolved between the parties in negotiations. the commission has provided assistance to help preserve the palestinian presence in east jerusalem and is committed to continuing this support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
obviously, there are not forty members who have stood up to oppose the taking into account of this oral amendment. i shall therefore submit recital b as amended orally.
the case law, i am told, is that when there is an oral amendment on an oral amendment, if the first person who tabled the first oral amendment accepts the second oral amendment as a consensus, that is taken into account. if the second amendment amending the first is not accepted by the first author, it shall not be put to the vote. so, mr. matsakis, i'm sorry, we can't take your case into account. on the other hand, mr tannock's was not rejected because there were not 40 members who stood up, so i am now obliged to submit it.
that was exactly what i was going to suggest. we shall therefore now vote on recital b, as amended by mr tannock's proposal. (the original oral amendment was adopted)
i remind you, mr matsakis, that there is only one way to oppose an oral amendment, and that is to stand up, not to open a debate. i notice that there are not forty colleagues who have stood up.
i regret to have to explain to you once again our voting mechanism. if there is a majority voting against the oral amendment to recital d, we shall return to recital d before the amendment. so if you want to oppose this addition, you have to vote against it. if there is no majority against, recital d shall be deemed to have been adopted as amended orally. the only way for you to blow up the oral amendment that you don't like is to vote against it now because i'm opening the vote. (the original oral amendment was retained)
we are of course taking your statement into account, and it will be recorded in the minutes.
in conclusion to this interesting exchange of views, ladies and gentlemen, i propose that the incidents of this afternoon be passed on to the appropriate bodies so that we can consider what should be done. as for me, this afternoon i have been strictly enforcing, calmly and with the utmost pedagogical care, our existing rules. i think, as several colleagues have already pointed out, that the problem would not arise if our ranks were a little more supplied on thursday afternoons.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, our request is based on a very clear fact known to all. at the end of may an official delegation from our parliament, representing all the political groups, visited israel and the palestinian territories, including gaza. on the basis of its observations on the ground, it adopted a unanimous declaration at the end of the visit. the statement read: 'we strongly feel that without serious signs of good faith translated into tangible improvements on the ground, the time is not yet right to upgrade eu-israel relations'. since then, none of these significant signs have been manifested. that is why we think it would be a very bad signal to vote today in favour of the council's recommendation. my group proposes that we postpone this vote until there are those famous signs in israeli politics and on the ground which the unanimous delegation representing our parliament had called for a few months ago.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have to make very difficult decisions sometimes, and i believe that the debate we have in europe - here in this house - on israel and palestine is always very difficult. when we make decisions, we all really need to keep perspective in mind. it would be fatal if this house voted against a proposal to strengthen ties between israel and the european parliament. it would be fatal to vote against it! but it would also be fatal to vote in favour in a situation which we all know is difficult and unbalanced! i was in israel 14 days ago and i saw for myself that both the israelis and the palestinians are really at the end. it would be fatal to increase the frustration of the israelis by saying no! and it would be equally fatal to increase the frustration of the palestinians by saying yes! so if we're smart, we'll postpone the vote. because we still need to talk, we still need to act. sometimes it is wiser to continue the discussion calmly than to rush emotionally to a decision that will frustrate and disappoint either side. we have a mediating function in europe and we must maintain this mediating function. that is why we are asking for this vote to be postponed. sometimes being smart means waiting.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, next week's european council will focus on the response to the current economic crisis and i would first like to welcome the work of the european commission. since the financial crisis began, it has presented a large number of texts aimed at reforming the global financial architecture. the recovery plan presented last week, which we welcome, is in addition to all these measures and is a suitable tool to respond to our current difficulties. like the commission, we believe that recovery plans must be put in place as quickly as possible, and like the commission, we believe that the key to success is the coordination of these recovery measures. the economic and social cohesion of our countries is the main priority. and to solve our problems in the long term, we need to show both determination and a sense of responsibility. and the commission's proposals to bring together all the political levers available at european and national level to combat this crisis are a good move. our priority must be to do everything we can to prevent the country from entering a downward spiral. we must restore consumer confidence, because it is this that can bring about a rapid change in the situation. i am very sorry that some political families do not share this approach and intend to take advantage of the crisis to try to gain political advantage. the aim of the centre-right, our aim, is not to launch slogans but to restore stability, growth and jobs, that is all. and our aim is to show the europeans that what we must defend at all costs is our model of social market economy, which the world envies and for which we must fight, because it alone can ensure and guarantee our social cohesion. if i was a capitalist, everyone would know! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i would like to ask you to take the opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the measures necessitated by our present problems must not jeopardize our future. we therefore support the commission's approach, which places its action within the framework of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. and this strategy is the best guarantee for preserving our social model and any other strategy would be irresponsible. the adoption of stimulus measures by the member states should not, however, mean that they abandon the structural reforms which are essential for the adjustment of their economies. ladies and gentlemen, the european council will also be devoting a great deal of attention to the energy-climate package, which the french presidency has just made one of its major priorities. negotiations are still ongoing on most of the texts in the package and i call on all the parties to the negotiations to do everything possible to reach a satisfactory agreement. global warming is a reality that the financial crisis, and now the economic crisis, have not changed. the european union must show its global partners the way by adopting a responsible political attitude adapted to the situation of the moment. but it must not give up on the fight against climate change. the fact that we have managed to make progress on one of the texts in the climate and energy package is a very positive sign and it shows that there is a real will to make progress on this issue, and i am delighted about that. i welcome the determination of the presidency of the council, which is sparing no effort to reach an agreement. and i want to express my hope that our irish friends will propose to the european council a realistic and ambitious road map with a timetable for breaking the institutional deadlock. and this crisis shows us that once again. europe must be able to decide more effectively and more democratically. and i also thank the commission for the eastern partnership project which it is going to propose to the council.
author. - mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, president barroso told us a while ago that the time had come for the commission to put pressure on the member states. if that is the commission's strategy, you are welcome here in the european parliament and you will have our full support in implementing such a strategy. the difficulty for us today is the degree of cooperation between the member states. all too often we see a sense of urgency and a juxtaposition of national solutions, which are then dressed in a european hat. we feel that if we want to make the best use of our resources, we have to do things differently. as regards the international financial architecture, the g20 met and set future timetables. when i look at the conclusions of the ecofin council, as they were adopted yesterday, one thing strikes me is that i do not see a mandate for the commission in its conclusions. i would therefore like to know how the council intends to implement its proposals, particularly as regards tackling the non-cooperative nature of certain jurisdictions or defining the role of the imf vis-à-vis the other international financial institutions. i also hope that the council and the commission will tell us what the next steps are, in view of the timetable that has been adopted, and under what conditions the european parliament could be involved in this reflection, because i believe that if we want a european dynamic, this is the way to proceed. as regards the recovery plan, the figure of 1.5% was posted. in view of the figures that have been circulated previously, we must consider this a step in the right direction. will it be enough, will it really be 1.5% or will it be a requalification of some of the expenditure already planned? we shall have to examine this in detail. but as far as the plan itself is concerned, i would like to make three points. the first is that if there is no real coordination within the meaning of the treaty, within the meaning of article 99, which calls on the member states to regard their economic policies as matters of common concern, we will fail. so far, even when i look at the conclusions of yesterday's ecofin council, i am struck by the fact that the method is still missing. the coordination of economic policies in this critical phase cannot be the presentation by the member states of recovery plans discussed only within governments and then an ex post evaluation by the commission. that's not enough. secondly, i am struck by the fact that in this document we do not talk about a prospect of a rebound, which i know is not compatible with the treaty as it stands, but we also do not mention the idea that has been circulating here and there, and i think it is right, of a possible mutualisation of borrowings by the member states of the euro area. if the commission is to be bold, now is the time to launch these lines of thinking. perhaps the council will not support such a proposal at the outset, but here in this european parliament you can, i am almost certain, given your record in this house, get our support and it is worthwhile to move forward in this direction. the third issue is that of jobs and wages. you mentioned earlier the importance of the objective in terms of employment. never forget that it must be quality jobs, otherwise we will not achieve the objectives we set out in our lisbon strategy. finally, let me say a final word about the european investment bank. it is now charged with many tasks, but we must be careful how the banks themselves implement these facilities and tools which are now being offered again because access to smes is through the banking network. we know how frugal the banking system is today, and i would urge you to look at this point closely and i would urge us collectively to take the lessons of the past into account, that is to say, to define public expenditure which is useful for our long-term objectives in a coordinated way, otherwise public expenditure will not be useful.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ministers, commissioner, first of all on the questions, i would say that the questions clearly show that parliament wishes to be kept informed and to be better involved in the process of re-founding the architecture of the financial markets. it is also important, as has been said, that europe should speak with one voice. on the european economic recovery front, of course, and this has been stressed, concerted and coordinated action is essential. we, for our part, support the commission's proposal to bring together all the political levers available at european and national level to combat this crisis. it is a question of restoring the confidence of citizens and therefore of consumers. the right balance must also be found between the long and the short term. the measures taken, particularly in relation to the banking sector, are good in dealing with this financial crisis: capital increase, interbank loan guarantee, deposit insurance. however, it is necessary to be vigilant about the actual achievement of the objective they pursue, namely the restoration of the primary role of banks as providers of liquidity and credit. in short, to finance the real economy. the role of the eib and the ebrd must be strengthened. the eib's reserves are to be used to strengthen its capital base. budgetary structuring is also a good guideline. but what is more important than words is the implementation of the measures envisaged. avoid blowing hot and cold. i am referring here to the public aid in relation to the programmes on banks. i also mention here, as you have just mentioned, the stability and growth pact. we must be aware that our fellow citizens, who in this period of crisis expect europe to provide solutions, should not feel that europe is talking one day and doing the opposite the next. finally, mr minister, as regards the regulation on rating agencies, for which i am the rapporteur in this parliament, every effort will be made to put in place an effective and pragmatic mechanism which not only responds to the current situation but also allows these agencies to operate in a sustainable way.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the council fully recognises the vital importance of taking appropriate measures to improve the situation of the roma and to promote their fundamental rights, as your assembly called for in its resolution of 31 january last. as you know, concrete progress has been made under the french presidency in the areas of non-discrimination and inclusion, and in this context the situation of the roma has been taken into account, particularly in the package on the social agenda, as presented by commissioner špidla on 2 july. the package presented by the commission is intended to give new impetus to policies to combat poverty, exclusion and discrimination affecting the most vulnerable groups, and in this respect the proposals made by the commission and the list of existing instruments which help to include the roma population as much as possible are a very good contribution. the council regretted that all the member states were unable to agree on a package of measures to combat poverty and social exclusion, particularly in financial terms. i also wanted to say that during this debate. the first european summit on roma was held on 16 september. it was supported by the president of the commission and the french presidency of the european union. the adopted declaration underlines the responsibilities of member states for the genuine inclusion of roma, with emphasis on strengthening the individual rights of individuals and the importance of the participation of roma organisations. there was a second equality summit, held on 29 and 30 september 2008, where we focused on the problems that the roma population too often face, whether in terms of access to education, employment, vocational training and access to other goods and services, and it allowed us to see how best to act to combat the discrimination that they are subject to. we also welcome the inclusion of the situation of the roma in the european union and the making of it a priority of the european union agency for fundamental rights. the french presidency has recently drawn up a draft of conclusions which refers to the specific situation of the roma and which will be submitted to the council of foreign ministers and the general affairs and external relations council on monday and tuesday. i'll report to your foreign affairs committee on tuesday. the draft calls on the commission and the member states to take account of the situation of the roma in the design and implementation of policies to defend fundamental rights, in policies to combat poverty and discrimination, in policies on equality between men and women, in policies on access to education, housing, health, employment, justice and culture. in this draft conclusions, we ask that the commission and the member states identify concrete actions for 2009 and 2010. the commission is also proposing to make better use of the structural funds in this connection. the council therefore invited the commission to report to it in 2010 on the progress made and to continue the discussion and to organise the necessary exchanges with roma organisations. that is what i wanted to say to your assembly, mr president, ladies and gentlemen.
member of the commission. − mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the first european roma summit, held in brussels on 16 september, was of fundamental importance for the partnership between all the key players in this field. more than 500 senior representatives from the eu institutions, member states and civil society attended, and it reflected our renewed commitment to step up efforts to tackle social exclusion of roma. he made it clear that the overall objective must be the full participation of roma in the economic, social and cultural life of europe and equal opportunities for everyone in the eu, including roma. civil society must be fully involved in this partnership. this means that roma must be involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of policies that affect them. the commission therefore welcomes the contributions of civil society to the roma summit, such as the statement of the eu roma policy coalition. this year, an unprecedented step forward in the area of roma inclusion was achieved through joint efforts by the eu and member states and cooperation based on mutual trust and goodwill. the commission's main conclusions from the summit were: a commitment to promote the individual rights of roma men, women and children; recognition that promoting roma inclusion is a shared responsibility of the eu and the member states in their respective fields of competence; recognition of the eu's role in supporting member states in implementing their policies through coordination and financial support from the structural funds; consensus that culturally sensitive approaches targeting roma should be promoted, but that they should not exclude other similarly disadvantaged members of society and should seek to mainstream roma in educational, employment and social terms. the commission also made clear at the summit that it would take all necessary steps within its remit to improve the situation of roma and ensure that they could fully enjoy the fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter. in the event of a breach of community law, including fundamental rights, the commission will not hesitate to intervene. following the summit conclusions, president barroso and i proposed the creation of a platform for roma inclusion. this would provide a framework for, for example, high-level bilateral meetings, so that financial instruments supporting cohesion and rural development policies can be better targeted at roma inclusion. in addition, the platform could be a concrete fulfilment of the commission's commitment to make community instruments and policies more effective and to report on the results achieved. following the conclusions of the june european council, member states should now assess the results achieved so far and intensify their efforts to achieve full roma inclusion. the commission will of course support the member states. in addition, the commission looks forward to the general affairs council meeting on 8 december, where draft conclusions on roma inclusion will be discussed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this discussion is a bit hypocritical. we have to call things by their right names. we have a problem with the roma, and that is that they are rejected in most societies, more or less strongly. italy was mentioned, and the czech republic and romania are examples of real pogroms, of racist attacks. in this situation, the european union should do one thing, namely to give the roma the status of a european minority. this means that official recognition is the first step against exclusion. secondly, we must develop a strategy with the roma, but it must have two levers. a strategy for the roma who are settled and a strategy for the roma who are on the move. because you can't make the nomads compulsorily sedentary or send the sedentary on a migration. this is a difficult problem. i was in charge of roma in frankfurt for six years and i know how difficult the daily work is. but the crucial problem is and therefore it is also true what is said about the organization: if we do not build structures with the representatives of roma organisations, we will fail because we will always be talking paternalistically about their problems and not trying to solve their problems with them, including their contradictions. we are talking about schools, for example. but there are roma families who do not want to send their children to school, and others who do want to send them to school. these are different problems. so i also agree that we should stop giving positive water status messages like "we are trying" and "we have programs" and so on, when we know that it's not working. in short: firstly, to recognise the problem more clearly and, secondly, to integrate roma organisations more radically into the process!
author. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our group enthusiastically supports the draft small business act which the commission presented to us last june. certainly, as early as the 2000s, initiatives were taken in favour of smes, and i am thinking in particular of the excellent work of our colleague dominique vlasto on the sme charter. initiatives which were appreciated but considered insufficient because they were too often left to wishful thinking. today we must go further. the serious economic crisis in our countries, the consequences of which are of particular concern to smes, invites us to do so if necessary. in this respect the small business act is part of a new and decidedly voluntarist approach. in a few weeks' time we shall be examining mrs herczog's report on the commission's communication, but today, by submitting this oral question, we have sought to challenge the council. we have read with interest the conclusions adopted yesterday by the competitiveness council and we would like to know whether the european council on 11 and 12 december will pass on its conclusions and give a strong impetus to the rapid transposition of the major guiding principle 'sign small first' into the regulatory framework of the member states. we want the council to commit itself in principle to the action plan annexed to it, with concrete measures. in this connection, and in the short time available to me, i shall stress three areas in which we need compelling impulses. the impact studies which should be systematic, and the regular monitoring, with the control of the european parliament, of the state of the small business act in the member states. access to public procurement. the code of conduct is not binding, we must all be more imaginative, more inventive and propose concrete, appropriate measures which will really open up these markets to smes. finally, access to finance, which is more essential than ever in the present context. your proposals are good, mr minister, but they must also include support for the supply side. it's an emergency. thank you for assuring us of the will of the council.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we all know that smes are the backbone of the european union, since they employ more than 70% of the workforce in the european union and represent 99% of european enterprises. as has already been said, these millions of small and mediumsized enterprises are now worried and threatened by the financial crisis, because it is degrading the purchasing power and confidence of households, impacting order books. it is therefore the cash of smes that is at risk and therefore care must be taken to support their activities by ensuring that banks guarantee effective access to the necessary financing, to the continuity of their operations. this is the whole point of the conclusions of the competitiveness council of 1 december, which the minister referred to, and of the recovery plan approved by the european finance ministers. it is essential to make the needs of smes a permanent political priority of the union and i wanted to welcome the action plan for the small business act for europe. it reflects the desire to ensure the effective application of the guiding principle of giving priority to small businesses, i.e. european smes. however, as the commissioner has said, and as we all say, the council must really engage with the other european institutions if this principle is to be put into effect now, we must go beyond declaration and go to implementation in all european policies and programmes. however, we can say that this action plan is a real response to the urgency of the situation. i would like to thank the french presidency of the union for its willingness to translate intentions into action.
mr president, at the very moment when nicole fontaine was asking the question, the council was giving her the answer. and it's rare enough to highlight that. the competitiveness council 48 hours ago considered and supported the plan proposed by the commission in july, at the very moment when we are discussing it in this parliament. this is an undeniable success of the council under the french presidency and i would like to thank you, mr minister, for this and to say how well you and your colleagues, mr novelli in particular, have worked. this success of the council is all the more remarkable because, in taking the commission's plan into account, you added an action plan, that is to say, the implementation over time, over three, five, ten years, of the principles contained in the commission's plan. i think that what we really need to do now is to give priority to small and mediumsized enterprises in every piece of legislation, in every measure. and we will do it with the european private company, we will do it with the directive on payment deadlines, i hope we will do it through reduced vat rates, etc. but i would just like to say, in conclusion, that small and mediumsized enterprises must not be left in a ghetto, that is to say, that the regulations we make for them become so specific that they end up being a handicap. i agree with what mrs vlasto has just said. it is clear that at the present time, when they are in such great need of finance and when it is so difficult to obtain it, measures should not be taken for them, for example exemptions from accounting guarantees, which weaken their credit and thus prevent them from having all the means to work. therefore, smes are not sub-enterprises. they must be businesses like any other, priorities in the european economy.
mr president, the ultimate stated aim of the small business act is to recognise the essential role played by small and mediumsized enterprises and to support them wholeheartedly in the face of problems which might impede their development. small business, small enterprise, which, as we know, plays a very important and indispensable role in the european economic landscape. this valuable support for the growth of enterprise, the entrepreneurial spirit in europe, is consistent with the principle that the commission has set out: think of smes first. who can argue with such a move? as a result, 99% of all companies are now covered by this ambitious plan. the two most important things don't show up in the company's balance sheet: its reputation and its people. so why do we quote henry ford? the aim is to make life easier for smes, to ensure that employees remain at the heart of the company's approach, and to ensure that the small business act also provides an opportunity to enhance the role of employees in the management of these companies. that the small business act should also be a breath of fresh air for these companies to be better recognized for their place, their aspirations better taken into account and that it should not be, in any case, a small business act low concerning labour law.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - mr president, i will be brief. i would first like to thank mr mitchell and to welcome his work, i would also like to thank the commissioner for his commitment and tell you that the food crisis will not be just a two-year or three-year regulation, but it is something that will have to be dealt with in the years to come. i would like to add a point as a representative of the committee on agriculture. the fact is that for the last 15 years the share of development aid devoted to agriculture has been steadily decreasing. it has gone down, as mr diouf said, from 15% to 4%. it is time to think about the idea that development also involves support for agriculture and if this facility is to have any meaning for the future, that is the meaning i want to give it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, as my colleagues have pointed out, this is a very good initiative, but we hope that it will now begin to be put into practice. i would like to ask you two questions, commissioner. on the one hand, part of the funding for the additional funds would come from a cut in the funds for the stability instrument set up for conflict prevention and peacebuilding. this redeployment seems to me to be extremely problematic. is it confirmed? and if so, are there any compensations to consider? i think you will also be aware of the longevity of this instrument of instability. secondly, now that this billion seems to have been raised, what channels will it have to go through to ensure that the funds reach the many and scattered actors on the ground and the hundreds of family farming groups quickly and efficiently? how do you intend to deal directly with these actors on the ground, avoiding the waste and waste that we know well, linked to multiple intermediaries?
in writing. i support this initiative, which gives the european union a new instrument for its development policy in the face of the crucial problems of rising food prices, which have caused riots, unrest and instability in several countries, undermining the results of many years of investment in the political, development and peacekeeping spheres. hundreds of millions of people have seen their poverty worsen. progress in achieving the millennium development goals is being questioned. the union plans to finance 10% of the 18 billion needed, or 1.8 billion, and because of the funding already available, an additional €1 billion is needed. but i do not agree with the european commission's proposal to use the funds earmarked for agriculture and i hope that the council will oppose it and find a compromise on this funding. politically it would be disastrous if, through financial arrangements or worse, through the use of symbols, european citizens were to feel that our development policy, particularly the problems of hunger, is being pursued at the expense of the common agricultural policy, which is another matter.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr jean-louis borloo, commissioners piebalgs and dimas,ladies and gentlemen,this morning our debate is devoted to what has become the common name of the 'energy-climate' package, a political package around a key objective agreed by the leaders of the 27 countries in march 2007. there are many interconnections between these five texts, which is why they must be worked on as a coherent policy package. the simultaneous examination of these texts is a challenge and a considerable amount of work for each of our institutions. i would like to thank all those involved and especially the presidency and jean-louis borloo's team for their efforts. this was a difficult job before the financial crisis. it is extremely difficult now, because of the economic and social tensions which are experienced with the greatest anxiety by the citizens in their daily lives. and yet, in this difficult and serious context, we must not allow ourselves to fail. we have a duty to give ourselves every chance to succeed. however, it is not a question of imposing but of convincing and agreeing to the efforts which will make it possible to reach balanced and future-oriented decisions. we need to seize an historic opportunity to reverse the trend of climate change, we need to take the turn that will avoid going straight into the wall. combating climate change and promoting eco-innovation will also help to revive the european economic and industrial machine in the medium term. it is also about planning our investments today to preserve the jobs of tomorrow, and that is why we must win the support of our citizens. the epp-ed group is working hard on the energy and climate package, with the conviction that it is an unavoidable structural policy and, above all, with the feeling that it is a historic policy and therefore a huge responsibility towards future generations. one of the five proposals, the regulation on co2 emissions from cars, was concluded this week. for our group, for the centre-right, this is a strong political signal and an encouragement to continue our work. however, the balance of the whole is at stake and we will be called upon to vote on this at the next plenary session. our job is to listen to each other and make the necessary effort to put in place the conditions for a compromise. but our main task is to reassure citizens about their future and to ensure that their support prevails over the medium-term strategic european options. i think i can say that with the goodwill that is in us, we are giving ourselves a chance of success for the two essential meetings in poznan in a few days' time and in copenhagen next year.
ladies and gentlemen, i have a little technical announcement to make. you know that parliament has chosen to wait for the council plane to land before starting this important debate, which means that we have a big gap in our timetable, but we also have the courtesy of respecting our commitments to our guests. you know that at 11:30 we are expecting the dalai lama in this chamber. of course, we'll have the formal sitting at 11.30. that means that the debate we are having at the moment will certainly not be able to end at 11.30 a.m. so the last speakers will have to speak after the formal sitting, which will postpone the voting session even further. all of this will, of course, be shown on your screens. i now call on the speakers to respect their speaking time strictly.
mr president, europe was a pioneer and it wants to remain the bridgehead in copenhagen. of course, the world is watching us, watching us, today, but it's also looking to the obama administration. and it is true that we can ask ourselves whether he is not doing better because here we continue to negotiate, we negotiate with polluters and we leave the negotiation of the climate-energy package in the hands of the member states. personally, i don't have that much faith. we've been sounding the alarm for a long time, but to no avail. and across the atlantic, the biggest emitter is saying that by 2020 they will be back to 90 percent, which is a 60 percent reduction for them. and they're showing 100% bidding directly. i ask you to find the mistake! of course, we welcome the considerable efforts, although we know full well that we are far short of what the ipcc scientists require. across the atlantic, trade unions are supporting the shift to a low-carbon economy. this should really inspire our industrialists, who are concerned about using the ecological, financial and economic crises to lay off workers, after years of profits not being redistributed to employees, after years of negotiating voluntary agreements on pollution, which have been so many failures.
mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate the french presidency on the energy it is putting into the implementation of this climate package. but then, just as we were talking about the challenge of climate change, the financial crisis came to the negotiating table! the economic crisis and the shrinking resources of raw materials must allow us to make a genuine and sustainable industrial revolution. so yes to three times 20 percent. yes to clean engines. yes to renewable energy with an energy mix. but not carbon leakage, not offshoring. so we need to support research, innovation, and help our businesses and our economy make this transition as painless as possible. i would like to thank the commission for its work on the co2 agreement for cars, although i think that the modulation of penalties is still not enough. on the ccs, we are waiting for the agreement on the financing. it is essential to find a fair and realistic way forward on emission quotas. the introduction of quantified thresholds seems to me to be a positive step. but we know there's still a lot of work to be done. the first reading agreement is essential. our companies, our industries are waiting to be fixed on the commitments to come. they need to plan their investments. what would we say about the european union if it did not reach an agreement by the end of the year? the european union which wants to be so exemplary in the fight against climate change, the european union which is so ambitious in the fight against climate change! i cannot imagine the absurdity of the situation of a europe which is unable to agree and which would nevertheless like to prove that it is right next year in copenhagen. so good luck to the french presidency and congratulations again on the job done.
we are now returning to the state of play of the negotiations on the climate and energy package.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
(applause from the centre and the right) madam president, at a plenary session - rule 202a of our rules of procedure - we voted for the provision that the european anthem is played at formal sittings. i'd like to know, madam president, why the anthem was not played when we honored his holiness the dalai lama.
i will ask the question and you will have the answer, mr. member.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my polish colleague genowefa grabowska, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters of maintenance obligations in the context of a reconsultation procedure. i support the rapporteur who has done everything possible to ensure that the final text is available before the end of the year so that european citizens can benefit from it as soon as possible and i share his view that the commission must continue to work on the implementation procedures.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my irish colleague gay mitchell, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a rapid response facility to food price increases in developing countries. i support this initiative, which will give the european union a new instrument for its development policy in the face of the crucial problems of rising food prices, which have caused riots, unrest and instability in several countries, undermining the results of many years of investment in the political, development and peacekeeping spheres. hundreds of millions of people have seen their poverty worsen and recent progress towards the millennium development goals is being called into question. the eu is planning to finance 10% of the €18 billion needed; the commission has already allocated eur 1.8 billion to the programme, and, given the funding already available, an additional eur 1 billion is in question. i do not agree with the committee's attempt to draw funds from the funds reserved for agriculture.
in writing. in his explanatory statement, with tremolo in his handwriting, the rapporteur urges the european union to give the rest of the world the unused resources of its budget! a singular and dangerous vision of the management of public money, accompanied by threats and guilt! we did not need to go to these extremes to convince ourselves that we should help the countries that needed it most. but i would like to emphasize three points: - the world food price surge affects the people of the third world more particularly, but it also affects millions of citizens of the european union! what is the commission doing for them? - is it really necessary to entrust the management of this emergency aid to the commission, which is largely responsible for this situation? it is the origin of agricultural malthusianism in europe, which contributes to higher prices; the european union's trade policies are favouring export crops in poor countries. in the same context, with market and free trade priorities, the proposed measures to support local farms seem doomed to failure. - what is being done to combat the aberrant and immoral speculation which prevails in the markets for food commodities?
in writing. on the basis of the report by my distinguished spanish colleague josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending the 2006 proposal on the common system of value added tax to combat tax evasion in intra-community transactions. at present, the system for the exchange of information on intra-community supplies of goods established under the transitional vat arrangements adopted on the occasion of the transition to the internal market is no longer sufficient to deal effectively with tax evasion linked to intra-community transactions. it should be noted that the measure is part of a package of measures, some of which are explicitly aimed at increasing legal certainty for companies and reducing their administrative burdens, as well as significantly improving the exchange of information and cooperation between tax administrations. i supported the amendments that two years after the directive enters into force the commission should draw up a report assessing the effects of the directive, particularly on the administrative costs of the new obligations for the taxable persons concerned and on the degree of effectiveness of these obligations in the fight against tax fraud.
in writing. we voted against the two reports by mr garcía-margallo y marfil on the 'fight against tax fraud in intra-community transactions', that is to say, in plain english, vat fraud in trade between member states. of course we condemn this fraud and support intergovernmental cooperation between the national services concerned. but the rapporteur's proposal goes much further, with the creation of a single 'european tax base' available to national administrations to gather information on those who have been involved in fraud in one way or another and to prohibit them from setting up or running a business anywhere in europe. in what name? is it a judicial, administrative or arbitrary decision? what's the level of the shot? on the basis of what powers - defined or not in this case - by the treaties? the supremacy of the european level, the self-assignment of quasi-criminal powers, the oversized executive role of the european commission, the increase in the bureaucratic burden on companies at a time when we are talking about a 'small business act' in the european style ...: all this does not suit us.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my distinguished spanish colleague josé manuel garcia-margallo y marfil, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1798/2003 with a view to combating tax fraud in connection with intra-community transactions. the commission will have to centrise information on the actions taken by member states to combat fraud, disclose those which have produced the best results and propose the measures it deems most appropriate to remedy fraudulent behaviour. the commission will develop a set of indicators to distinguish the areas where the risk of tax evasion is highest. national tax administrations must be inspired by the need to tackle fraud and help honest taxpayers to meet their obligations. on the basis of the data collected for the evaluation of the functioning of the regulation, the commission will have to establish a set of indicators to determine the extent to which each member state will cooperate with the commission and with the other member states, providing them with the available information and the necessary assistance to remedy fraud. the member states and the commission will have to periodically assess the application of the regulation.
in writing. having voted on the joint resolution tabled by four political groups, including the epp-de, on measures to improve the environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the small business act (sba) for europe, i would like to commend the immense work done by my french colleague nicole fontaine and the french presidency with minister christine lagarde. it is becoming urgent that member states confirm their intention to formally endorse the sba at the brussels european council in december 2008 in order to ensure its necessary visibility while making its provisions legally binding, in order to allow for a real positive effect on the sme environment. smes are at the heart of a very important part of the economic fabric and have an undeniable social vocation to be human-sized enterprises. but they are fragile and deserve special attention. in the interests of the european union's wealth-producing system, it is imperative that smes be supported.
in writing. we voted in favour of the resolution on improving the environment for smes under the small business act. because we are aware, and we have been saying this for years, of the crucial economic role of smes, the main creators of wealth and jobs. the problem is that all of this is still in the virtual realm today. it is the same institution, the commission, which calls on the states to 'think of small businesses first', but which multiplies the cumbersome and incomprehensible legislation and the administrative and regulatory constraints. it is the commission which, despite its duty, fails to carry out the impact studies which must accompany its legislative proposals. it is the commission which has put in place the policy of access to public contracts which leads to the systematic ousting of local smes in favour of large european companies, in the name of sacrosanct competition. it was the commission, obsessed with tax harmonization, which imposed the present constraints on vat rates. yes, it is time to finally give priority to all these small businesses, their managers and employees, and to think about this first and foremost in european regulations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution tabled by six political groups on the eu code of conduct on arms exports. i agree with the principles of preventing irresponsible arms exports by strict application of the code criteria to both businesses and national armed forces, and of preventing illegal arms trafficking by inviting those member states which have not yet done so to transpose the 2003 eu common position on arms control into their national legislation. we must encourage investigations into violations of arms embargoes and improve the quality of the data provided by member states in the annual report on the code of conduct. that said, let us not be naive and in the complex and dangerous world in which we live, these issues are sensitive and that is why i have stood up to oppose the oral amendment by my colleague mr pflüger which, in my view, links too quickly the code of conduct with the implementation of the future directive on intra-community exports of defence equipment and the control of arms exports.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my belgian colleague bart staes on the european court of auditors' special report no 8/2007 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax (vat). while the court's special report is to be welcomed, its conclusions are worrying in many respects, particularly in the light of the findings that regulation (ec) no 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of vat is not an effective instrument for administrative cooperation given that several member states impede its implementation and that the commission's role is limited but it is imperative that the commission initiates infringement proceedings against the member state which delays the transmission of information. the commission's proposals for amending the vat directive and the regulation on administrative cooperation on vat are a good thing. i support the creation of a task force composed of the relevant commission services, the dg taxation and customs union and the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.50 p.m.)
mr president, madam president-in-office, commissioner, i give my full support to the rapporteur, who defends the position which we adopted at first reading, a position which was rejected by the governments of the member states. it was urgent to bring our legislation on custody into line with the case law of the court of justice, and that is done. the cercas report provides balanced and protective responses for employees. all time spent in custody is counted as working time. the compensatory rest period shall begin immediately after the period of service. it is a matter of common sense to ensure decent working conditions, especially for the medical professions. but the reform of the working time directive also gives us an opportunity to advance our european social law by abolishing the individual opt-out. the cercas report seizes this opportunity and proposes a gradual abolition of any possibility of derogating from the legal maximum working time. you have to face reality. it is a joke to say that the employee is in a position of equality with his employer and can refuse what is offered to him. we must make it clear to the governments of the member states that the text they want to impose on us is unacceptable. and in the concert of praise which will certainly be playing into the ears of the french government as soon as tomorrow, it seems to me necessary to take an interest first and foremost in the employees who will be called upon to work more and more, without really having a choice, and this is like all those who will be asked tomorrow to work on sunday in france. it is also obviously to open up this possibility that the french government has changed its view on individual opt-outs in the council. ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the workers and try to answer their call if we do not want the negative votes in the french, dutch and irish referendums to be followed by many others, calling into question a european union which would give them the feeling that it is not dealing with their daily problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate my friend alejandro cercas on the remarkable work he has done as rapporteur for this text, which is therefore, on second reading, in favour of a surprising compromise reached by the council in june this year. the belgian, cypriot, hungarian and spanish governments have refused to do so, and they have done well, because it is in the direction of greater flexibility, and this at the expense of the safety of the workers, which is unacceptable. do you really believe that in the face of widespread technical unemployment and the growing number of layoffs across the european continent, do you think that employers need to be able to impose 65 hours a week or more on an employee? a little coherence would be to the credit of the european union. we are currently subsidizing entire sectors of industry to avoid redundancies, and we are right to do so. but let us also try to protect employees in their jobs, while they are still in the company or in their administrations. at a time when citizens are doubting europe - and this was mentioned earlier - the council's compromise, if accepted by parliament, would be the worst of messages. this directive should set a maximum weekly working limit for health and safety reasons. it cannot be a directive of social and human caste. that is what our rapporteur is advocating with the european trade union confederation and that is what i will also be advocating with him.
in writing. for more than three years now, the working time directive has been the subject of a tug of war between the council and the european parliament. the agreement reached by the 27 eu labour ministers provides for a maximum working week of 48 hours, but with the possibility of derogating in certain cases for up to 65 hours per week. such a solution is unacceptable and as a socialist i have to make the concerns of millions of workers known and to fight so that this maximum of 48 hours is not subject to any exceptions, but also so that guard hours are taken into account in the calculation of these hours. i shall therefore vote in favour of the cercas report, hoping that if there is conciliation we will reach a text which achieves a real balance between the protection of workers and the optimisation of work organisation. we european socialists will in any case continue to defend the workers, because europe needs more than ever a social model that meets the needs of the most vulnerable citizens, and in particular those who are most affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, mr president, the agreement reached with the council on works councils proves that the social europe so necessary is being built brick by brick. it also shows that in this social europe under construction, social dialogue has found its mark. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current directive had clearly reached its limits since, 14 years after its adoption, committees had been set up in only one third of the undertakings concerned and legal uncertainties led the court of justice to intervene on several occasions. it is not the judges who should set the rules, but the politicians who should take responsibility. in addition, recent events have been a painful reminder that consultation of works councils is becoming increasingly vital, as far in advance as possible in the event of restructuring. we must therefore go ahead and support the agreement at first reading, having thanked the rapporteur for the quality of his work and for his attention.
madam president, mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr bushill-matthews, who has given us a great lesson in democracy by being the bearer of the message of the employment committee during the trilogue. today, the trilogue took place. the partners tried to come to an agreement. and i would also like to congratulate you, commissioner, because at one point you managed to make the role of the co-legislator that parliament is a little denied, since by an agreement between the social partners you have obliged us to consider that only the points they have raised could be discussed between us. today, what is important is to make this trilogue a success. this trilogue has taken place and we are now in a position to ensure that this text is adopted at first reading. but that should not mean that we should withdraw the revision, and that should not mean that we should stop thinking about how we can achieve a complete revision, supported by the social partners or almost all of them. i think that is the spirit in which we should act. of course, tomorrow, at the first reading, we must win the case, but it is also clear that we must look at how all this is being implemented and how we can make sure that a review can take place.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, two main factors have led the european union to review its legislation on the safety of toys: the large quantities of toys recalled a year ago which posed safety problems and studies demonstrating the impact of chemicals on children's health. unfortunately, the legislation we are being asked to adopt today is not up to the challenge and i do not share the enthusiasm of the previous speakers. i regret that we have not been more demanding on several points, and first of all on the presence of chemicals and fragrances that cause allergies. as i said, children are among the most vulnerable populations and their developing bodies are fragile. the various chemical standards do not take this into account. why have we only partially banned cmrs? why didn't you ban endocrine disruptors? why did you agree to so many waivers? i also regret the reintroduction of heavy metals. i cannot understand why cadmium or lead is banned in certain products and allowed in toys, when we know how children use them. secondly, market surveillance. the precautionary principle as introduced in the directive applies to the member states, but what does it really mean for manufacturers? another problem is that consumer information must be in a language or languages easily understood by the consumer, but it is not clear whether the consumer will be able to be informed in his mother tongue or in the language of his country. why have we been so vague about the measures for re-entry or recall with provisions that are not suited to emergency situations? why did you refuse to have an independent third party carry out the certification with the manufacturers? the committee on the environment had voted amendments which took greater account of the safety and health of children. i regret that it was not followed up more closely.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to emphasize in this case how much the community institutions have the capacity to react in order to solve the problems of our fellow citizens effectively. in the summer of 2007 a number of scandals occurred. parliament has asked for action to be taken. the commission has worked and today we are able to adopt this directive on the safety of toys, which is a considerable step forward. of course, we owe this, first of all, and it must be stressed, to our rapporteur and to the work that has been done to reconcile positions which were initially contradictory. today we have an effective and balanced text which, for example, will allow, as the commission has just undertaken, a review of the standard applicable to children's books and which deals, with a great deal of balance, with fragrances in a number of toys. this is the very example of legislation by europeans for europeans, and it must be said that this parliament has played a decisive role in this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 december 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by heide rühle, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive simplifying the conditions for transfers of defence-related products within the community (com (2007) 0765 - c6-0468/2007 - 2007/0279 (cod)) (a6-0410/2008).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i very much welcome the adoption of this draft directive, because it is the first time that a community instrument will simplify transfers between member states in a highly sensitive area, that of defence products. this is a real breakthrough for the internal market in defence equipment. we owe it both to the work of parliament, in particular our rapporteur, heide rühle, and to the efforts made by the council and the commission since we have been discussing, since we have been voting in the committee on the internal market for a month. this text has a double objective: an industrial policy objective, which is excellent for the armaments industries in europe, and an internal market objective which is to facilitate the circulation of these products while taking account of their specificities. we have indeed found a balance which ensures that the security interests of the member states will be safeguarded, since reference is still made to articles 30 and 296 of the treaty, and that the member states will be able to continue the intergovernmental cooperation which is in progress, such as the letter of intent. this text considerably increases mutual trust between member states in the field of transfers, through the certification and development of general and global licences. exports to third countries are very clearly excluded from this text and the first pillar, which relates to the internal market, is clearly distinguished from the second pillar. and i think that this directive should be particularly welcomed because at the same time, last week, on 8 december, the council adopted the common position on the code of conduct and made this code of conduct, which had been in abeyance for three years, binding. that was a request from parliament and it has now been granted. in the same way, this text is part of a revival of the european security and defence policy, which the european council just decided on friday, and, for example, we will be able to achieve this famous target of 60,000 men in 60 days. as you can see, we are doing both the right economy and the right foreign policy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, as my colleague jan olbrycht has just said, this is a first - we hope so - simplification. it is perhaps christmas eve that inspires us to make this progress, this gift to the europeans. but, as jan has just said, we hope above all that this gift will not be unique and that in march next we will have to decide on the recovery plan so that, in the face of the financial crisis, we will have more productive initiatives for a recovery at european level. in these projects, which we will have to vote on in march, we are convinced that the commission will propose new simplification tools, particularly for our 'small players', in particular smes. it is absolutely essential because if the policies we are discussing, on which we have been working for months and years, are to have a genuinely effective effect, this will, this dynamism which we want, must not be thwarted by administrative aspects which are discouraging. commissioner, you have just mentioned the good work that has been done with parliament's regi committee in particular. you know that we members of parliament are keen to work well with the commission. and that is why i want to reiterate our hope that we will make very firm progress in the coming year towards further simplifications. but beyond the work we are doing, we at european level would like the member states, through you and the commission in particular, to take their share of the responsibility. we all know that in the case of the erdf, the esf, the cap and so on, it is the member states that add to the complexity of our own european administrative complexities. through our speech, through our debate this evening, we hope not only that the european union's initiative will have an impact at its level, but also that at the level of the member states we will be heard and that they too will simplify in a particularly clear way.
it is not for me, mr president, to confirm anything, and i would remind you that this is not the time when parliament is debating this matter. but i am sure you will intervene in good time to call the appropriate bodies to account on this matter.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the agreement reached in first reading on the last of our four proposals on the alignment of existing legislative acts in the new comitology procedure with scrutiny. in the framework of this agreement, the commission would like to make two statements, the text of which i will hand over to your services in order to include them in the record of this sitting. the first statement concerns a commitment of the commission concerning the transmission of draft measures to the european parliament when the time limits have been curtailed, and the second statement relates to the application of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny as regards the procedural rules for the updating of the community blacklist of air carriers subject to an operating ban. commission statements transmission of draft measures to the european parliament the time-limits within which the european parliament and the council may oppose a draft measure, according to article 5a(3)(c) of council decision 1999/468/ec, have been curtailed to four weeks or one month, in some provisions of the following basic acts: directive 2004/17/ec, directive 2004/18/ec and regulation (ec) no 2111/2005. when transmitting draft measures to the european parliament and to the council in application of those provisions, the commission commits itself, except during the european parliament’s periods of recess, to take into account the necessity for the european parliament to hold a plenary session before the expiration of the relevant curtailed time-limits, and reiterates its commitments under the agreement between the european parliament and the commission on procedures for implementing council decision 1999/468/ec, as amended by decision 2006/512/ec, in particular in respect of the early warning system provided for in paragraph 16 thereof. application de la procédure de réglementation la commission prend note avec regret de la décision d’appliquer la prac à l’article 8.1 du règlement 2111/2005. elle tient à souligner à cet égard que les règles de mise en œuvre auxquelles il est fait référence sont de nature procédurale et administrative et détaillent les règles déjà contenues dans l’acte de base. la commission rappelle l’importance de garantir le plus haut niveau de sécurité aérienne. pour atteindre cet objectif, elle se base sur des critères stricts, internationalement reconnus, appliqués de façon objective. ceci a toujours été le cas lors des mises à jour de la liste noire qui ont eu lieu depuis que le règlement 2111/2005 est entré en vigueur. la commission considère qu’il faut poursuivre le travail dans ce dossier exclusivement sur base de critères techniques. la commission estime par conséquent que les règles de procédure doivent en tout état de cause continuer à garantir un niveau élevé de sécurité et d’efficacité.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission is pleased that an agreement has been reached between the institutions on a joint text for a statute for parliamentary assistants. on behalf of the commission, i can confirm today our agreement on this text, which preserves the full substance of our initial proposal. the commission prepared this proposal in response to a request from the european parliament to the commission in a letter from president pöttering to president barroso. only eight months after this request, you have now endorsed the result of the very constructive discussions between parliament, the council and the commission. with this proposal, for the third time in 10 years, the commission took the initiative of addressing the issue of a statute, and we firmly believe that this time we will succeed. we now have to use this window of opportunity. therefore, i also give a commitment on behalf of the commission to defend this text until its final approval by the council. (applause)
i think, mrs wallström, that parliament can only appreciate your statement. we shall now proceed to a roll-call vote which will close a case which has been in progress for almost thirty years. let me enjoy this moment. - after the vote.
thank you very much, mr. gargani. let me also congratulate martine roure, because it is a team effort, on the excellent work she has done in the working group, chairing it with great determination. i would like to add to this thanks, of course, to our secretary-general, who has been a formidable negotiator in this matter - and without his determination, nothing would have been possible - but also to the four previous presidents of the european parliament, mr pöttering, who wanted to close this dossier, mr borrell, who had made it possible to take a decisive step with the adoption of the codex, mr pat cox, who had made it possible to decouple the various statutes, and, of course, nicole fontaine, who gave the go-ahead, almost ten years ago, so that we can finally have this report today.
thank you all, i believe our new statute will serve as an example to many parliaments around the world.
mr president, this is indeed a historic day for our parliament. we've been working hard. i'd even say it's a case from over 15 years ago. you know the story well, since you yourself chaired a working party which considered that the status of assistants was something important. for us, it's the culmination of a lot of hard work. as you have said, the other presidents who preceded mr pöttering all made a major contribution to this outcome. i actually thanked nicole fontaine earlier when i met her on the stairs. but i must also say that i would like to thank the working group in which you yourself participated. in this working party we had mr friedrich, mrs lulling, mr nicholson, mrs de vits, mrs wallis - i may have forgotten some - and i want to say that there was a lot of solidarity in this working party, which is why we have come to this. i would also like to congratulate the legal affairs committee, which has taken up the challenge and worked with urgency, and i thank it very much.
since there was no debate, our rules say there are no oral explanations. so you have two options: either you send us your statement in writing or, as we have very little time left, you give it orally and it will be transcribed. then you can do it orally.
in writing. on the basis of the report by my belgian colleague gérard deprez, i voted in favour of the draft council regulation amending the 2001 regulation laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, as amended by the council. the need to adopt binding legislation making the verification of the authenticity of euro banknotes and coins in circulation by credit institutions, which was underlined by both national experts and the community institutions, made it urgent to act. i support this draft regulation which provides for the obligation for credit and other institutions concerned to verify the authenticity of euro banknotes and coins received before putting them back into circulation, in accordance with the procedures set out respectively by the ecb for euro banknotes and by the commission for euro coins. it should be noted that the changes will apply automatically to member states outside the euro area; and that's an excellent point.
in writing. in coastal regions, particularly in the outermost regions, tourism, often the main economic activity, can have negative effects due to seasonality and lack of skills, low integration between the coast and the interior, low economic diversification and the impoverishment of natural and cultural heritage. solutions exist, in the form of the following actions. combating seasonality by offering alternative forms of tourism (business, cultural, medical, sporting, rural) while protecting coastal heritage. to seek an integrated approach between coastal tourism and the community's cohesion, maritime, fisheries, environmental, transport and energy policies, in order to create synergies and reinforce the coherence of projects. improve the quality of infrastructure by facilitating accessibility outside the peak season, while combating the effects of climate change by developing sustainable local public transport. to improve the quality of service by improving vocational training and to promote a tourist offer that responds to market developments in order to distinguish itself from the competition. promote new tourist destinations, including the outermost regions, and make coastal tourism the main focus of the european maritime day (20 may) or the 'european destinations of excellence' project.
in writing. whether traditional or new, media play an important role in our daily lives. in view of this, european citizens should be able to understand, analyse and evaluate the flood of information and images they receive so that they can make the best use of them. these skills are all the more necessary now that the use of the internet has become widespread and the consumer is no longer a mere spectator but is increasingly becoming an actor in this process. the report before us, which i personally support, is part of this context. it reflects the political will to act to safeguard the rights and freedoms of everyone in the digital environment. including all citizens, especially the youngest, this report advocates the establishment of a high level of media literacy. it aims at training adapted to each type of media, while reaffirming the right of access to information and communication technologies for all. it promotes quality training that emphasises a responsible attitude and respect for intellectual property rights. furthermore, as it contributes to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, media education is an indispensable asset for the development of an active and conscious citizenship.
in writing. the europeists see the use of labour and settlement immigration as the miracle solution to the problems of labour shortages and the low birth rates in all member states. this madness is an admission of impotence. the present europe offers nothing to meet the challenges it faces. the new europe must instead promote an economic and social policy of protection and national and community preferences, a family and natalist policy, a foreign policy of development aid to third countries in order to enable these countries, which are the source of massive emigration, to fix their populations by significantly improving their living standards. the european training foundation is an agency of the european union whose purpose is to contribute to the development of education and training systems in the union's partner countries. this would be highly commendable if it did not actually consist in preparing these non-european countries for their access to the european labour market. we do not want any more immigration from third countries, or even from non-european candidate countries such as turkey, an asian and muslim country which we refuse to accept into the european union.
in writing. if there is one area where cooperation between the member states of the european union is important and must be supported by all our efforts, it is the area of justice and the police. the recent results of the franco-belgian joint investigation team, which after months of surveillance has succeeded in arresting 16 young jihadist fanatics and dismantling an islamist terrorist network based in brussels, are proof of the need for cooperation between the police forces of europe. we all know that organized crime, corruption, drug trafficking and terrorism know no borders. the member states of the union have already been cooperating in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation for several years. the european union is proud to be taking the lead and is seeking to establish this type of relationship under its own auspices within a european judicial network organized around national contact points. we are in favour of cooperation and we remain so. and we support this initiative on the condition that the member states are not dispossessed of their legitimate powers to rule in favour of a new european bureaucratic entity.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the council presidency on the remarkable work it has done over the last six months. mr president, in a short time you have succeeded in creating a genuine political europe, a europe that has stood up to russia, that has made the g20 meeting possible, a europe that is now a respected and listened to player in the reform of the global financial architecture, and a europe that has a pragmatic and ambitious immigration policy. a europe that finally agrees on the modalities of a coordinated response to the economic crisis and takes the lead in international negotiations on the fight against climate change. mr president, the record of your presidency illustrates the very concept of political action which the centre-right has always defended. what our citizens expect are concrete actions, pragmatic and rational solutions from leaders who know how to keep their cool. this is what the european commission, the european parliament and the council have been able to do together under the auspices of the french presidency. in the face of the financial crisis, the policy of guaranteeing bank deposits, recapitalising risky institutions and injecting liquidity to boost credit, all in a coordinated way, has helped to avoid chain reactions and thousands of job losses in europe. the last few months have shown that only a united and strong europe can provide answers to a challenge such as the financial and economic crisis, and the last few months have shown that only our model of society, the social market economy, can guarantee a good balance between employees and entrepreneurs, allow everyone to enjoy the fruits of their labour, to achieve their ambitions without unnecessary burdens or obstacles, and to ensure true solidarity. this is the model of society which we, the centre-right political family, intend to continue to build. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the outcome of the european council on the climate and energy package, a result which makes europe the pioneer in this field and shows that we can reach agreement at 27 with unanimity on such a complex issue in record time. the package adopted by the council on friday and the trilogue on saturday reconciles the urgency of the climate challenge with the defence of our economic and social interests. we are coming to the end of a long negotiation process, and i would like to congratulate all the parties involved, and in particular those in parliament from my political group. there is no winner or loser, there is agreement between the three institutions, and the european union has shown its ability to take the lead in this fight against climate change. it must also reap the benefits by intensifying its research efforts and promoting innovation and new technologies. we must also encourage our trading partners, including the emerging countries, which are among the main polluters, to take responsibility. we are waiting for tangible evidence of this from the next obama administration. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these turbulent times, it is clear that europe needs more political stability and more effective decisionmaking. yes, we have made progress in recent months despite the unanimity, but there is no indication that we can easily repeat this success. and the members of my group call on every country, on every citizen consulted, to take responsibility and to take a fully informed decision on ratification of the lisbon treaty. we ask them to distinguish between easy slogans and reality, between populism and responsibility. what do our fellow citizens want? do they want a climate plan they can be proud of, a social model they can pass on to their children, or do they want demagogic proposals that will only waste their time? asking the question is answering it. saying 'yes' to the lisbon treaty means giving ourselves the means to achieve our ambitions. i would like to conclude by thanking the french presidency once again for its political work, and i expect the next presidency to show the same commitment. that's the wish for 2009. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president, we recognize your willingness to take action, your desire to move europe forward. only i, as we have had several nicolas here, i, i am for nicolas the first, nicolas the first declared to us here, in july 2008, before astonished parliamentarians, "unanimity kills democracy". that was the speech of nicholas the first, july 2008, to the european parliament! nicholas the first was right, nicholas the third is wrong! and that's my problem with the french presidency. it's a spin that at one time says something that's true, and at another time says something that's false, and when you do a post-mortem, well i say, i take everything that's true, and i leave to the spin everything that didn't work. because we have something that makes us different. you are reducing the european parliament to a viagra for governments. it's not our place to be used to make others do what they don't want to do. and nobody here has said that we want to make a europe against the nations, nobody has said that. the community institutions are precisely a europe of nations and peoples, and we here represent the peoples. you want to ratify the treaty of lisbon, and the treaty of lisbon is precisely to reduce the chances of unanimity. why would you do that? because unanimity kills democracy, and if we continue in this way, we kill our chances of making european policy. of course, you are right that presidents should experiment, but mrs merkel, who was president here, this climate chancellor, once she became only chancellor of germany, she put herself under the thumb of german industry and not the european interest. that is what you have been faced with in the european council! and you had to make a compromise of each other's national egoism, a compromise that we will judge, that we will judge in a certain way. what is good, we will vote for, and what is not good, we will vote against, and we do not accept blackmail. yes, i think the first reading is blackmail because the democratic process of a parliament is to take, contradict and go back to negotiations. that is why, even on the climate package, i have my doubts about the regulations at first reading. and so, and so..., i know you like the french song, but so really, your duo françoise hardy and "hand in hand, and eyes in eyes, they go in love without fear of the next day", sarkozy and barroso, to others! to others, not to us, because what have you done? you reduce the commission to a secretariat for the council. that is what mr barroso's commission has been for, and nothing else! yes, gentlemen, we have elections coming up and we'll be talking about these issues, how you, on either side, are lying to your governments. it is not our role here in parliament to lie down in front of our national parties, but to defend the european interest, the community interest and not the national interests. that's what i was going to say, right and left. on the climate package, we were strong, we were leading, and it's true that even if it was insufficient as we were told at the time, the 3x20s, it was just. but we've gone from the three-by-four to the legitimacy of the four-by-four economy. this is where we landed after the climate package. why would you do that? well, i'll tell you what. because in the recovery plan, as you imagined it... and it is not your fault, i am not saying that, because there are things that even you cannot do, mr sarkozy! even you can't do that! and for example, against german economic nationalism, you failed. you and mr barroso are telling us that it is 1.5% of gdp, but everyone knows that mr obama's plan is to give 3 to 4% of gdp to environmental and economic recovery. and we're not going to make it. you know what he's going to say to you, mr. obama, he's going to say to you, "no, you cannot, you are not able, it is not enough", as mr. krugman said to mr. steinbrück, a nobel prize, he is nobel prize in economics mr. krugman, if it were me, you would say he doesn't understand anything well, even mr. krugman said it. and one last thing. it is not enough, as i said, to have an ecological recovery plan because we are not putting enough into it. it is not your fault alone, and it is not a european plan. but now i would like to say this. a week ago, the great dissident, liu xiaobo, was arrested in beijing. we saw your policy towards china, here you told us, you must not humiliate the chinese. you didn't humiliate the chinese, the chinese humiliated you! it was the chinese who stepped on you! afterwards, you told us, ah but no one will stop me from seeing the dalai lama in gdansk again. well, no, you won't. i am proud that this parliament has given the sakharov prize to a dissident, hu jia, and i am proud that we have not suffered what the presidency wanted to do, that is, to kneel before the chinese who, every day, imprison and torture, while the european union says nothing. just like the european union didn't say anything when mr. putin just arrested a bunch of protesters who were asking what? social equality! that is politics, when the big guys are in front of us, we get down on our knees, and that is why we say no to this politics, when it is expressed in this way! (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, this french presidency will undoubtedly be remembered. it will be remembered because of the seriousness of the events of the six months and the exceptional importance of certain items on its agenda, but it will also be remembered, i fully agree, because of the rather unusual style of the president-in-office of the council, made up of voluntarism, reactivity, iconoclastic methods in relation to the community canons, all things that are not meant to displease me. and, beyond the style, we will remember above all the way in which he inaugurated the governance of the union, in particular the irruption of politics into a universe where it has traditionally had no right of citizenship, which i, for my part, have always called my wish. i am therefore convinced that the president of the council will not be so unpleasant, or at least more agreeable than in his last speech to the european parliament, to my taking up the usual and soothing speeches, this time on the subject of the last european council, to point out some problems, because real politics presupposes the confrontation of respectful but frank ideas. about the energy-climate package, first of all. it would have been tragic, of course, if the european council had failed on this question of civilization. i understand, therefore, that it is important for the authority of the european union and, above all, for the continuation of the process, that there is a compromise between the 27. but is it really necessary to speak of a historic agreement that makes the union a model? i don't think he did. is there a risk that this compromise will lead to the greatest possible number of european industrialists being exempted from any ecological constraints? is there a risk that europe will reduce only a small part of its own emissions by simply contributing to reductions outside europe through the compensation mechanism? are developing countries rightly expressing their bitterness at the absence of a mechanism for financial solidarity with them? if this model were to become widespread as it is, it would be impossible to achieve the urgent goals set by the world scientific community. so it is good that there is a european agreement, but its scope at this stage does not meet the expectations and needs. (applause) i would like to thank i would urge the same lucidity in the assessment of the recovery plan adopted in brussels. i think that to welcome it loudly would be a counterproductive message to our fellow citizens. at a time when household consumption is falling, when plans to eliminate jobs are flooding in, when social anxiety is worsening - see greece - this plan raises many questions. the raise for who? who's gonna pay for this new billion-dollar waltz? what results will it bring? why, in the context of the same plan, does one state increase the purchasing power of the population and another only helps businesses? how is it that the loans to the banks are not going to the companies, since we now have to help them directly? why do the states that bail out the banks not systematically take proportionate control of them, in order to create the conditions for responsible management geared to the creation of jobs and wealth useful to society? these are sensible questions that would be wise to answer before any other consideration. finally, it will not surprise anyone that my group does not commend the council for its pressure on the irish people. you are aware that the expectations of the irish people, like those of the european peoples in general, are much deeper than those you have mentioned. you will have a new illustration of this in the streets of strasbourg. we must hear them and we must respond to them, because, as you very well said, mr president, when we put the dust on the carpet, we prepare ourselves for difficult tomorrows.
mr president, the present crisis is the crisis of the euro-globalist system. it has been the occasion of much effort on your part, but the very framework of these efforts testifies to the inadequacy of the european union. as i have already said, the measures taken have been taken either within a national framework or within the framework of conventional multilateral diplomacy. national framework: this is the case for measures to stimulate the economy, which differ from one state to another - which is not in itself scandalous - and are then validated in common for the form. everybody knows that. you have succeeded in clothing in european politics the different and even opposite policies of mr gordon brown, mrs merkel and others, but the dress does not make the monk. the european union is a great example of a country that is not only a great country but also a great nation. the classic diplomatic framework, bilateral or multilateral, which was that of your efforts to contain the georgian crisis, or, for the economic crisis, the meeting in washington of the g20, which included only a small number of european states, with the usa, china, india, japan, canada, saudi arabia and others. this is proof that the union is too small a place to solve the serious problems we face. many things have been attributed to the union in an artificial euphoria, but we must put things in perspective. the energy-climate package, for example, has been surrounded by so many derogations that it is practically devoid of substance, crisis forces. the new constraints were waived for industries whose costs would increase by more than 30% or which export more than 30% of their production, i.e. three quarters of the industries concerned. the economic recovery plan, as has been said, is 1%, 1.5% of gdp, compared to 4% in the us, over 10% in china. the immigration pact has just been signed and is already being violated by the italian government, which has just announced the legalisation of 170,000 illegal immigrants. where will they go? and it is clear that the so-called 'selected immigration' and other european blue cards will have no other effect than to deprive the third world countries of the cadres they need most for their development. these measures will therefore not replace the immigration suffered, but will add to it and make it worse. finally, at international level, we condemn the abominable practice of people who refuse to accept the disastrous developments of a union whose benefits are more than its burdens, and who then have it reviewed indefinitely until they submit to the deviations of that union without any question. you know very well, mr president, that the treaty of lisbon is neither a miniature nor a simplified text, that it is the european constitution rejected by the french and the dutch. a european superstate that is becoming increasingly authoritarian and totalitarian, judging by mr cohn-bendit's peremptory injunctions to your successor, or by mr barrot's liberticidal initiatives to propose the generalization of laws to the whole of europe which our colleague mr toubon described as stalinist when he adopted them. this union is good, whatever you call it, the enemy of nations. it is a vehicle for globalist powers, it is preparing our economic, moral and cultural subversion. it is not the space of protection and freedom to which our peoples are entitled and which we will continue to demand.
mr president, it would be wrong to think that your presidency is perfect, but dishonest to think that it is a failure. i'm learning a lesson or two. it is a time of conversion, because from this presidency onwards, when the market has a problem, the state is the solution. i hope that this conversion is sincere and lasting, and as a french socialist, what a pleasure it is to discover that it is not the 35 hours that are the source of our problems but the banks, and that "madame des 35 heures" is better than "monsieur madoff". secondly, i think that at the end of this presidency you will have to rebuild a better franco-german relationship, which was shaken up at the beginning by the union for the mediterranean. the chancellor wasn't invited to a big meeting, and now she's being asked to pay germany. as in 1918 for repairs, as in 1945 for reconstructions, as in 1955 for contributions, as in 1990 for reunifications. yes, i defend germany, martin, you see? i'm defending her. and you know the saying, "you can't climb a coconut tree with a hole in your pants". i think that we need to put some order in our house and that we need to restore the franco-german relationship. finally, to succeed in a presidency, one must surround oneself with two socialists: bernard kouchner, mitterrand's minister, jouyet, jospin's collaborator, and delors. i am addressing bruno lemaire, the new minister, but beware mr sarkozy, he is a "villepiniste". you know the saying, "i forgive all who offend me", but i keep the list! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we may be going back to europe. regional crisis, financial, economic, social, climate, the world's agenda has shaken the french presidency. the commission has been able to respond to these challenges, and under your leadership the french presidency has been able to rise to the challenge, and i think it is right and useful to say so. but it is also useful for all of us to look together at what we still have to do to make the responses to these crises as comprehensive as possible. we have responded in a coordinated and rather well-informed way to the financial crisis, but now it seems to me that we must act and lay the foundations for a system of global governance, not just regulation. the madoff case clearly shows that we also need controls and we also need sanctions. we need a european regulator, and we will need a european prosecutor's office one day. similarly, we have a lot to do to respond to the economic and social crisis. the european plan, as you know, is unfortunately far below the american plan. we need big projects, innovation, research, infrastructure, adaptation to the sustainable. this issue must be on the european agenda in the coming months. we must also draw lessons from this crisis for the future, by working towards greater financial and monetary cohesion, particularly within the euro area, which will help to remove the misunderstandings between france and germany, by creating room for manoeuvre which will be very useful in times of recession, when growth will, i hope, return as soon as possible, and by refocusing the role of the commission, which must not give up its right of initiative under any circumstances. in times of crisis, it seems to me that you should have a duty of initiative. finally, under your presidency, we have found a compromise on the climate crisis. it's a compromise, it's not perfect, but it's there. i regret that it is leaving aside for the moment the crucial question of aid to developing countries which are continuing to suffer the consequences of a climate change for which they are not responsible. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote.
mr president, it was a very good french presidency. there were very few dissenting voices to disagree with. the 27 have overlooked their differences and reached a series of decisions which have been exemplary. on the energy-climate package, europe is taking a first step and in this respect, this first step is huge. it now has the means to assume its environmental responsibility without sacrificing its economy. it can now take the lead in this area and lead other continents on the path to sustainable development. ireland also offers a scenario for breaking out of its isolation. our irish friends will once again be voting on the lisbon treaty with all the cards in their hands, since virtually all the other members have now taken a final decision. the current crises show us that the union needs the best institutional tools to be effective now more than ever. the european council adopted a massive and coordinated economic recovery plan based on long-term productive investment and targeted support to the most severely affected industrial sectors. president sarkozy has raised the problem of reducing certain vat rates and i fully share his view. let us hope that the ministers for economic affairs and finance will reach an agreement in march which seemed impossible to the heads of state and government last weekend. the challenges facing europeans give the union the opportunity to appear to them more united, more responsive and more concerned to protect them. we are grateful to the french presidency for having given this new impetus. we, like nicolas sarkozy, do not want to see yesterday's council meeting again, which ended at 4 a.m. to negotiate three peanuts. in the last six months europe has indeed changed its mind, its scale and its credibility. we must thank the french presidency for this, and we are well aware that it is not entirely unfamiliar with this.
mr president, to govern is to plan. we may want to rewrite history and stage history to start the crisis with the collapse of lehman brothers on september 15, 2008. but everyone knows that it was in august 2007 that all the lights were switched on and that it was time, at that time, to make the question of the supervision of the financial markets, of the management of this crisis, one of the priorities of the french presidency. unfortunately, it was not until the collapse of lehman brothers that president nicolas sarkozy took up this matter and jumped from one top to the other. the reality of the proposals and solutions that have been put forward is an unconditional support plan for the banks, backed up by a monetary policy which is now accommodating. what do we see? banks that, instead of doing their job, that is to say, financing the economy and useful investment, replenish their margins. this is not what europe needs. we need a european action to have a banking sector that serves the economy and i think we will need it badly in the coming years. i am not sure that we have a strong enough basis for that today.
in writing. my first words will be to express my pride in being french at the end of the french presidency of the european union, in the person of its president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy. whether it is euro-mediterranean relations, the war in the caucasus, efforts to deal with the global financial and economic crises or major issues such as regulation (energy/climate package) aimed at having a carbon-free economy of the 21st century, immigration, agriculture, etc. - all this demonstrates the quality of the french presidency of the union, that of its administration and the remarkable action of the ministers who chaired the council, the first of whom is jean-pierre jouyet. this presidency shows, if need be, how much we need a stable presidency of the european union in the face of today's global challenges and, therefore, the ratification of the lisbon treaty and i welcome the wisdom of the heads of state and government who have found a good compromise with our irish friends. i hope that the czech presidency will rise to the challenges of europe and show its commitment to the union by beginning with the final ratification of the treaty of lisbon in the czech republic.
madam president, we have now reached a compromise and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs doyle. so europe will not be a laughingstock in copenhagen. i shall, however, hold my breath until tomorrow, hoping that our colleagues will vote correctly. i am also sorry that some of them are criticising the procedure that has been used. i think that is an insult to the rapporteur and to parliament itself. i would also like to point out that after the council, a new trilogue took place with the european parliament on saturday and that a number of things changed at that time. this is proof that parliament has its full place in the codecision process. i therefore ask my colleagues to remain objective. we won't get a better deal in a year or two. we also don't have the luxury of taking our time until 2013. the industrialists want to plan now, they want to organize now. all the necessary facilities are there. they are used to support research, innovation, and to help our businesses and our economy make the transition from a sustainable industrial revolution as painless as possible. they also make it possible to prepare better for the economic crisis without jeopardising the 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. so i ask my colleagues who are still hesitant to come to their senses to tell them that i cannot imagine the ridiculous situation of a european parliament which is unable to agree and which would nevertheless like to prove itself right next year in copenhagen. what happened last friday is historic. there is no continent in the world which has adopted binding rules as binding as those adopted unanimously by the council and approved at the trilogue. europe today is on the move because it has found what it lacked: a strong political will. so we are not just looking at institutional considerations. let's be above all of that. the european union, under the impetus of the french presidency, has just redesigned its economic and energy future by reaffirming its international leadership in the fight against climate change. things were not easy. getting 27 member states around the table to agree on binding rules was a real challenge. so, congratulations to the french presidency and good luck to copenhagen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection and competitiveness cannot be separated. together, they are sources of performance. unfortunately, the mechanism presented by our assembly may remain an ineffective compromise because it lacks two things. the introduction of countervailing duties at the frontiers is lacking. without this key, our demands are not balanced at the global level. they become additional production costs, brakes to expansion, accelerators of carbon leakage, imports that destroy our jobs. without compensatory duties at the union's borders, our qualities risk becoming defects. there is also a lack of a bold policy of allocating carbon rights to the forest and the wood sector. this would have enhanced the value of forests in developing countries, reduced co2 emissions and promoted the most basic of carbon sinks. these two common sense remarks make this well-intentioned report a great waste of energy.
madam president, we have reached agreement on the climate package and we are all relieved. but let me put a damper on some of the enthusiasm on this issue. an agreement was a necessary condition for considering a post-kyoto, but not sufficient to say that today we are able to meet the challenge of climate change. i think there are a number of weaknesses in this text. firstly, i regret that the bidding rate was reduced to 70% in 2020, whereas the original proposal proposed 100%. secondly, by accepting that 50% of the reduction efforts can be offset by projects in developing countries, the european union's responsibility for climate change is greatly reduced. thirdly, the low level of revenue and the lack of firm commitments to invest in the fight against climate change, whether within the european union or in developing countries. i doubt that such provisions, and more broadly those contained in the energy-climate package, will encourage the european economy to make the necessary change and that they will set the european union on the path towards a low-carbon society. we shall vote on this text, but i think we will need other initiatives to give more weight to european commitment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on industry, i welcome the compromise reached, which lays the foundations for the development of co2 capture and storage technologies, and which also defines a new regulatory framework which will lay down the legal conditions for the permanent and safe storage of co2 in the ground. we're in the field of experimentation. we must therefore take every opportunity to test this technology and demonstrate its reliability. we have succeeded in providing the financial means needed to build 12 demonstration projects throughout europe. as such, i welcome the agreement on the 300 million emission allowances that have been obtained and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr davies and mrs doyle. the result was the successful coordination of the various bodies. if the ccs technique becomes commercially viable, it could be offered to third countries as well, such as china, india, etc., and this technology should also enable the european union to play a leading role at the global level in the diverse range of clean, efficient and low-carbon energy technologies. once we have made the necessary progress in experimental research, we can then make this technology mandatory for a number of power stations.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, while i support the idea that the european union should encourage the development of demonstration plants for the capture and sequestration of co2, i have my doubts about the large-scale development of these technologies to combat climate change. i am particularly concerned about the large scale development of coal-fired power stations, on the pretext that we will eventually be able to capture and store co2. i think we must be very careful. my fears are reinforced by my disappointing record on the energy-climate package. we have confirmed the ambitious targets to show the world that europe is committed to an ambitious process of combating climate change. but when we look at the content, i.e. the tools that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i have a feeling that the targets will not be met by 2020: reductions in vehicle emissions, exemptions for energy producers in particular. what is left to achieve the 2020 targets? carbon sequestration, the development of new clean technologies? it's too soon. fortunately, there is still the involvement of european companies and citizens who are certainly more prepared than the policies governing them to commit to energy savings, the use of green energy, the conversion to new modes of transport. we must still provide them with the means to do so.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, "when europe meets a great idea, they go around the world together". in rejecting this quote from president mitterrand, i wanted to emphasize that this climate change package constitutes an opportunity, a real chance for the development of our territory. the co2 regulation for new cars included in this approach is the result of a compromise, as our colleague guido sacconi has pointed out, and i congratulate him. like any compromise, we can look at it as a glass half full or half empty. but the target of 95 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020 is perfectly targeted at the technological revolution, the ambition, the philosophy that we want to see reflected in industrial policies concerning the automotive sector, which is severely affected by the crises, and it gives visibility to the compromise. but this industrial situation requires several ingredients: a financial capacity of the union to invest, to develop a real european adjustment fund for a decarbonised economy, especially in the automotive research sector, and to involve employees in the sectors concerned through the creation of an advisory committee on climate change to give meaning to the social dialogue. the crises and the requirements of the fight against climate change make it urgent to generate new industrial policies based on this capacity for anticipation, for mastering social dialogue and for developing employment. "the wise cure ambition by ambition itself". the european socialists have therefore remembered to...
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr ayala sender for his commitment to this work, which he has carried out with passion, determination and also with great objectivity. the commission's commitment - and i can only repeat this to you - is therefore a primary objective, namely road safety. as regards the content, we have examined mr ayala sender's text and the amendments he has tabled, and we have no objections to that. on the contrary, the commission considers that the report goes exactly in the direction of the proposal we have tabled, even contributing in some respects to improving the quality of the text. for example, the european parliament considers the electronic network set up for the exchange of information to be a tool to be managed at community level in order to ensure the protection of the personal data of european citizens. i can only agree with these amendments which clarify and define the scope of the proposal. i also believe that some of the amendments actually strengthen the proposal we have put forward. i am thinking of the amendments which guarantee the prosecution of road safety offences which fall within the jurisdiction of administrative courts or those which propose the drawing up of guidelines on the methods and practices of control by the member states. all of these are essential to ensure road safety and to achieve the objective of reducing the number of fatalities caused by accidents on european roads by at least half. i would remind you that we see more than 40 000 people dying on europe's roads every year, and in 2007 there were 42 500 victims of accidents. if we look closely, it is more or less equivalent to the daily fall of an airplane, a tragedy which we too often underestimate and which we have become accustomed to disregarding in spite of its magnitude. we must certainly do more, much more. i would therefore like to congratulate parliament on its very rapid action and to thank mr sender and the committee on transport for their work and for their understanding of what is at stake, namely the safety of all european citizens. we are in perfect harmony with parliament. the commission and parliament are insisting that we act quickly, we need rules that have a real impact on reducing road accidents. unfortunately, we were not able to get the agreement of the member states at the last council of ministers. the french presidency tried to mediate, but we had to note on 9 december that despite agreement on the overall strategy to reduce the number of victims, many member states insist on the third pillar. while the commission and parliament agree on the first pillar, many member states continue to talk about the need to regulate the matter on the third pillar. this seems to me to be a complete contradiction - i want to say this publicly in the house, to repeat what i said to the council of ministers - we cannot have a european council decision which aims to find an agreement to get the lisbon treaty approved by a new referendum in ireland, the lisbon treaty as you all know deletes the third pillar, at the same time the member states say that we have to regulate all the action to enforce crossborder sanctions on the basis of the third pillar. i think it is a real contradiction which does not lead to any positive result and because of legal discussions we are wasting time and are not able to take concrete action to give concrete answers to the citizens. road accidents are not theoretical, they are something that can happen to any european family at any time, including our own. on the streets are our children who are coming home from the disco on saturday night or going to play ball or going to a party. we must bear this in mind, it is not a question of legal disquisition here, we cannot waste time. i am sorry that the council is not here tonight, but i make another heartfelt appeal - and i believe i can also do so on behalf of parliament - that the council should change its position and that the transport council should be in agreement with the european council. we must look to the future, we must look to the treaty of lisbon, we all hope that it will come into force soon, because i believe that we cannot look back on a matter which concerns the protection of the lives of all of us.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would first of all like to thank mrs ayala sender for her report because we have indeed worked very constructively and she has taken into account most of the amendments which have been put forward by the various members of the committee on transport to ensure that, well, we arrive at a draft directive which can be adopted, if not unanimously, at least by an extremely large majority in the committee on transport. i would like to remind you that - of course, this has been said - the aim of this directive is road safety. firstly, to reduce the number of people killed and injured on europe's roads, because it is a real calamity, a real catastrophe that is taking place every year before our eyes. this objective is, of course, shared by the 27 member states and by all the members of the european parliament. it makes sense to say it again. it is therefore a question of saving lives and, at the same time, of putting an end to the discrimination which has existed between national drivers and drivers from other states. it is intolerable that on the highways of one country two different drivers are treated differently. this is absolutely intolerable. this cannot continue, especially when lives - i repeat again - are at stake. the offences which are referred to are clearly identified as the most accident-causing: speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol, crossing a red light and not wearing a seatbelt. it is therefore essential that we follow the directive. in conclusion, i would like to remind you - as the commissioner said a moment ago - that the council of ministers has expressed reservations: third pillar, etc., but i think that the issue of human lives obviously deserves legal solutions, and here i sometimes get the impression that legal arguments are used as a real pretext. i think the problem is that we are no longer seeing this real disaster on our roads, which is not on the level of europe. it is absolutely essential that europe helps us to protect those human lives which are being lost every year. that is the point of this directive, and i hope that the european parliament will have a very large majority, almost unanimous, so that we can ensure that during the czech presidency we make progress on this issue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, allow me, on behalf of the socialist group, to add my voice to the kind words already addressed to you. it's true that when we negotiate with you, we know where we're going. you had your positions but with you, in negotiation, black is black and white is white. at last we knew exactly where we were and we could make progress. you have once again demonstrated that capacity for collective elaboration. i believe that is the characteristic of the intelligence of this parliament. in this case, it is what has enabled you, as we all wished at the outset, to reach an agreement at first reading. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is the whole post-market dossier where, following the adoption of the text of the mif directive, we would have liked the commission to come up with stronger proposals to organise, structure, supervise and regulate the market, the so-called post-market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the results of what the commission wanted to initiate with the code of conduct are very weak. we are now awaiting the results and are rather disappointed, as are a number of market players who see that self-regulation is not enough in this area. in the concrete and very precise text before us today, two main difficulties have arisen. the first was whether the european central bank should have specific powers in this system. i think bridges have been drawn. the council did not want to go beyond the present situation, and with our wisdom and sense of responsibility we accepted this compromise. this is the point of balance that is on the table today and that we had to recognize. the second important element was to check that the way in which the systems were interconnected did not in itself create autonomous systems and, again, the position which parliament has supported is a reasonable position which makes it possible to secure this interconnection without giving it an autonomy which we did not wish to put in place in this text. there are, of course, many other matters to be dealt with and i hope that the commission, thanks to its monopoly of initiative in this area, will exercise its responsibilities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, in this case, i think, commissioner, that you can be pleased that the european parliament exists. firstly, because a few months ago we adopted a report, also under the responsibility of mr ehler. i told you at that time that the crisis into which the european union had obviously entered required a reconsideration of this question even before the results of all the impact studies you had planned. the council had to give you the order to act. i'm sorry, but that's the way it is. i also regret that after the country of your origin put in place a system which almost destroyed your mandate, namely the internal market, you did not speak out publicly. let us not look at the past, but let us look to the future and let us look at the proposal that is on our table today. it is a reasonable proposal, it is a proposal adapted to the circumstances, and i am very grateful to the rapporteur for his mobilization and determination to enable us to reach an agreement at first reading which leads to maximum harmonization, which corresponds to the expectations of our fellow citizens, who, faced with the reality of this crisis, have been worried that this deposit guarantee case could harm their savings, whether they are small or large, whether they are local authorities or small and mediumsized enterprises. i welcome the fact that we have reached agreement with the council to extend the scope of the directive, which the commission had wanted to restrict to individuals only, when it is obvious that smes or local authorities are also concerned about the security of their deposits. i am also glad that we have reached this maximum harmonization, at 50,000 today, 100,000 tomorrow, with a commitment from the commission, no doubt for the successor of mr charlie mccreevy, to allow us to analyse the conditions under which we could move towards further harmonization, and possibly the establishment of a european guarantee fund. this is obviously a concern about the risks of distortion in terms of competition, but not only - and i think the rapporteur will agree with me on this - it is also a capacity for the european union to manage crises, it is also a capacity for the european union to avoid panic and to guarantee the rights of depositors. it seems to me that this was clearly the main concern of the european parliament. i have one regret in this negotiation. the reason is that we have learned from the bad example of ireland, but we have not learned from the bad example of iceland. in iceland, there were excessive deposit fees which led the european union to enter into negotiations with iceland to cover the guarantees beyond the interest rates that could be applied under normal market conditions. however, on the basis of the report which the commission will be submitting to us, i hope that we will be able to go further in these negotiations, bearing in mind also the conclusions which the group for which the commission has given responsibility to jacques de larosière will be able to give us on how to organise this mechanism in a harmonized way in the future.
the agenda calls for the report by jutta haug and janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, as amended by the council (all sections) (a60486/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to welcome the absence of the council and the innovation of the french presidency, which is honouring us by its absence, for the first time. i'd like to tell you, jutta, you thought it was out of contempt that the french presidency hadn't met you. i simply think that this absence reflects the disdain of this presidency, or at least of its ministers, for the budget of the european union. i shall not repeat what our rapporteurs have said, but i shall dwell on a few points. i will repeat this year again the inadequacy of this budget, the inadequacy of the multiannual financial framework: lack of funds for economic recovery policies, research, lifelong learning, networks, support for smes and small businesses; a policy of territorial solidarity and especially the cohesion funds, which are difficult to implement and therefore leave unused payment appropriations in the billions of euros; too much money for market agriculture support and leaving unused margins due to legal bases prohibiting new commitments; difficulties in using the money spent on rural development and the environment; the council's public commitments and the citizenship and information policies which are on the verge of poverty and do not allow real communication with the citizens of the union. but the realm of unrealism is the promises made in the framework of external action. the needs are growing, the conflicts are growing, poverty is spreading all over the planet - somalia, darfur, asia, typhoons, cyclones, famine, war in palestine, kosovo, now georgia - and the resources allocated are stagnant. every year, the impossible mission becomes utterly impossible. the creation of a billion euro fund, which is essential to try to revive food agriculture in the poorest countries, has given a glimmer of hope. we were hoping that, relying on the financial perspective, we could continue the implementation of traditional policies and find, within the margins available, enough money to meet this different urgency, to which must be added the implementation of the fight against climate change. it is to forget that the budget agreement is negotiated with the council and that the council, or rather the 27 governments of the member states, are facing, in addition to the traditional difficulties, the financial crisis which threatens the european economy but which is experienced as 27 national budgetary disasters. and so we are forced to vote on a budget which does not reflect the expectations of the parliamentarians, a budget where the gap between commitments and payments causes greater concerns about budgetary sincerity. the desire to share as little as possible in the union's revenue leads the member states to a simple and sterile position: firstly, to make as few payments as possible, hence the payment credit of less than 0.9% of gdp, with promises of commitment never checked, and not to facilitate the implementation of european policies in their country in order to avoid co-financing and thus allow unused appropriations to return to the coffers of each state. it is true that the union's usual policies are still being implemented, with varying degrees of success. innovative actions, often driven by our pilot projects, preparatory actions, are implemented by the commission. but the european budget is characterized by promising everything and not investing enough money in implementation procedures with the will of each member state. this year, we have two new and urgent challenges to face. the first is the fight against climate change, and the council's conclusions on this subject are modest but they have the merit of being there; the commission will be able to make a contribution to the budget if it is able to do so. the second challenge is the announced economic recovery of 200 billion euros. only 5 billion require new investment. so we need a slight revision of the financial perspective. yesterday the president-in-office announced to us here that this revision had been accepted, but the council has announced that it is blocked. so what's it gonna be? we are ready in the european socialist party. in conclusion, no, we cannot continue in this way, because we are seeing political europe unravel before our eyes. the time has come for a revision of the financial perspective which will bring europe's revenue and expenditure back into balance, which will remove certain fixed policies from the statute book and which will finance dynamic policies which serve the people of the planet with realism and efficiency. in conclusion, i would like to wish the commission good luck. it is up to you to implement this budget without wasting a single euro, and it is up to you to demonstrate and convince the sceptical states of the added value that the union brings, politically and budgetarily. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again this year the budgetary procedure has forced our parliament to negotiate hard over the overall amount of the 2009 budget and the priorities we have set ourselves to achieve objectives both in terms of growth and employment, of course, in the context of a rational economy but also in the context of a global crisis, and in terms of foreign policy and the policies under heading 3: 'citizenship, freedom, justice'. as we have always said and repeated, of course, the multiannual financial framework is narrow and absolutely requires this profound reform because tomorrow - even less than today - it will not allow us to meet the many and necessary needs of an enlarged europe of twenty-seven. in this context, the budget proposed by the rapporteurs is as good as it can be, and i welcome the announcement this morning by the commissioner of agreement on the much-needed revision of the multiannual framework. i welcome his constant presence with us and i also regret the absence of the minister for the budget, who was announced for a few seconds on the electronic bulletin board at the beginning of the sitting but did not consider it appropriate to join us. i particularly welcome, in budgetary terms, the efforts made to combat global warming, support for smes, combat energy dependence, and the measures taken to make europe more humane, more humanistic, better equipped to deal with the fundamental challenges of migration policies. i would like to express my concern about the appropriations allocated to rural development and i would like to denounce here once again the fate of this policy in favour of rural areas. a big thank you to jutta haug, her team, janusz lewandowski and the president of cobu.
madam president, at christmas, little boys get red cars to play firefighters, and little girls get barbie dolls to play everything. well, the european commission, the council of ministers have a small budget to play with public finances. so we are playing the budgetary dinner, a little bit for galileo, a little bit for kosovo, a little bit for palestine. there's even some for the fruit at school. a financial and economic tsunami is sweeping through the automotive industry, the real estate sector and the services sector, and we are playing with a budget of 116 billion euros, which is the amount of the spanish budget for 42 million inhabitants, or 45 million, and we for 400 million inhabitants. and i'm not talking about the two trillion dollar u.s. budget. a continent is going into recession and we are weighing budgetary fly's eggs with spider-web scales. and we continue to flout the 1% rule, deficits must not exceed 3%. there are two lessons in all of this. first, when you can't estimate the price of a barrel of oil going from 100 to 40, and goldman sachs predicted it at 200, when you can't make forecasts for a few months, how can you have a multiannual financial framework for seven years? this is scientific nonsense! secondly, the whole budgetary history shows that the legal ceilings, the gramm-rudman-hollings act in the united states, the 1% rule, all this is secondary nonsense. public finances are managed with empiricism, not dogmatism. we needed to have an energy budget plan to change the economic climate. it was called a great continental loan. it took the ability to break through, but it took scale!
i would remind all our colleagues not to speak too fast, the interpreters cannot follow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the 14th consecutive year the european court of auditors has refused to certify the budget of the european union. while the court has welcomed the commission's accounting procedures - which is the least we can do - it should be noted that only 8% of the european union's accounts are properly certified. we all understand that at this rate no private company could survive such criticism. this means that 92% of the european budget, or over €100 billion, remains marred by too high a level of inequality and irregularities. i just quoted the words of the report. irregularities that add up to multiple irresponsibilities. when you think, for example, that a communications agency is budgeting 15.4 million euros to send an urn into space with the slogan "we can vote anywhere", people may legitimately think that they are being mocked. in the present context, where households and governments must tighten their belts, at a time when france is a net contributor of 7 billion euros, we must stop taking the french and european taxpayers for santa claus of the european union, because in june they will become whipping fathers.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteurs who, in difficult circumstances, have succeeded in drawing up this 2009 budget, the last one before the democratic meeting in june. with 36% of this budget devoted to cohesion policy, it is one of the main community policies, a real instrument of solidarity and economic and social equity which we must strengthen, make more effective and better known. it is the tangible expression of solidarity in the european area, the one that is most visible on the ground, as close as possible to the territories and citizens, where they live and where the european union can speak concretely to each one. catherine guy-quint emphasized earlier the difficulties connected with the consumption of annual budgets, particularly those of the structural funds. in the area of cohesion, all actors recognise the difficulty of implementing european funds on the ground; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. simplification of procedures, better information, better training of the national and local actors concerned on this new cohesion policy, and the sharing of experience and good practice could certainly help to make better use of these appropriations. in this period of crisis and growing euroscepticism, the proper functioning of cohesion policy and the proper use of european funds can help to rebuild confidence and increase the commitment of european citizens if they feel that they are part of this project, provided, however, that we are better able to make visible and better explain, where it is implemented, what this policy brings. this is the responsibility of all the union's institutions, in the best possible partnership.
mr president, commissioner, many of my colleagues have just mentioned, again, the inadequate use of budgets, particularly at the level of the structural funds. it is therefore imperative that we correct this situation by taking appropriate and concrete action. i am therefore pleased to see in this budget an amount of eur 2 million for the pilot project on erasmus for local and regional elected representatives, which i myself proposed a few months ago. this budget entry follows the concrete proposals in my report on governance, which was adopted by a very large majority in this house last october. in order to implement our regional development policies effectively, it is not enough to pass regulations and budgets; it is essential that elected representatives of local and regional projects become real locomotives of the lisbon and gothenburg objectives, thanks to their know-how. with this erasmus for local and regional elected representatives, we will be able to strengthen human links and, above all, to provide the means for a faster and more efficient use of the structural funds. many associations of elected representatives have already told me of their enthusiasm for this erasmus for local elected representatives. with the support of dg regio, we will be able to launch this new scheme and thus apply the formula: 'think global, act local'.
in writing. we have had the opportunity to say here on several occasions that the simple objective of reducing the european union's dependence on imports of gas or hydrocarbons could in itself justify the promotion of renewable energies. the compromise presented today, which is part of the 'energy-climate package', is like all compromises: neither totally bad nor totally satisfactory. it is not entirely satisfactory, in particular, for biofuels, second generation or not: insufficient guarantees as regards competition with food production, vague as regards possible changes in the use of land, silence on the actual carbon balance of these energy sources... it is not entirely convincing on the "guarantee of origin" supposed to identify green electricity, especially when we know the reality of what the electricity supply is, the dubious advertising on the subject and the significant additional cost to consumers. finally, it is not at all satisfactory in terms of the social consequences: we would like to be sure, as with the whole of this legislative package adopted at the beginning of a global crisis which promises to be deep and long, that if the economic situation so requires, the interests of the citizens and workers of europe will take precedence over all other considerations.
in writing. the european union's only firm commitment is to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. this is a drop of about 12% compared to today. taking into account that two thirds of this reduction can be achieved through carbon offsetting mechanisms - i.e. the purchase of carbon credits on the international market - the eu has committed to achieving only a 4% reduction on its territory. this is not enough to move international negotiations forward. another lack of compromise is the lack of a firm commitment to support developing countries in their efforts to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the eu has made a purely voluntary commitment to use half of the revenues from the auctioning of polluting rights for climate. a decline in income due to the many exemptions granted to industrialists. the compromise states that part of this money could go to developing countries for european countries that wish to do so. this is a voluntary commitment only. a very weak commitment to an issue that is crucial in international negotiations.
in writing. on the sacconi report on emission performance standards for new passenger cars, i voted against the proposal presented, as a public expression of my regret that a more environmentally friendly agreement was not reached. nevertheless, i hope that the positive vote expressed by a majority of members will make it possible to provide a first set of answers quickly and then, in the coming years, to move towards decisions which reconcile the needs of our planet and our economy, in particular by taking into account the situation in the automobile sector.
in writing. the compromise as proposed does not provide a satisfactory answer. i regret that the target for reducing co2 emissions from cars is below the standards that our parliament wanted. and that this objective is conditional on an impact assessment. both decisions are not going in the right direction. we need strict short- and long-term emission standards and standards that are not subject to revision. the specific objective of reducing emissions by manufacturer will also penalise those who are already the most virtuous. the system of penalties for non-compliance with these objectives is unfavourable to those who have developed more environmentally friendly vehicles. the paradox of this legislation is that it penalizes less the most polluters. instead, the efforts of the most virtuous should have been recognized and supported.
in writing. i abstained on the report on co2 from passenger cars because i think it does not take sufficient account of the impact of the car fleet on climate change. the more ambitious targets adopted by the european parliament's committee on the environment should have been maintained. these objectives could not have a negative impact on the european automotive industry. the poor car sales figures recorded this year are mainly linked to the purchasing power of the french and europeans, but certainly not to legislation which, moreover, is not yet in force. it should also be borne in mind that part of the penalties will be passed on to the automobile companies to help finance their research programmes.
in writing. the energy and climate package we are voting on today is meant to be symbolic of an energy, economic and technological transition. and it is: the various measures proposed will profoundly change the energy mix of the member states, lead to a common or even a single energy policy, entail enormous financial costs, weigh on the competitiveness of our industries and thus on employment in europe, increase energy prices for individuals and businesses, have a significant impact on national budgets... it is true that many derogations have been provided for to avoid relocations. but this is not enough: in the current context of a widespread crisis which looks likely to be long-lasting, a general safeguard clause is needed to ensure that the interests of the european economy and workers will at least provisionally take precedence over environmental objectives as a matter of necessity. it is also necessary to provide for a general re-examination of the process if the forthcoming international negotiations fail, and in particular if the united states and the major emerging countries do not commit themselves in the same proportions. because then, the economic suicide of europe, which emits only 15% of the world's "artificial" greenhouse gases, would be useless.
in writing. i voted in favour of the four directives in the energy-climate package because it was important that the eu adopted these texts before 2009 and the international negotiations. deferring would have delayed the passage of the act, accumulated delays without guaranteeing a better text. it is a yes :- because the 3x20 targets (20% ghg reduction, 20% reduction in energy consumed, 20% renewable energy) and the transition to a 30% ghg reduction in the event of a more ambitious international agreement are confirmed; - critical because the texts proposed by the council are lagging behind the commission's proposals and risk not reaching the announced targets - staggered over time, large number of derogations, possibility of financing gas reductions outside the eu, which delays the necessary decarbonisation of our industries, economies and development modes;- vigilance because if the targets are not met along the way, the ep will have to impose new policies;- first step. i always thought that the ets would not transform our industry, our activities to reduce their ecological footprints. it is necessary to provide for substantial research and innovation funding, customs standards and tariffs to combat environmental dumping, and industrial policies and european funds to accompany the changes.
in writing. the common position on working time put to the vote by the council was a real setback for workers' rights and a real danger for our european social model. the socialist rapporteur, alejandro cercas, who i voted for, has succeeded in bringing down this conservative and reactionary view of the world of work, worthy of the 19th century, with a large majority. with the socialists as a whole, i have supported a series of amendments which guarantee essential advances for workers' rights. we have thus obtained the repeal of the so-called opt-out clause, which allowed freedom from the limitation of working time to impose up to 65 hours of work per week. similarly, because guard time cannot be considered as a time of rest, we have allowed it to be counted as working time. we have also obtained guarantees of compensatory rest and reconciliation between family and working life. this great victory of the european socialists, supported by the trade unions, is a victory for all europeans. the europe that protects is the europe that embraces major social advances such as those of today.
in writing. the european parliament's vote today is of paramount importance. the maximum working time in europe will remain at 48 hours, which will allow countries with more favourable conditions for employees to keep it at that level (such as france, which is at 35 hours). the council wanted to raise this limit to 65 hours. the left and workers' forces such as the etuc can take pride in this victory. doctors and medical students should not be forgotten because this victory is also theirs. the medical staff's duty time will be included in working time. the vote by a large majority will allow the 27 meps to make their position clear to the 27 ministers in the conciliation committee.
in writing. in the current context of crisis and social insecurity for workers, the council is today putting to the vote in parliament a common position which represents a real danger to the foundations of the european social model by weakening working time standards. the introduction of a waiver clause for the 48-hour week and the non-inclusion of guard time in working time risk creating a two-tiered social europe, between workers who will be able to benefit from social protection in their member states and others who will not be able to refuse to have their social rights reduced. contrary to the speech of the commission and some of the council of the european union states presenting the free choice of opt-out as a step forward, i have chosen to support the amendments of the rapporteur cercas, which are the expression of parliament's position at first reading in 2004. the latter require the repeal of the opt-out clause 36 months after the entry into force of the directive, the calculation of childcare time as working time (recognised by the ecj) and guarantees for compensatory rest and reconciliation between family and professional life.
in writing. i supported the position of the rapporteur, mr cercas, because the organisation of working time is an essential issue for the daily lives of european citizens. the massive demonstration by european trade unions yesterday in strasbourg showed their commitment to better protection for workers. several elements of this report have caught my attention and should be defended, such as the end of the derogation from the 48-hour working week currently in force in the european union. like other european socialists, i am convinced that reconciling work and family life is very important for the development of citizens. the cercas report, with its social advances, is a step in the right direction by removing the overly liberal measures applied in some member states, which would like to see them extended to the whole of the european union.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive is perhaps typical of what brussels europe calls flexibility and adaptability and dares to call social: opt-out (i.e. the possibility of going beyond the norms) for states or individuals, a limit of 78 hours worked per week, exclusion of guard duty from the calculation of hours worked, calculation of time by contract and not by person... in short, everything to allow the exploitation of people in a context of crisis, unemployment rising again, impoverishment of employees. that is why we voted for the amendments of the committee on social affairs and also for some of those of our political opponents, because they seemed to us to be in the right direction, that is to say, in the direction of the workers. two further remarks, however: - the rapporteur seems to be much more motivated by the image parliament would give to the citizens if it did not adopt its report six months before the elections, than by the well-being of the citizens themselves; - vigilance must remain: there is no majority in the council to abolish the opt-out and the report adopted today, which is already a compromise, may not be the last on the subject.
in writing. the european commission's draft working time directive, which was repeatedly criticised and then rejected in 2005, was clearly an ultra-liberal and globalist tool whose ins and outs formed an antisocial panoply that could lead to deviations. in particular, the "opt-out" principle allows the maximum weekly working time of 48 hours to be overridden. the employee could be called upon to work up to 78 hours per week. the report by mr cercas seems to have sought to reach an acceptable compromise. as amended, it is intended primarily as a political message to european workers and trade unions. on the other hand, there is no mention of the difficulties encountered by other professions when working time is too short, as with the 35 hours. especially in the health professions: hospitals, emergency rooms... the question of the regulation of working time, of the freedom to work more or less, requires an answer that goes beyond neo-marxist or ultra-liberal ideology to a more pragmatic and realistic approach. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. i voted for all the amendments proposed by my socialist colleague cercas to defend the social acquis in europe, in particular the following three issues which i consider to be fundamental. the limitation of the working week to 48 hours is an imperative which we have defended to the letter, since the member states cannot impose on their workers working conditions which do not respect fundamental social rights. maintaining duty time as working time: this concerned the safety and health of healthcare workers, but also of firefighters, other sectors subject to duty time and all european citizens. promoting work-life balance: last but not least, this enables our citizens to achieve the balance necessary for their well-being. i have committed myself with my socialist colleagues to defending the social rights of my fellow citizens: this is a resounding victory for the european socialists against the proposals of the european council which they consider intolerable. as my colleague mr cercas has said, we are giving him a chance to correct a wrong decision.
in writing. the global crisis is undermining the fundamental rights of workers and the demand for a social europe is therefore growing among our fellow europeans. however, european governments continue to ignore this reality. i therefore welcome the adoption today of the directive on working time, which can provide a response to these social distortions. this is a strong message from the european parliament to the council. governments must now assume their responsibilities and meet the expectations of our citizens. the text provides, among other things, for the establishment of a working week which may in no case exceed 48 hours throughout the european union. the aim is to set a maximum for the whole of europe, and this will not affect the states which have more favourable provisions. other measures include the consideration of on-call time, including the period of inactivity, as working time. finally, we can also welcome the removal of the opt-out clause.
in writing. amendments nos 23 and 24 to the cercas report on sunday work were declared inadmissible on the grounds of respect for the principle of subsidiarity: this is an excellent decision which i fully support. it seemed to me inappropriate for the european union to legislate on sundays and impose a uniform solution on its member states, when negotiation on a case-by-case basis allows voluntary and acceptable solutions to be found. i think that it is essential to set a framework for the possibilities of working on sundays, but i think that this must be done at the level of the member states, taking into account the specific social characteristics and the nature of the activities. it seems to me that it is equally essential to take account of the local economic context, for tourist areas, mountain or thermal areas, where activity is essentially seasonal: the opening of shops on certain sundays of the year makes perfect sense here. this approach based on free choice is the one adopted by the french government and will make it possible to find fair and balanced solutions on a case-by-case basis. in reaffirming the application of the principle of subsidiarity, the european parliament decided not to impede those policies which take account of these different economic and social contexts.
in writing. the ayala sender report is a new instrument for the prosecution of motorists: cross-border prosecution of serious offences (but strangely not of driving under the influence of drugs!), imposition on the national authorities by brussels of the number and place of the annual checks to be carried out, harmonisation of sanctions, random means of appeal, information and access to these means of appeal not being guaranteed in the language of the person prosecuted, possibilities for extending the scope of the directive to other offences (maybe overtaking of drivers?)... despite the claims, you're not interested in saving lives, you're interested in getting the fines back into the state coffers. if your concern was really safety, and not purely financial, it seems to me that the facts to be relied upon should be about foreign drivers responsible for fatal accidents, and not just about the offences they commit, the number of which is increasing mechanically by the multiplication of automatic radar. there is not even a study of the effects of the equivalent bilateral agreements which have existed, sometimes for several years, such as between france and germany or france and luxembourg.
in writing. the taxation, penalisation and systematic flogging of motorists seems to be without limit. we know, in fact, that it is not a question of punishing those who do wrong but those who do wrong. the sad and unfortunate requirement of "quotas" and "numbers" to be met by the police forces only aggravates an often excessive police repression. in addition, while there are many differences between the member states in the conditions for withdrawing a driving licence, and while the scale of offences and fines in the field of road safety varies from one country to another, europe wants to establish an electronic system for the exchange of information between the member states on offences committed on their territory, in order to penalize motorists even more. while it is good to see a reduction in the number of road accidents, it is important to ensure that these new legislative measures are not accompanied by infringements of freedoms, illegalities, irregularities or inequalities.
for the greens/efa group it is a great pity, madam president, that this debate is taking place without the council being present, and it is extremely regrettable that the sakharov prize was awarded without the council being present today, with the european commission. we have an emergency stop. yesterday, israel denied access to palestinian territory to the un special rapporteur. i believe that this is a very serious act, that it calls for an immediate response from the council and the commission, and, particularly as regards the strengthening of eu-israel relations, the message must be very clear and immediate. this report - as i was going to say every year - is both a good document because it is a very useful report on the activities of the council as a working document, but at the same time it does not contain all the elements of critical analysis, impact studies and strategies that the council is taking, adopting to fully integrate human rights in the framework of, for example, our energy policies, our trade policies or our security policies. parliament has done this. it's a tricky exercise, and what you hear is not always pleasant, of course. but i must tell you that it was in this report, it was from this study that the idea of a sakharov prize network, for example, was born. today, this network is constituted in this 20th anniversary declaration and many proposals are now on the table: a sakharov prize office, sakharov passports, a sakharov fund to support our prizes and human rights defenders around the world. there's no shortage of ideas. i welcome the fact that this presentation is being made in conjunction with the forthcoming report on fundamental rights in the union. mr. obiols is right. it is a key issue for the union to link its performance internally and its objectives externally. it is the crucial guarantee of its credibility. i would like to say that we cannot remain unresponsive to the criticisms of the european union's asylum and immigration policy from all continents and from all international organizations. the complicity of the member states of the european union in the fight against terrorism, which has allowed the transfer and torture of a number of suspected terrorists, cannot go unanswered.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, madam minister, madam commissioner, we all know that the protection of fundamental rights is the cornerstone of the establishment of the european area of freedom, security and justice. the european union wants to be highly efficient and has adopted european legislation against discrimination. but while we are quick to denounce human rights in the world, we must first know that - and you said, madam minister - sweep in front of our door. that is why we are now calling for an active policy to combat all forms of discrimination and for respect for human dignity, especially in prisons, because humanity often stops at their door. it should also be noted that in these times of crisis, governments seem to be finally discovering these european citizens who live in poverty and precariousness even while they are working. extreme poverty and social exclusion are a violation of all fundamental rights. we must fight the injustices faced by the people living in extreme poverty and the working poor. europe must remember that all fundamental rights, including social rights, are indivisible. how can we exercise our freedom of expression if we have no access to housing, if we are on the street or if we have no access to health care? we must hear the voices of these people by ensuring that everyone has the full set of fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter: the right to a life of dignity, to quality health care, to decent housing, to access to services of general interest, to a minimum income. in conclusion, i would like to recall the words of father joseph wresinski, founder of aid to all in distress, quarter world: "where men are condemned to live in misery, human rights are violated. to unite to enforce them is a sacred duty".
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam minister, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has to ensure the protection of the financial interests of the european union, and for this purpose it has, in accordance with the treaties, a shared responsibility with the member states. i regret, moreover, that the commission's seat is empty. it has considerable powers to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity that undermines the financial interests of the union. it was the resignation of the santer commission in march 1999 that led to the creation of the office for the prevention of fraud, known as olaf, whose tenth anniversary we will be celebrating next year. my dear colleague inge gräβle is right to call on the council to revise the 1999 regulation, which has been awaited for so long, because since that date it has been planned, on the basis of an evaluation by the commission to be carried out three years after the creation of the office, to revise that regulation, which had to be adapted. your answer, madam president, is reassuring. it's a coherent answer. this evaluation took place in 2003, and we have a proposal for a regulation. it is now necessary to bring the whole of this system into line, both with regard to internal and external investigations and with regard to olaf's general tasks. there is the 1999 regulation no 1073, but we also have the 1996 regulation on on-the-spot checks and inspections by the commission and the 1995 regulation on the protection of the union's financial interests. the 2005 evaluation included 17 proposals, and this evaluation proposed the creation of a european prosecutor, because while olaf exercises investigative powers, it is an administration that is not controlled by an independent judicial authority. this authority could be both a safety net for the investigator and a support for olaf itself. so what is the true nature of olaf? is this a special administrative department? we have a long way to go. thank you, madam president, for the impetus you have given today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting is an economic, social and health problem of a dimension which, in my view, is underestimated. it is estimated that in antwerp and rotterdam, one third of the goods that are landed in containers are counterfeit. i say a third, and these estimates are made by official services. i am very clear and i am not going to go around the bush, i am very disappointed with the proposals of the european parliament and with this debate tonight. and for once i am more disappointed in parliament than in the commission and the council, because the council and the commission have done their job in this area. the action plan of 25 september, the seminar of 25 november, the proposals which mr barrot has just made on behalf of the commission are real actions and not just words. and what i would simply like to say to you, commissioner, is that i would really like the observatory, for example, to be implemented by you in the first half of 2009 and that the regulation on market surveillance which the council has adopted be passed in this parliament. i say to my colleague mr susta, i am not talking about his alternative motion for a resolution, unfortunately we will not be discussing it. i am talking about his report, which is far too weak, far too timid, with nothing on the indication of origin, nothing on the observatory and a timidity and reluctance on the protection of intellectual and industrial property. the cbac, you say, must be implemented, but you say that effective means must not be used to implement it. i am also, i must say, astonished by the comments of my two swedish colleagues who say that the danger does not come from counterfeiting but from the fight against counterfeiting. my dear colleagues, we are out of the picture if we do not go even further. we are treating this as if it were a marginal economic activity, nothing more, when it may be the end of our industries, it may be the widespread exploitation of workers in emerging countries, do not forget, and finally, it may be general insecurity for consumers. we must act!
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course our group will vote for the report proposed by mrs van den burg, and i congratulate her on her work, which we know is always very good. i would like to draw attention to the fact that small and mediumsized enterprises are not necessarily in favour of the abolition of accounting requirements. in this connection, we receive many e-mails saying: "be careful, simplification is useful, but it must not have a boomerang effect". let me explain. accounting must be simplified, and that is the sense of the resolution which says that the commission must propose to us, as soon as possible, and in particular before the end of 2009, an accounting framework adapted to small and mediumsized enterprises. but that doesn't mean total immunity. why would you do that? firstly, accounting gives the head of a company the opportunity, at least once a year, to take stock of the situation of his company. accounting is also a very useful element in inter-company credit. it's also what banks ask for when they give out loans. there are the tax obligations. so let's not fool small business owners by telling them that we're going to save them a lot of money, a lot of time if they don't have to keep accounts anymore. we're going to disasters. what is needed is an accounting framework that is suitable for small businesses and that frees them from excessive or unnecessary obligations. but i think the greatest simplification, commissioner, would be to apply once and for all the rule that information is requested once in each member state and that companies are not periodically asked to make the same slips, the same printed forms, to give the administrations information they already have. this is how we can help businessmen, by ensuring that they have accounting rules which are adapted to their situation and free them from totally unnecessary administrative work.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission intends to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, and this is with good intentions. but the desire to save money by repeating the same old candle-tips will not fundamentally change the situation: the over-normalization, the multiplicity of decision-making levels and the systematic constraints created by the commission and imposed on european companies, regardless of their size, continue in parallel. today, only three states do not recognise the need for publication of information on the company from its birth to its demise and the commission itself admits that some of the information is lost. this loss will affect those who need it most, namely individuals and smes, surrounding smes or people directly connected to the enterprise. this project transforms portable information, i.e. information that is available to everyone without any special effort, into information that can be queried and that, in the end, only professionals with a precise knowledge of the purpose of their research will have access to. we cannot really approve this project because, in the spirit of a responsible legislator, the recipients of economic information must be all citizens, consumers and investors in the immediate vicinity, and this without any specific approach. at the same time, this project can and will certainly have damaging consequences for the regional press, which is already in difficulty, since its mission is the publication of judicial and legal announcements that can represent between 25 and 50% of advertising revenues. these newspapers play an essential economic and social role. we must defend them, because to defend them is to defend their social role of proximity. we would perhaps be well advised to seek to save money and to direct our work towards other issues. we believe that the world is not ready for this.
mr president, i should first like to thank our rapporteur, mrs van den burg, our coordinator, mr lehne, and our fictitious rapporteur, mr gauzès, for the efforts they have made to arrive at a position which i consider to be quite effective and reasonable. we are well aware that our rules must be adapted to the specific needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, and that is why we very strongly support the plan for small and mediumsized enterprises proposed by the commission and supported by the council. but we must not do so by treating these small and mediumsized enterprises as sub-enterprises, by putting them in a kind of ghetto where there are so many simplifications and so few rules that they no longer offer the guarantees that allow them in particular to obtain, especially in the present crisis, the credits necessary for their activity and development. that is why, like my colleague mr gauzès, i very strongly support the resolution proposed by mrs van den burg and adopted by our committee, which is to ask the commission to submit a proposal which would allow member states to exempt from the application of the directive those companies which are characterised by their very small size - balance sheet less than eur 500 000, turnover less than eur 1 million, number of employees less than 10 - and which have only local or regional activities in a single member state. this allows the member states, like germany, to adapt their legislation, but at the same time to treat small and mediumsized enterprises like everyone else, and this is very important. there is no development separate from small and mediumsized enterprises, europe must act so that they are not handicapped compared to others.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam minister, mr vice-president, i would first like to welcome the efforts of the french presidency and the efforts you have made personally, madam minister, to promote a better area of legal freedom and efficiency for the benefit of our citizens. our rapporteurs have done an excellent job. that is why the epp group will support these three reports: mrs wallis' report, mr istúriz' report and mr medina's report. i would like to explain a little bit about our group's position on mr medina's report, with which i have worked closely. this report, as you said, madam minister, mr vice-president, suggests that we should make a major effort to achieve mutual recognition of authentic instruments. there was a debate on the occasion of this report concerning the possibility of opening up terminology. for our part, we consider that this report concerns the authentic instrument whose characteristics have been defined by the case-law and that, at this stage, it is appropriate to confine ourselves to authentic instruments and not to introduce legal confusion by extending in inappropriate terms what an authentic instrument must be. you have said, madam minister, mr vice-president, what the characteristics of the authentic instrument are and i shall not go into that. i would simply say that if there is to be debate on other matters, on other acts which are different and which are essentially signed by private individuals, it is not the role of this own-initiative report that is really raising the real question today of mutual recognition of what the case law recognises as authentic acts. i would like to thank mr medina again for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister of justice, it is in this capacity that i wanted to address you at the end of this debate. with the portuguese presidency, the slovenian presidency and now the french presidency, that is to say rachida dati as keeper of the seals, i really believe - and i say this from my experience as a former minister of justice - that we have taken a step, a step, in europe and that we will not go back. today, a process of rapprochement, recognition and harmonization is taking place between legal and judicial systems which are by nature suspicious of each other. there is even a move on certain points to introduce legislation which is community legislation, either in whole or in part, such as maintenance obligations. in this way, even beyond what we have done under the pressure of necessity, for example in the field of security, criminal law and the fight against terrorism, we are now addressing those who need rules and dispute settlement that apply everywhere in europe, because they live, by definition, in their own country but also everywhere else, they work and have relations with everyone in the whole of europe. and that, mr president, must be emphasized. it is the unquestionable hallmark of the french presidency. all my colleagues have said so, but it must be stressed that this is a historic step which has been taken, without doubt, in the area of cooperation and legislation. i think europe will never be the same again if people really feel that the european judicial area is not just for sunday speeches.
mr president, i have followed all these debates, particularly on monday night, from beginning to end. we must take a responsible attitude to the safety of our fellow citizens who are urgently awaiting this regulation, which should increase the safety of children and families. we can't wait. mr verheugen gave the exact contents of the three statements mr barrot made on monday evening. this is only a formal deposition of these statements. commissioner verheugen said on monday evening that we can and must vote, that is our responsibility to the european consumers. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. in the community budget for 2009, we socialists proposed and got a preparatory action to develop social tourism in europe. the project responds to the fact that many citizens are excluded from travel for economic reasons and that it is necessary to correct this inequality by guaranteeing access to holidays for all. but it also has a usefulness in terms of spatial planning and local development. by combining social diversity and local development and by facilitating access to audiences for whom tourism is difficult, social tourism enhances the profitability of the tourism sector. it thus enables the development of off-season tourism, particularly in regions where the sector is highly seasonal, and encourages the creation of more permanent jobs in this economic sector. social and associative tourism illustrates that there is indeed an intermediate sector between the leisure market and the insolvent economy and that economic relevance is not incompatible with accessibility to the greatest number. through exchanges between european citizens, it also contributes to the strengthening of european citizenship. this is the importance of this sector, both in terms of economic impact and in terms of citizen resources.
in writing. the problem, according to the rapporteur, does not seem to be so much the removal of legal or administrative obstacles to the professional mobility of european workers within the european union as the fact that this mobility is not general and above all compulsory. we are being invited to a great population meltdown, accelerating the disappearance of the nations of europe. the idea is wage competition, social dumping and harmonization of wages through the bottom. the creation of a european social security card with very vague outlines is designed to jeopardize and dismantle national social protection systems. ask those french workers who were offered, a few years ago, to save their jobs on the condition that they decide to give up everything to go to work in romania for a few hundred euros a month what they think of your mobility! attempting to solve the tax problems or the acquisition of social rights of frontier workers, or those whose careers have been in several member states, is indeed a matter for the european union. but not at the cost of social uncertainty.
in writing. i found the compromise on the thyssen report too lax in terms of safety rules or the presence of chemicals in toys. in addition, the amendment calling for the conformity of toys to be checked by independent bodies has not been passed, whereas it seems obvious that the safety of children is being put before the interests of a few large industrial groups. i have always advocated stricter controls on products in general, and a fortiori on products for children. the disappointing final content of this text - far removed from our initial ambitions, even if it does make some progress - has therefore led me to abstain in the vote.
in writing. the frontex agency, which is responsible for the common management of the external borders of the european union, and in particular the fight against illegal immigration, owes its existence solely to the dismantling of internal border controls and the will of europe in brussels and the governments of the member states to pursue an active immigration policy. it is not certain that such a community agency would be a real added value compared to conventional intergovernmental cooperation, if one judges it, in another area, by the differences in efficiency and usefulness between europol and interpol. the agency's tasks seem to be becoming more numerous, more complex and, in fact, insurmountable until the root of the problem is tackled: on the one hand, despite the perils of the journey and the difficulties encountered on the ground, europe remains a social and financial eldorado for those seeking illegal immigration; on the other hand, the european union is a major source of funding for the european union's efforts to combat illegal immigration. on the other hand, the insufficient cooperation policy is endangered by the immigration of qualified professionals organized by the eu itself. the vacuum pumps of immigration and current policies must therefore be stopped. finally, i would like to stress that there are local associations which are fighting against illegal emigration, such as the alcec of mr emile bomba in cameroon, which deserve help and support.
in writing. recital b of this report states that 'illegal immigration is a common european challenge'. this is especially true when thousands of illegal immigrants are pouring into italian, greek and spanish coasts each month in search of european eldorado. in the face of this challenge, which, it should be recalled, has its main origin in the schengen agreements which abolished checks at the internal borders of the member states, the union's response has been the creation of a european agency for the management of external borders: frontex. yesterday, frontex was a mere gadget with no resources, staff or powers, but today it seems that its mandate allows it to support joint return operations and to make a small contribution to the daily fight against illegal immigration. but we must remember that it will be useless to close a few loopholes allowing illegal immigrants to cross if all the member states of the union do not react together to denounce the schengen agreements and re-establish real controls at all their land and sea borders.
in writing. counterfeiting is not just a problem of respect for intellectual property rights. as the rapporteur points out, this phenomenon kills the incentive to innovate, causes the disappearance of thousands of skilled and unskilled jobs in europe, and lays the foundations for a clandestine economy controlled by organised crime. such illegal practices may also endanger the safety and health of consumers or cause serious damage to the environment. the problem of the quality and hazard of imported products, whose counterfeiting only increases the risks by misleading consumers, is more general. the countries of origin are clearly identified, china being the most important. the union sometimes even agrees to open its markets to products which do not meet the standards it imposes on its own producers, such as chlorinated chicken, which is cheaper to produce than chickens subject to veterinary checks. in the arsenal of measures proposed by the rapporteur (bilateral or multilateral agreements, cooperation with the countries of origin, cooperation between the european services concerned, etc.), two are obviously missing: trade sanctions against the states which accept these practices; the establishment of a general national and european preference!
in writing. this report on cross-border use and the recognition of authentic instruments is likely to cause confusion in several respects. it should be noted, first and foremost, that the concept of an authentic instrument does not exist in common law systems. in england and wales, solicitors act as notaries. there are also professional notaries (scrivener notaries). they cannot issue authentic instruments and are only empowered to certify signatures. in its efforts to harmonize the legal professions, the commission has little regard for the differences in the very nature of the legal systems of the member states. unfortunately, this political will does not contribute to legal certainty as a whole. europe must preserve the identity of its peoples and the values and traditions of each of its states. the biggest mistake would be for it to build itself against its people.
