mr president, i would just like to add to the point made by ms in ’t veld. as i said in an email addressed to you and copied to other members this morning, another regrettable fact is that it seems that you have made the grand mufti comparable to the pope and the uk chief rabbi as a european representative of his particular religion. i think that sends a very bad signal to muslims who are european. the visit tomorrow demands every courtesy – although one would like an exchange of views about human rights abuses in syria. i hope, however, that in your future list of invitees this year you will make sure that a european representative of islam is invited and not somebody from outside the eu who might be taken to represent muslims in europe – which he does not.
mr president, we have over the holiday break seen a number of very worrying developments in pakistan, not least, of course, the assassination of benazir bhutto. we have the opportunity to discuss this matter this week. it is the view of my group that we should close our debate with a resolution, in particular since we should take a position sending a message to the pakistani authorities in advance of the visit of mr musharaff to the committee on foreign affairs of the house.
mr president, i rise on a matter which refers particularly to one member state but, i believe, has wider european implications. this year is the european year of intercultural dialogue. one institution which does much to promote intercultural dialogue is the british council. it is therefore of particular concern that russia seeks to close the offices of the british council in st petersburg and yekaterinburg. the work of the british council in russia is perfectly legal. it is regulated by a 1994 cultural agreement between london and moscow. i therefore request that the matter be raised by colleagues with russia in the context of our interparliamentary dialogue and that you, mr president, use any opportunity which presents itself to express concern to the russian authorities that a cultural matter, regulated by a perfectly normal agreement between two countries, is being trodden upon in an attempt by the russian authorities to stifle political debate.
mr president, three years ago this month, robert mccartney was brutally murdered by ira members in belfast. abhorrence at that murder reached this house when the mccartney sisters brought here and put their case for justice in respect of that. three years on, justice still evades them. why? primarily because the party which could help the most – sinn fein – is still more interested in protecting their own than seeing the killers brought to justice. indeed, the situation has worsened, because pressure on sinn fein has been eased by their admission to government, with the result that, for the sake of maintaining that government, those like my former party the dup are prepared to let sinn fein off the hook. tragically, justice for robert mccartney is secondary to maintaining the ‘chuckle coalition’ at stormont. likewise with the more recent murder of paul quinn, undoubtedly by the military wing of sinn fein – it, too, will be shamefully whitewashed and swept under the carpet. that is what happens when you treat with the forces of terrorism.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, i want to start my speech by agreeing for once with mr turmes. this report is all about giving a crucial industry a stable framework within which to meet the societal demands that we are placing on it – whether they concern environment or safety. whether mr dimas has achieved that and done a proper impact assessment in comparison with what is in the cars 21 report, i beg to differ. one of the things i would like to ask commissioner verheugen to do is to take a message to mr dimas and ask him to explain how the process that he is currently using to develop this regulation is in any way compatible with what is in the cars 21 proposal. i declare an interest in this because i was a member – a working member – of the high level group. this is the third report. the high level group made its report, the commission made a very good response accepting most of the recommendations of the stakeholders and now this parliament, thanks to the good work of mr chatzimarkakis, is going to convincingly endorse those conclusions. but there is one other group that characteristically is conspicuously missing from this debate, and that is the member states. one of the most important recommendations of cars 21 is an integrated approach. member states have a major stake in this, so why are they not here this evening? they are the ones who behave idiosyncratically in their national regulations and undermine the achievement of that stable framework, that internal market, that achievement of the environmental and safety goals that we want to achieve, those targets of reducing road deaths – where we have very ambitious targets and where they can make big investments in infrastructure and driver training. why are they not here? we need to send a clear message to them. one of the things that we ask from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is for this parliament to take an initiative in getting other national parliamentarians together in this house to talk in the framework of cars 21 about how they, as national and local politicians, are going to contribute to these overall goals of achieving a competitive car industry with the highest possible technology and preserving and developing jobs and employment, while achieving the goals that we all want to meet in terms of science, safety and environmental improvements. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, the committee on legal affairs supports the cars 21 initiative, which we believe was an exemplary example of stakeholder involvement. we say yes to the integrated approach, which we believe is fundamental to the success of this initiative. but, like mr harbour, i would raise the question about member states’ commitment, given their unilateral desire on occasion to legislate or implement fiscal regimes which undermine the integrated approach. yes to simplification, replacing 38 directives with un regulations – as long as we are not seen as abdicating our right to legislate should we need to – and yes to the development of technologically driven solutions such as ecor. but i would hope that the commission could take more action, as ms mann has suggested, on intellectual property rights, particularly in relation to china. we would like to see a proper implementation of the regulation on motor vehicle distribution in the eu and we believe it is fundamental to address non-harmonised implementation, the end-of-life vehicles directive. we have to improve cross-border inspections of vehicles and cross-border enforcement of traffic rules in other member states, because otherwise the whole situation becomes very disparate. but, like mr turmes, i believe that what we should be looking for is a framework which extends to 2020 and beyond.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the car industry should have reduced its emissions by a great deal more than it has, but we are where we are and it takes time to achieve change economically, so i welcome the rapporteur’s proposal to set a target of 125 g by 2015, to bring it in line with the vote of this parliament last october. i think it is ambitious, but it is achievable. and, to a significant degree, it now reflects the commission’s proposals for only a very gradual phase-in of penalties after 2012. but i am sorry that the rapporteur has proposed that the target values should be based on weight, because this removes an incentive to reduce the weight of cars and it goes counter to the vote we had in october. so, please, let us be consistent. in its proposals, the commission has recognised that footprint may have great merit; it simply says that we have not got the data to establish the credentials for that yet, so let us get the data as fast as we can and keep the options open. we do not want to fight our business leaders and our entrepreneurs. on the contrary, if we are to combat climate change and reduce the threat that now hangs over the survival of billions of people in the poorest parts of this planet, we have to get them to accept responsibility for their actions. i was wrong in november when i claimed here that michael o’leary, the boss of ryanair, had said that he did not give a toss for the environment so long as he could stuff his pockets and those of his airline full of gold. that may be the impression his scorn for environmentalists sometimes creates, but i apologise and withdraw the claim, and look forward to taking up his offer of a debate. but if we are to tackle the problem of climate change, we need people like mr o’leary and his counterparts in the car industry on side, working with us, pushing the boundaries of innovation and leading from the front.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the rapporteur claims that this initiative will encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to expand their cross-border business. but i have little doubt that it has been heavily promoted by the large multinationals, because it is they that stand to benefit most. in my country, in britain, the vast majority of businesses are small, and they provide for some 70% of employment. only a tiny proportion of these have any interest in foreign operations. but my main objection is that it is more meddling by the european union in taxation matters. judging by the eu’s record of value added tax, there will be endless changes to the law. we have had eight directives on vat so far, and it is still a mess and prone to fraud. businesses operate best when there are simple, well understood rules, as mr schmidt has just said. the eu knows how to do only one thing, and it does it to perfection. and that is to make things complicated. so, contrary to the views of other members, a much better plan would be to encourage tax competition. then those nations that have the lightest and simplest taxes will attract the most businesses.
mr president, i congratulate the commission – and you do not hear that very often from up here, do you? but this is a rare example of a report that is on the right road – to damascus? we insist on debating this proposition, for it seeks to cut regulation. it admits that small businesses are being weighed down by unnecessary legislation, some of it going back to 1960. the explanatory statement says that these unnecessary administrative burdens hamper economic activity and have a negative impact on the competitiveness of enterprises. i could not agree more; why stop here? why only limit unnecessary paperwork from 10 employees or less? let us go the whole hog and apply it to the whole of the foodstuffs industry! go on, make a bonfire of another 100 000 pieces of legislation! while you are at it, scrap the commission, parliament and the council. i am serious. by cutting regulatory burdens, you enable the nations of europe to throw off the shackles that will otherwise inevitably turn us into the economic also-rans of the 21st century.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr stockmann for his report and, on behalf of the pse group, i would inform the chamber that we will be supporting the line adopted by the committee on transport and tourism. our rapporteur has done a fine job in producing a more realistic and balanced position, but i still find it difficult to understand why this proposal was put forward by the commission in this format and at this time. speaking now in a personal capacity: for many years within the civil aviation industry and with the commission we have been fed a diet of deregulation and yet, in regard to airport charges, we are now being told regulation is the answer. i have to say that the irony of this is not lost on me. however, we are where we are. i fully support the need for transparency in airport charges, with full consultation with the stakeholders. i fully support the need to ensure that airports in a dominant position do not abuse that situation and i fully support an open and transparent appeals procedure, provided that the rules of engagement and the remit of the arbitrator are clearly defined. however, i very much doubt whether the proposition to regulate scores of airports throughout the eu is going to produce the utopia in airport charges that the airlines and the commission want. surely, if it is legislation to eliminate monopolistic practices that we seek, the regulation should be based on a market test relating to each individual airport, not an arbitrary figure plucked out of thin air for no apparent reason. i believe that, if you have to use a figure, you should use one that reflects the economic dominance of an airport, namely a percentage of national traffic, and address it to those airports that are dominant, not those which are not. i am not against regulating airports that are in a dominant market position, but i think regulating the majority of airports to catch the big boys, based on an arbitrary passenger figure in a one-cap-fits-all regulation, is a flawed process.
mr president, the commission talks much about promoting competitiveness in industry and about cutting red tape, but its walk in these issues is often one that takes europe in quite the opposite direction, and so it seems to me with its stance on air travel. having championed increased costs for air travellers through green taxes, we now have a proposed directive on airport charges which will inevitably drive up costs for the flying public. regional airports are my particular concern. they have been a catalyst for progress in many regional economies: they have opened up markets; they have made the inaccessible accessible; they have been indispensable in economic transformation. and now, true to form, the commission wishes, effectively, to stifle them with the heavy hand of bureaucracy, burying innovation under a mountain of reporting requirements for which the traveller will ultimately pay. i say this to the commission: if the genuine reason for this directive is to tackle the abuse of dominant position in the market, then why does it include regional airports at all, when they are not the problem? in my own constituency of northern ireland, its airports are key to its development, yet last week, when president barroso was providing sound bites of support for northern ireland – and on the very day that we open a new route between belfast and heathrow – we have this commission proposal which will hike costs and discourage expansion. for those reasons, and without apology, i will vote against this proposal.
mr president, i believe the essence of this debate can be summed up with the question: how do you measure market dominance? this directive is the commission’s attempt to bring a large number of community airports under regulation, and it has seen fit to do this because it believes there could be an imbalance in the relationship between airports and their users, the airlines. in some cases they are right; the more sizeable airports in the eu, like london heathrow and paris charles de gaulle, should be regulated so they are not in a position to abuse their market dominance. but i believe the smaller regional airports of the eu should only be regulated when they are found to be operating anti-competitively. so, back to the question: how do you measure market dominance? a system that captures every community airport with passenger numbers of five million per annum and above is arbitrary but certainly better than one million. and, where an airport accounts annually for more than 15% of the passenger movements in the member state, that is better too – but still arbitrary. newcastle airport in the uk, for example, with 5.2 million passengers, still has to compete with other airports all over the north of england to attract business. why add burdensome and costly red tape to the smaller regional airports that do actually compete with each other and need to grow? that is why i want the possibility for national regulators to opt out their airports from this regulation. the secondary aims of this directive are, however, very good. common rules on provision of mutual information, transparency and the collection of charges is something which i applaud. but surely, in this case, the commission should not regulate further than that for regulation’s sake.
rapporteur. − madam president, health and safety at work encompasses a vast array of issues. at a simple level, it is about reducing accidents at work and work-related illness. for the individual, it is about his or her physical integrity, dignity and well-being. for businesses, it is about reducing the costs of absenteeism, sick pay and loss of productivity. for society as a whole, the costs of poor health and safety at work have been put at an astronomical 3.8% of gross national product. the charter of fundamental rights, signed last month in this very chamber – despite the disgraceful outburst of certain ukip and conservative meps – provides in its article 31 that everyone has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. it also provides that every worker has the right to limitation of maximum working hours. the european agency for safety and health at work estimates that every year over 140 000 people in the eu die from occupational diseases and nearly 9 000 die from work-related accidents. these figures mean that every three and a half minutes somebody in the european union dies from a work-related cause. that means that, in the short time i have been speaking already, it is possible that somebody has died and, by the time this debate is finished, it is probable that 20 people will have died. some of our colleagues may contest the fundamental right to good health and safety at work, but i am sure none of them would question the right to life. a health and safety at work strategy for the eu should be strong on properly implementing and enforcing the existing regulatory framework. what we already have in place is largely very good, but it does need to be consistently enforced throughout the union. however, this does not mean that, where existing legislation is clearly inadequate, we should not update it in order to make it work properly and provide the best levels of protection possible. it also does not mean that we should react to suggestions for legislative instruments like a vampire does to garlic, as some would do in this house. of course, no one would argue that the legislative route is always the best. however, there are cases when binding rules are necessary in order to ensure that a new or emerging risk is properly and consistently addressed in all member states. the commission communication is to be welcomed and applauded for its target to reduce work-related accidents and its strong focus on smes. however, we also need to focus on occupational illnesses which have a huge cost in terms of workers’ health, the cost to businesses and their productivity and to society as a whole through associated social security and health care costs. the report reflects this and urges the commission to ensure that occupational diseases are correctly identified and remedied, with a particular focus on occupational cancers, with a view to setting targets for their reduction. we also need detailed action plans with financial and timing commitments. besides the targets for a 25% reduction in accidents, there appear to be few ways in which progress can be monitored and measured. priorities for action identified in my report include a carrot-and-stick approach to enforcement of existing legislation. i would like to see the member states reward business for good health and safety with tax rebates and a preference in calls for tenders and the introduction of a bonus-malus system in insurance policies, as well as other financial incentives. however, i would also like to see tougher sanctions for those rogue employers who neglect the health and safety of their workforce, as well as more infringement proceedings against member states who do not adequately implement and enforce the existing health and safety legislation. any health and safety strategy should naturally focus on those who are most at risk. such vulnerable groups include migrant workers, who are often exploited, as well as young and ageing workers, who need special attention, and those with disabilities. it is essential that the 1989 framework directive be rigorously applied to these groups and other workers who are often ignored, such as agricultural and health care workers, when drawing up and implementing their strategies. the member states need to take full account of these groups. we need a framework directive on musculoskeletal disorders to address a problem such as lower back pain – repetitive strain injuries, effectively – and lower back disorders. there are lots of other issues i would like to raise but we are running out of time, so i look forward to hearing other colleagues and what the commission has to say.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is a very good report and i wish to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation. i am pleased that the report talks about better implementation of the current directives. i also welcome calls for better inspection. there is no point in member states paying lip-service to implementation, as many do in the field of health and safety, and then, quite often, calling for more legislation, even if the scientific and medical evidence does not establish a risk. one area which does require legislation – and we called for this in 2005 – is prevention of the more than one million needlestick injuries that affect healthcare workers each year across the eu. imagine the horror of being accidentally pricked by a needle and then having a horrendous wait to see whether you have contracted a serious infection, such as hiv or hepatitis b! the commission must heed our call and bring forward an amendment to the 2000 biological agents directive. in some areas, exchange of best practice is probably enough, which is why i am pleased that my amendments on health care-acquired infections were adopted in committee. infections like mrsa are serious not only for hospital patients, but also for hospital workers. rates of infection vary considerably between member states. for example, the rate of infection in the uk is 10 times higher than in the netherlands. we need to know why, and how we can learn from best practice. that is why, in one of my amendments adopted in committee, i called for an eu code of good practice on health care-acquired infections, and for the screening of all health care workers to be encouraged across the eu.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, adopting this report on health and safety at work would add yet more bureaucracy and red tape, just when i thought the commission were intending to reduce that! workers losing time through illness and injury put up the cost to the enterprise concerned and hence their prices. in an eu of free movement of goods and services there is more competition, so those who do not look after their workforce lose business. people off work through illness also raise the cost of social benefits, contributing further to a rise in prices. it is therefore in a company’s best interests to keep its workforce in good health. good ideas always spread, so that should not be too difficult. this depends, of course, on there being a free market, but of course, if like some members of the committee on employment and social affairs you think this leads to the law of the jungle, then you have another serious illness to contend with. apparently, member states which promote a free market are psychiatric cases.
madam president, i would like to speak about needlestick injuries, because i was responsible for the 2006 report on this issue. i wonder whether the commissioner would agree with me that, where a risk is identified that needs to be tackled at european level, then there is a need for the commission to ask expeditiously. if he does agree, i wonder whether he can explain why it took a full year for the commission to manage and assess the first round of consultation with the social partners on needlestick injuries, even though there were only 10 responses in that consultation. i wonder whether he can also assure us that work on this issue will proceed faster in the year ahead. one million workers a year are affected by needlestick injuries. that means around one and half million will have been affected since the report was completed by parliament. could the commission please act a little faster in future?
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to thank my colleagues for their comments and to make just a couple of points. firstly, on the issue of cancers, it is necessary to revise the carcinogens directive to reflect technical progress and changes in scientific knowledge in the world of work. it is important that we have effective binding limits for carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic for reproduction. limit values should be based on scientific evidence, and i would urge the eu scientific committee to examine crystalline silica as a matter of priority. i would urge colleagues not to delete reference to this and oppose amendment 6. secondly, the report calls for nanotechnologies to be monitored and potential risks to health assessed, and i would urge colleagues to oppose amendment 5, which seeks to delete this. i fully recognise the potential benefits of nanotechnologies. nevertheless, the rapid growth of such technologies is outstripping our understanding of the potential occupational health risks: workers can be exposed to nanoparticles through inhalation, dermal contact and ingestion, and we cannot bury our heads in the sand and refuse to carry out research and assess whether there are any risks. thirdly, i would just like to reiterate the call for the commission to bring forward a legislative amendment to the directive on risks from biological agents at work in order to address the problem of needlestick injuries. this needs to be done as a matter of urgency. as i mentioned earlier, health and safety is a fundamental right included in the charter. we need a strong eu strategy to ensure that this fundamental right is upheld and that workers throughout the eu are adequately protected. each single accident and each work-related illness constitutes a breach of a worker’s fundamental rights. we all know there is a strong economic case, as well as good business reasons, for good health and safety in the workplace but, more importantly, the strongest argument has to be the cost to human health and the lives that can be saved. one life every three and a half minutes – who can argue with that? (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this. i know that this often seems like a very technical piece of work, but these rapid annual updates are important because they offer transparency for citizens about their entitlements. it also means that certain individuals can be covered more quickly. i would also like to stress – as others have done – that this is a coordination, not a harmonisation. often that means that certain things which seem very reasonable are not necessarily acceptable within the coordination’s very limited scope. i think we also need to be clear that this coordination is not intended to undermine national systems and open them up to market forces – as i think we are beginning to see, particularly in the health sphere at the moment. as others have mentioned, the implementing regulation for the update is in progress, but we already know that certain issues are not going to be covered. i think we need to find a solution for these outside the scope of this coordination, and i would urge the commission to look at this: for example, when tax revenue is increasingly being used to underpin social security systems and people working abroad find that they are paying tax to contribute to a social security system to which they no longer have access. i would also urge – as parliament did some time ago – that national practice come into line with the spirit of the regulation so that we do not find, as is happening in france at the moment, that certain individuals are now no longer able to access systems to which they have been paying because of changes in national regulations.
member of the commission. − mr president, the vote in this house on wednesday on the consumer credit directive is a very important moment for europe’s 500 million consumers. it will directly affect many people’s lives, and it is about two critically important issues. the first is about consumers being able to make better-informed choices when they take out credit loans: to pay for a family wedding, a washing machine or a new car – the things of life. second, it is about consumers getting more choice and a more competitive market. it is also a very important vote for businesses, creating a single, simple framework of rules so banks and other creditors can do business more easily across borders. we need to seize this opportunity to move forward. it is clear that the status quo is not working. the figures speak for themselves. in europe the average consumer credit interest rate varies from around 6% in finland, the cheapest member state, to over 12% in portugal. in italy, credit rates are about 9.4%, in ireland about 6.8%. europe’s consumer credit market is fragmented, broken down into 27 ‘mini markets’. and, in a european credit market worth eur 800 billion, direct cross-border financial services make up only a tiny fraction – 1% – of all distance credit transactions. clearly, the internal market is not functioning. clearly, competition at eu level is not functioning. the result is that consumers are being denied choice and more competitive offers, and competitive businesses are being denied opportunities to access new markets. the consumer credit directive is necessary to start to break open the potential of the internal market and boost competition and choice. there are two main aims of the consumer credit directive: to provide standards – comparable information – to consumers to make informed choices, and to give businesses a single set of standards to sell competitive credit offers across borders. the consumer credit directive focuses on transparency and consumer rights. i will highlight just a few of the important common elements it puts in place. concerning advertising for credit loans: if there is a figure in an advertisement on credit, it will be mandatory to provide the same standard list of essential information all over the european union. most importantly, for the first time, the annual percentage rate of charges will be calculated in the same way across the european union. this is a very significant step forward, so that consumers can see the real cost of credit using one single figure. concerning pre-contractual information: information given to consumers for credit offers will be presented in the same standard credit information form across the eu, and it will give all the key facts and figures – from interest rates to information on charges and linked insurances. this will allow consumers to make a direct comparison between different offers presented in a standard, comparable way. the directive also sets out two essential rights for consumers. once they have concluded the credit contract, consumers will be able to withdraw from the credit without having to give any reason and without any charge. this right, a new feature in almost half of the member states, will apply to all consumer credits in the european union. in addition, the consumer credit directive confirms the consumer’s right to switch, and this must be a very stable policy line – not only in this area. the right to switch with the right to repay early at any time: this is a critically important issue for the commission, to ensure fair compensation to banks and at the same time to safeguard the consumer’s right to make a free choice and to proceed to a more competitive offer on the market. this is essential if competition is to thrive. i fully recognise that harmonising legislation in this very sensitive area is not an easy task, but i am convinced that markets are made by people and should be made to work for people, and i believe that we in europe are in the business of putting people at the centre of the market, giving people the power to chose, giving businesses the power to compete, and getting the european market to work for consumers. i want to emphasise that, in the modern world, it is not about pitching consumers against business, but building healthy markets where consumers can choose and businesses can compete. i believe that the amendments put forward by the pse and the alde groups – with which the council has agreed – constitute a fair and reasonable compromise. in my opinion, this is the best option in the interests of both consumers and financial services providers. i believe that the vote for this compromise package is a vote in favour of competitive markets, clear information and more informed consumer choice. it is a modest beginning in the consumer dimension of financial services, where much needs to be done. so i look to the members of this house: you are the ones to speak directly, on behalf of european citizens; you have fought, for so many years, for the things that really matter to people in their daily lives. the task is to vote to support an agreement today on credit rules that will provide real added value to europe’s citizens in that space where they lead their lives and to send a clear signal of europe’s willingness to roll up our sleeves and work in an area that greatly concerns our citizens and businesses, large and small, today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by acknowledging the huge amount of work done by the rapporteur for our group, mr lechner, and also to pay tribute to both the commission and the council for the work we have done together on what has been a difficult and sometimes controversial proposal, which, as the commissioner has said, has gone on over a number of years. at its core – and here i agree completely with the commissioner – is an extremely important proposal for europe’s consumers in the internal market. consumer credit is a really important mechanism for bringing consumers into the market place. we want a thriving and innovative market; we want companies actively offering a wide range of products and services tailored to the need of consumers to buy specific articles, products or services. but, above all, we want a well-regulated market in which consumers feel confident in accessing that market and knowing that they will have the information but also the safeguards of being able to see clear contract terms. it is quite clear in financial services that good regulation encourages market activity, and that is what we have been seeking throughout this process. however, the problem we have had with this directive is the fact that the consumer credit market across the european union is at very different stages of development: many countries, like my own, already have well-developed regulation. the original idea of a maximum harmonisation would have meant that consumers in those countries would have been disadvantaged, and it has been trying to get that balance right that has occupied us. i just want to correct one impression that i think ms kuneva gave, perhaps unintentionally: the package of compromise amendments on the table is supported with one exception only by this group. we have tabled the same amendments; it is a consensual position across parliament. i think there is one aspect that we are still arguing about, but i am sure we will get there and then we will have a good and important package. however, the important thing is that we keep monitoring the evolution of this market, ensure that it develops in a responsible way and deal with some of the problems that might arise from the evolution and development of that market. i am confident that this house will rise to its responsibilities and we will come up with a good package tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and previously the committee on legal affairs, have always recognised the potential benefits, to both businesses and consumers, of developing an internal market and consumer credit. i was present during the gestation of this legislation and hope to be there tomorrow for the final delivery, as it were, of the new consumer credit baby! the last five years of discussion and debate have demonstrated fundamental differences between the commission and parliament, and more specifically between the member states, on the best way to achieve this, and i firmly believe there are lessons to be learned from that. all proposals – even a modified commission proposal – have to undergo a rigorous impact assessment to enable all parties and stakeholders to evaluate the merits of the proposals and to engender consumer confidence and business confidence. it is regrettable that neither the commission nor the council was prepared to do this at the time. however, our job today is to address the new text, which is a vast improvement on the original proposal. it focuses on the essential elements and components for starting to open the market and for protecting the consumer. its benefits include enabling consumers to compare offers of credit, obliging lenders to assess the credit-worthiness of the consumer – which will be important in the fight against debt across the eu – and obliging lenders to provide explanations and, as a result of our amendments, all creditors will now be responsible for providing comprehensive and standard information in a simplified format. i welcome the 14-day withdrawal right and the right to early repayment, which are good elements for engendering consumer confidence and encouraging them to look beyond their home market for credit offers. this is not just about opening the market, and the fact that we now have free movement of labour and people across 27 eu member states gives this law new significance. for example, a polish plumber working in france or germany and borrowing from a credit institution there can now obviously compare the different offers on apr in the knowledge that he has the standard information enabling him to take the right decision. finally, i welcome the fact that the commission, by exempting credit unions from this law, is not strangling small community providers with red tape. i also welcome the member state flexibility there is now. this has, for example, enabled a high level of protection to be maintained for consumers in the uk, which will now retain the right to joint and several liability for credit cards. there is therefore enough flexibility in this proposal to make it work, and i would urge members to lend it their support. as chair of the committee, i think that our work does not finish here ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is normally the time of year we all wish one another a ‘happy new year’. however, in the uk, and globally, the news this new year has been dominated by worries over the economy, and particularly over consumer credit. it is not just a question of normal post-christmas depression; we all know that it goes much deeper than that. credit is going to be a difficult issue for the foreseeable future, for both lenders and borrowers alike. as legislators confronted with that global backdrop, we need to do something. we need to stimulate the eu’s market in financial services, while on the other hand ensuring that our consumers make sensible and informed choices, and that all the information and the comparators are available to them in order to do so. many of us in this house, and particularly in the committee on the internal market and consumer affairs, have spent the last couple of years sitting on an enquiry by parliament into the demise of the british insurer, equitable life. we know what the consequences are for consumers, in the context of financial services, if we get the cross-border regulatory regime wrong. in this instance we need such a regime and we need to get it right, particularly in view of the global circumstances we are facing. this directive can help. it can help europe’s market in financial services at a difficult time, and it can empower and assist our consumers in obtaining credit and doing so competitively. my group has signed up to and put forward, with the pse, a package that we hope will be agreed. it seems to us that, at the end of the day, we are faced with an argument that is almost about one word, in one article, after seven years of negotiating and drafting. it would be a pretty poor affair for this house and for europe’s institutions if we cannot overcome that and deliver this directive, which will, hopefully, bring to the european market all the benefits we have heard outlined.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i wonder if i might perhaps offer a few words of wisdom here. i have spent most of my life in merchant banking, albeit not retail banking, and i have to say i do not regard it as the business of politicians to come between a consumer, or a lender, and a borrower. i would not dream of trying to regulate on this subject, with all my experience. i look down the list of people who actually serve on this committee and in this parliament and i do not see a great deal of experience there, so it is a question of the blind leading the blind. i think that this place, which has not managed to audit its own books for nearly 11 years, commenting on this is slightly absurd. the fact that you can actually have rules for bucharest, london and paris and consumers in those places is absolutely ludicrous. perhaps i could warn people like the uk government that bailing out banks to the tune of 50% of their entire reserves is fundamentally wrong. so, if i may, let me give one tip to the consumer: ‘never a lender or a borrower be’, and to governments, let me say: ‘a fool and his money are soon parted’!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, on a point of order, under rule 160 of the rules of procedure, our group has requested that we have roll-call votes today on everything, and i know that has excited some interest in the chamber. just by way of explanation, not just this group but many meps from all groups are deeply concerned about the method of voting that takes place in here. in fact, you yourself in the chair just a few months ago said we have made mistakes here, which, in a vote of this size, are statistically normal. we would argue that when we are voting on legislation there should not be any possibility of mistakes being made. perhaps i would ask members, when they are going through this lengthy roll-call procedure, to consider just how important voting is, and perhaps in the light of that we will get meps next month, when we vote on the eu lisbon treaty, to vote for an amendment to allow those 10 countries that promised their own people a referendum, the opportunity to do so.
mr president, on that very point, during the last parliamentary term, a group chaired by mr corbett, from the pse group, submitted proposals to the house to the effect that, if more than 100 amendments were tabled at the plenary stage, then the report in question should be sent back to committee. there have now been a number of occasions when that has not taken place. i wonder if, when recommending to the conference of presidents that it look into these matters, you could also recommend it consider the very good recommendations which mr corbett brought forward during the last parliamentary term.
mr president, pursuant to rule 145, i would just like to make a personal statement. yes, i have written to the president of parliament complaining about the voting, as you know. i have updated him several times since then, because my request for full electronic voting was turned down by the committee. its response was ‘no follow-up’. i have, in fact, written several times. the worst case that i have reported was overturned from ‘rejected’ to ‘approved’ by 567 votes to 17, with 18 abstentions. that is why i have called this system ludicrous in the past. it really must be dealt with.
mr president, very briefly, i do not think you actually followed the rules of procedure correctly during the earlier voting session. you said ‘the voting is now open’, but you did not ask ‘have all members voted?’ before saying ‘the voting is closed’, and you did not read out the results. i think you were out of order.
mr president, i rise under rules 152 and 160 of the rules of procedure, concerning voting procedure and roll call votes. it is obvious that the rules of procedure have been abused and used in a way utterly contrary to their intention. could i ask, through you, that specialists such as mr corbett and others look very carefully at what has happened today? my understanding is that the president has the discretion to rule that any request for a roll-call vote be declared invalid. that may become a necessity when we have heavier voting sessions in the future.
mr president, i must take exception to the two points of order just made. the rules are absolutely clear on this. every group has the right to request roll-call votes. no discretionary power is given to the chair. we have always accepted that, ultimately, in any democratic chamber the majority has the right to get its way, but what we have just heard is the most intolerant position that does not allow any opposition, that does not allow any dissenting view and, if my colleagues want to understand why the european union is so unpopular with the voters out there, you need only consider your own intolerant attitude towards anyone expressing any view other than your own. (applause)
mr president, i wish to point out to mr beazley and mr rack, and perhaps to yourself, mr president, that today is the first time since i have sat in the european parliament that we can actually be confident that the results are right, because normally it is a farce! so do not moan at us, we are helping you to tidy up this place so that in the future more of this work is done in committee and we are not given hundreds and, in some cases, thousands of amendments. what we have done is entirely within the rules and all of you – in particular those who believe in this place – should learn a lesson from it.
mr president, on a point of order, for clarification of the rules as they were ruled upon earlier today. under rule 171, invoked by mr schulz, about the suspension of the sitting, it does not say – because we had finished the votes and were before an explanation of vote – that the rule could be invoked at that particular time. if the sitting was then suspended, it is precedent in this house that, when you resume the sitting, you continue with the business, and continuing with the business – based on precedent in this house and what we have done in the eight years i have been here – would be the explanations of vote. i am quite happy to come back here at whatever time is necessary to give my explanations of vote, because i want to do that for a number of reports. i would ask you what the basis of the ruling on rule 171 was, because i do not think that was in order; you know you are twisting the rules, as well as i do here, to go against the democratic wills of some members of this house. it is a strange type of democracy when you are trying to silence a minority who are just doing what they are allowed to do within the rules of procedure.
mr president, it is undoubtedly true that you, as president, could leave the chair and the assembly would be suspended. however, that is not the basis on which what happened before lunch time happened. that was on the premise of a proposal under rule 171, from mr schulz, that the house be suspended. the rule is quite clear, that when such a proposal is made there should be a speaker for, and a speaker against. that was not the case, meaning that the proposal was irregular and should not have been put to the vote, and that the decision is not binding. you should, therefore, now return to the agenda.
mr president, on a point of order, this chamber may be sovereign, as you say, but it nonetheless must follow its own rules of procedure. the suspension or closure of a sitting is covered by rule 171; i quote, ‘the sitting may be suspended or closed during a debate or a vote.’ now, this morning was not during a debate or a vote, it was after the vote. furthermore, rule 163, ‘explanations of vote’, does not allow discretion to the chair to not hear them or to change the time. it reads explicitly, ‘once the general debate has been concluded, any member may give an oral explanation on the final vote for not longer than one minute’. it is true that the rules of this house give substantial arbitrary power to the speaker. but these are two items where no such power pertains, and this house chose – in the most flagrant way – to tear up its own rules of procedure rather than delay a couple of people from having lunch. i have to say it is symbolic of the way in which the european union is proceeding with the ratification of the lisbon treaty, nay, european constitution, that you tear up your own rule book when it does not suit you, rather than tolerate an opposing point of view.
mr president, on a point of order under rule 171. just now you told the house that 19 members had sought to make speeches. before lunch we were told that there were 14 members. i know that when it comes to statistics, and particularly when there is no roll-call vote, things are a bit loose here, but could you explain the difference between those two figures?
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank vice-president frattini for those words. if parliament had codecision on this we would be in a much stronger position. i have to say to colleagues here today that i met with ngos and civil society at the very beginning, as did other shadow rapporteurs, to see what we could do. it was quite clear to me at the very beginning that if i had my way i would have a list that was endless, because human rights are so important: they are paramount and are the very reason that the institutions were established so that we never got back to those conditions that created the second world war and the appalling shadow that was cast across so many different peoples and so many different minorities. however, the reality is that we are merely consulted, which is why i have had to take on a very difficult position. it is extremely difficult for me as a gay man not to want to include specifically homophobia. however, if i am to be consistent in the application of principle in that we need to bring on board that which is not covered, then i have to forego the very things that also my heart desires. so it has been difficult. i am pleased to say that this report was adopted by 48 votes in favour, none against and 8 abstentions. that indicates that what we have here – although, indeed, there are some amendments which i did not personally support – are the wishes of the committee. i want to pay great tribute to the portuguese presidency and my colleague sitting here in the chamber who worked very closely with me, who supported parliament in order to try to achieve a position which both the council and the commission could support. i am pleased that the commissioner has listed nine out of the eighteen amendments. we are getting 50% support – of course, i want 100% support but i live in the real political world. i want the agency, above all, to succeed. the origins of the agency are the charter of fundamental rights and all the international conventions on human rights that we have in common amongst the member states. however, there are some delegations, some politicians and some member states who want the agency to fail. they do not want it to be effective, and that is why i have been absolutely specific in the demands that we are making upon this agency. i want it to succeed. i believe that the amendments that were adopted in committee will help it to succeed, while not placing upon the agency undue demands which will go beyond the resources, both human and financial. there have been suggestions amongst some of the women’s groups that this does not go far enough, but we have introduced the gender perspective and taken account of the gender institute. of course, there must be complementarity, but we must not have duplication because, again, that would waste the resources. so let me finish and let me listen – arguably the most important thing and one of the most difficult things to do in politics. let me listen to the debate, but i will not be able to support the amendments that will be placed before the plenary tomorrow for the simple principle: i said at the beginning i could not take on board a whole range of amendments and to change that attitude now would be to go back on the agreement that i reached with the shadows. of course minority languages are important, of course other areas are important, but there is nothing more important than an agency for fundamental rights which is successful in the work that we set it to do.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh thuarascáil an uasail cashman faoi ghníomhaireacht an aontais eorpaigh um chearta bunúsacha. rinne feisirí ón choiste um shaoirsí sibhialta obair den scoth ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo. tréaslaím leo agus leis an rapóirtéir. fáiltím ach go háirithe roimh na leasuithe a chinntíonn go mbeidh idirdhealú maidir le teangacha agus mionlaigh traidisiúnta i measc sainchúraimí na gníomhaireachta. iarraim ar na feisirí tacú leis na leasuithe seo amárach. d’ainmnigh na náisiúin aontaithe an bhliain seo 2008 mar bhliain idirnáisiúnta do theangacha. caithfidh an taontas eorpach a bheith páirteach san iarracht seo agus caithfidh muidne amárach a bheith páirteach san iarracht seo fosta. tá spéis ar leith agamsa san ábhar seo. leanfaidh mé ag obair ag leibhéal an aontais eorpaigh agus mé ag éileamh na hacmhainní riachtanacha maidir leis an ghaeilge mar theanga oibre den aontas agus ag leibhéal an toghlaigh áit a bhfuil mé ag tacú le feachtas ar son acht na gaeilge, reachtaíocht atá de dhíth go géar i dtuaisceart éireann chun cearta gaeilgeoirí a chosaint. níl na cearta sin ar fáil faoi láthair. beidh siad ar fáil má bhíonn siad i reachtaíocht láidir agus beidh siad le fáil má bhíonn leithéid ghníomhaireacht an aontais eorpaigh um chearta bunúsacha ábalta tabhairt faoi cheisteanna mar seo do mhuintir seo agamsa agus do dhaoine eile in áiteacha eile a ndéantar idirdhealú orthu bunaithe ar an teanga a labhraítear.
rapporteur. − mr president, i thank the commissioner for relenting on the very important issue of amendment 6, which states ‘all human beings are born equal and therefore human rights are indivisible and inviolable’. can i thank colleagues for their contributions, and can i just tell you that, when one of the non-attached members states that they are going to vote against me, when those extremists within parliament vote against me and against my report, my heart fills with joy and my brain tells me that we have got it absolutely right. because there should be no extremism when it comes to the defence of human rights, except to be extremely defensive of human rights. i would say to my good friend sophia in ’t veld that of course i agree with her, but i believe that the issue of the roma, privacy and homophobia are already covered. indeed, the roma would be covered under discrimination based on ethnicity and race. i would say to my colleague mr lambrinidis that the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights gives us the area in which we can operate on the basis of privacy, preventing trafficking and dealing with social exclusion. ms gál said it was absolutely right that it is about the workability of the agency and that is what we have to face. that is why i have included multiple discrimination. we must remember that we are not dealing solely with the areas that they can cover. these are thematic areas based on the objective foundations which are the charter of fundamental rights and the international conventions, which all of the member states have in common. to my great friend mr cem özdemir – çok teşekkür ederim! – i would say, on data protection, yes, it is covered. also, we have the data protection supervisor and we have data protection directives, and the last thing we want is duplication. it is interesting and we should celebrate. the angelilli report is coming up. it is an own-initiative report, yet here we have an absolute commitment – not an own-initiative, not a request – that the rights of the child be covered under the agency which protects fundamental rights. therefore, i congratulate the house. i urge it to vote with me. let us not bring in more, let us not dilute, let us be focused, let us get the job done – and mr president, save your gavel for another time!
rapporteur. − mr president, i was not, of course, thinking of the honourable member when i made my comment. i referred generally to the non-attached members, but specifically to the comments made by mr dillen, which i believe are extremist comments. but in no way did i mean to offend the honourable member, whose record speaks for itself.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, i would like to say at the outset that the committee on development feels very strongly that it is important for the commission to mainstream children’s rights into all aspects of development policy, seeing this as a means of achieving the millennium development goals. i know that the commission communication proposes to deal with such issues. i wish to state very clearly that we need a children’s rights approach and need to move away from a common focusing, in this debate so far, on issues such as child-trafficking, abduction and pornography. we need to ensure that we understand we are talking about the rights of children: the rights of children to be consulted; the rights of children to be listened to; and the rights of children to have the respect of adults and not be told by adults what they should be doing. i also very much welcome the fact that the lisbon treaty makes reference to children’s rights. we welcome this, because at the moment only animal rights have this kind of legal base in the european union, and we urgently needed to make this the case for children too. finally, in the wider world and in europe itself, we need to see that what we are doing is safeguarding children’s lives and generally enhancing the well-being of all the children in europe and in the wider world.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, roberta angelilli, and the other rapporteurs for their work on this important dossier, and of course to thank commissioner frattini for his encouragement for the communication and for the work that has been done by the commission in this field. while recognising that these matters are primarily those for the member states, there is also, i believe, a role for the european union, and that of course is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, where, for the first time, the rights of children are embraced. i believe that a society is best judged by the way it deals with its innocence and we are, as a european union, a society. the particular interest i have in this field is that of parental child abduction across frontiers. i have handled many cases in this sphere and there are several hundred each year between the eu member states and indeed between eu member states and our neighbour countries and beyond. while there are international conventions like the hague convention and, internally, the brussels ii convention, there are still many deficiencies. recently i was grateful to the international law firm freshfields for examining several cases under the brussels ii convention and identifying some of the problems within our own member states. i believe that the work that has been done by the european parliament and by the commission needs to be seen in the context of international developments in law. i think it is right that the old united nations convention on the rights of the child, which puts the paramountcy of the interests of the child first, is absolutely crucial. in the charter of fundamental rights, the concept of the right of a child to both parents is also introduced. that is vital and is now widespread across the world. but there are two aspects which turn on the way in which a case is handled by a court. even though this point is not contained within the report in explicit terms, we should also remember the rights of children mature enough for their wishes to be heard by a court, as in the case of my constituent, 7-year-old jessica, at the high court recently. secondly, where appropriate, independent legal representation for the child should be provided. these are two elements which i think we need to develop in the coming months.
mr president, i welcome the decision to incorporate children’s rights as one of the objectives of the eu treaty of lisbon, providing a new legal basis for children’s rights. ms angelilli’s report deals with many important issues relating to children’s well-being and protection. however, i want to emphasise acknowledgement of the fact that, for children, the poverty and social exclusion of their parents represent serious obstacles to exercising their rights. i support the report’s demand that the eu work in cooperation with the relevant un agencies, international organisations and research centres to improve the gathering of comparable statistical data on the situation of children in the eu, with a view to developing and including a larger number of indicators relating specifically to children, child poverty and social exclusion. child poverty is a neglected issue, yet one in five children in the eu lives on the brink of poverty. will this not condemn 20% of the eu’s future adults to never fulfilling their true potential? if the political will is there, then let us work together across member states to share best practice and learn from one another. we have witnessed the eu-wide campaign to make poverty in the developing world history, so why can we not have a similar campaign, across the eu, to make child poverty history?
the next item is question time (b6-0001/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
thank you, mrs doyle, you are quite right. we will take the priority questions, and then we will divide question time in half between commissioner kuneva and commissioner mccreevy, as far as we can. we are hoping to run to at least 7.30 p.m. and it may be a bit longer with the forbearance of our interpreters. i hope everybody is as content as they can be with that.
question no 31 by mairead mcguinness (h-0980/07) subject: ensuring consumers are protected from counterfeit and sub-standard medicines the safety and efficiency of the european medicine supply chain is becoming a significant concern for european consumers, and existing weaknesses in this system could have potentially disastrous consequences for patient safety. it is clear that european consumers want safe and affordable medicines. however, in ireland consumers pay a premium for their medicines, with the current medicine wholesale mark-up at 17.66%, more than double the eu average. this trend is mirrored across the eu, where the fragmented nature of the market has contributed to an associated growth in 'pharmaceutical parallel trade' (ppt). according to a report from the european alliance for access to safe medicines, counterfeit and sub-standard medicines are finding their way into the supply chain in the eu. could the commission outline its position in relation to this matter, in particular does it plan to tackle this problem by reviewing parallel trade and promoting a genuine single market in pharmaceutical products which is in the interests of consumers and appears essential to ensure that the benefits of the internal market, including affordable medicines, extend to all parts of europe's economy?
question no 32 by chris davies (h-0984/07) subject: carbon dioxide emissions what targets has the commission set itself for reducing co2 emissions generated by its activities, buildings and transport needs?
the commission will be making some major announcements on wednesday, and i expect that people everywhere will be asking then whether we practise what we preach. so to hear that only five dgs have currently signed up to emas is not very encouraging, although i cannot say that parliament can claim to be much better. it would certainly fail such a test, although action is now being taken to address the issue. does the commissioner accept that his arguments in favour of the ‘big picture changes’ that must be made by member states if we are to tackle climate change could be undermined if the commission is not seen to be acting on the fine detail – on its own implementation of these improvements?
question no 33 by claude moraes (h-0986/07) subject: protecting consumers against spam, spyware and malicious software the european commission has named the protection of consumers in the digital world among the central themes of its plans for consumer policy in the coming years. in this context, it has stated that effective and responsive enforcement mechanisms which would allow national authorities to co-operate in the combat of rogue traders who use spam and fraudulent websites are essential. what progress has the commission made in developing such mechanisms to protect consumers? in particular, what has been done in order to improve possibilities for consumers to seek redress and reclaim their money when they fall victim to spam, spyware or other malicious software?
thank you, commissioner, for that comprehensive answer. i do not know what the digital equivalent of ‘epidemic’ is, but following this christmas season we now see an epidemic of this kind of behaviour. all the independent organisations have said that. i do not want to belittle anything the commission has done; i think it has made this a priority. what i would ask, though, is that examples like the dutch example of encouraging prosecutions, encouraging isps to be free to go after these people – none of this, i feel, is coming back to consumers. is there something simple that the commission can issue for meps, to tell our consumers what you are doing and how effectively this is being measured?
question no 34 by giovanna corda (h-0965/07) subject: monitoring imports of dangerous consumer goods at the end of november the commission presented a survey of the system for monitoring the safety of consumer goods, which revealed numerous shortcomings in the application of the existing directives in the member states but also with regard to traceability and the responsibilities of industry, distributors and importers. can the commission indicate the following, in particular? what specific measures does it intend to adopt to improve monitoring by member states in accordance with directive 2001/95/ec oj l 11, 15.1.2002, p. 4. on general product safety and cooperation with customs services? what measures will it take to ensure traceability of imported consumer goods? what measures will it take to induce manufacturers, importers and distributors of imported consumer goods to shoulder their responsibility and, if appropriate, to penalise them?
question no 35 by manolis mavrommatis (h-0966/07) subject: profiteering by food shops most member states experience considerable fluctuations in food prices, very often because shops are able to exploit periods of mass consumption, such as public holidays. milk, in particular, is a product with a constantly rising price in all member states. does the commission monitor the commercial activities of food shops and supermarkets during periods of higher consumption? is it collaborating with national consumer protection organisations to find an effective solution to profiteering?
i have just been informed, unfortunately, that we have a problem with the availability of our commissioners. mr mccreevy has to leave us at 7.20 p.m. therefore, what i would intend to do, commissioner kuneva, with your permission, is to change now to commissioner mccreevy, but if you could stay with us to take some additional questions at the end, that would be most helpful.
question no 41 by marian harkin (h-0962/07) subject: the review of the single market in light of the recent commission publication on the review of the single market, what measures does the commission intend to take to promote the financial education of consumers, financial inclusion and adequate redress for consumers, particularly in light of the recent sub prime crisis in the us and the current financial turbulence?
it is unlikely that we will get to your question. it is regrettable that we are in the situation we are in. your question will almost certainly be answered in writing.
question no 42 by georgios papastamkos (h-0970/07) subject: markets in financial instruments from 1 november 2007, the new european framework for the operation of markets in financial instruments entered into force. does the commission have any information concerning the number of european investment companies and institutions likely to benefit from the new regulatory framework? is any specific data available for greece? according to commissioner charlie mccreevy, the cost of capital is expected to fall in time. on what information is this prediction based? is it possible for this prediction to be made more specific regarding individual sectors and the percentage of the anticipated decrease in each case? does the commission have information concerning cross-border trading in shares and investment services? what are the current inward and outward figures for greece in this sector?
question no 43 by colm burke (h-0972/07) subject: irish county development plans in june of this year the commission requested information from ireland in relation to certain irish county development plans and the rules for granting of planning permission which could be judged as restrictive. i understand that after the irish government was granted a one month extension, a response was sent to the commission at the end of september. could the commission comment on the current state of play of proceedings following the irish government's response?
question no 44 by gay mitchell (h-0974/07) subject: health insurance industry in ireland will the commission make a statement on the state of the health insurance sector in ireland, especially in light of the recent reasoned opinion requesting ireland to abolish the exemption in place for vhi from certain eu rules?
question no 36 by jim higgins (h-0978/07) subject: online airline ticket sales could the commission state why instead of publishing the list of websites found to be in breach of community legislation regarding the accurate advertising of websites it allowed their names to be covered up, indicating right of reply, to the detriment of the consumer who will unwittingly use a site that they could have avoided if the commission had taken the step to publish the names in mid november?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
i should like to thank commissioner kuneva for waiting. that concludes question time.
thank you, mr crowley. i think you will be aware that today has been a difficult day for one reason and another. we have had almost an hour and a half, and we have done our best to accommodate everybody’s wishes. as you will know, we are also hoping to improve matters with the reform working group, but thank you for your comments, and thank you to our interpreters. (the sitting was suspended at 19.45 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, lifelong learning is something the uk has always excelled at. our open university was the first establishment of its kind in the world, founded in the 1960s and based on a concept dating from the 1920s. hundreds of thousands of so-called ‘mature students’ have graduated from the open university, many of them graduates returning to their studies. therefore i think the uk is fine when it comes to lifelong learning and, with respect, i do not think we need to accept any more interference from this place in education, which is still a national competence. however, just making it available is never enough for this place. the next step, of course, is compulsion. after all, what is the point of providing something that is not used? but, then, you do have a history in this area of billions of euros and other currencies wasted by eu institutions, and nation states blithely following orders is par for the course. but bringing this closer to home – specifically to bureaucrats and politicians in this house – it is now obvious to me that no matter how long you live, you simply do not learn! you do not even want to listen. you just carry on with the projects and to hell with anyone who might not agree or have a different point of view. i am reminded of the old saying, attributed to sun tzu but famously used by kennedy: those who make peaceful protest impossible make violent protest inevitable. if you do not learn from your mistakes, you are doomed to repeat them.
in writing. − british conservatives are very much in favour of larger airports being subject to extra scrutiny where they hold a dominant market position. however, we already have a strong regulatory system in the united kingdom and we therefore feel that this is an unnecessary interference which could have an adverse effect on regional airports, which have a vital impact on local economies. we have tried to improve the measure in order to maintain an 'opt out' on a national basis or at least to lift the threshold so that most regional airports are excluded, and although these attempts have not yet been successful, we will return to them at second reading. in the meantime we will reserve our position.
in writing. − i welcome the report and what it seeks to achieve. through the introduction of greater transparency in the way airport charges are calculated i feel it creates a level playing field and stimulates competition in the sector. the plans will help scotland’s airports in competing with its british counterparts, especially by reducing the dominant position occupied by major travel hubs like london.
in writing. − while this report has a number of good ideas on making airport charges more transparent and bringing environmental considerations into the calculation for the first time, we must, as ever, be careful not to throw the baby out with the bath water. in my constituency, scotland, we have dozens of small airports, and air travel is not a luxury – it is a necessity serving fragile communities. i have therefore supported amendments to exempt airports in the outermost regions from the new regime, and look forward to the production of a framework that takes account of the fragile nature of many communities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report. i see the implementation of the rotterdam convention on prior informed consent (pic) as a positive step in this policy area. ensuring that prior consent is given from third countries receiving dangerous substances helps ensure that developing countries do not fall victim to the dumping of restricted chemicals in their backyard without their agreement. though this is an encouraging move in the right direction, the implementation of the measures needs to be closely followed by the commission.
in writing. − while i do not disagree that it may be desirable to reduce co2 emissions in an overall environmental context, it is not for the undemocratic eu to decide these issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report. i strongly believe that the co2 target of 120g/km by 2012 is one that must be met and is essential in fighting climate change. though i acknowledge that member states need to engage in the funding of research and development for the automobile sector in this area, i feel that the industry itself should also contribute and demonstrate a further commitment to reducing the effects of climate change. i also approve of the directive calling for the information and consultation of workers on this issue.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of the chatzimarkakis report, even though i believe that the car industry has to do more to reduce emissions from the vehicles it produces. it is very easy on the one hand to pick out the motor car as the chief sinner in all things environmental, and certainly the motor car that we have at the moment leaves a lot to be desired in this area. but we must work with industry and educate them on the need to produce more environmentally-friendly cars. the motor industry is a big employer of people and contributes considerably to local, regional and national economies. it therefore cannot be treated in a cavalier way, as some members of this house believe. one area that concerns me is in this report is the clear view that fiscal measures, and fiscal harmonisation, should be used as a way of promoting the car 21 concept. for me, this is a move too far, and the one area i cannot support. however, i welcome this report and support it because overall it adopts a balanced and practical approach.
in writing. − in my view the tackling of the obstacles apparent in cross-border trade does not lie in harmonisation of taxation, which should fall under the remit of individual national legislatures. i therefore, abstained from the vote on this issue.
in writing. − mr president, sometimes i do wonder if the effort we put into reports in this place is worth it. taxation policy must remain a competence of member states and any moves from anywhere to extend community competence to this policy field will be met with opposition by our constituents, national governments and businesses. accordingly, while i do not denigrate the hard work that has clearly gone into it, i disagree with much of this report and even question the need for it.
in writing. − this is a non-legislative report which has undergone substantial revision in committee as a direct result of our input. as a result, there should be no automatic need to divide on party-political lines, though we have tabled a few additional amendments for the plenary session. in its raw original form, it called for more prescriptive eu legislation in many areas. it now welcomes the commission's greater emphasis on regulatory simplification and the reduction of administrative burdens, and the strong focus on helping smes. it recognises the prime role of member states in promoting the health and safety agenda. we are proud of the role that we have played in significantly softening the original approach to make the report acceptable. safeguarding the health and safety of workers is a concern for us all.
in writing. − i found that the report was a very encouraging step towards ensuring a safer workplace. the need for increased funding to guarantee health and safety measures are met in areas such as mining, steelmaking and shipbuilding is essential, especially in such high risk industries. the call to protect health workers from blood-borne infections, and to introduce new legislation on occupational diseases, takes account of the profound changes in the dangers that workers now face in their day-to-day work. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − mr president, i am delighted to congratulate our rapporteur on a balanced report taking account of an important strategy, as the eu has been instrumental in raising health and safety standards at work across the eu and the community strategy to 2012 looks set to continue that work. however, we must always be mindful that there does come a time when standards are sufficiently high and the focus must go to enforcement, not new legislative or regulatory burdens. we must keep an eye on this area to ensure that a proper balance is struck, and this report takes us in that direction.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to address some remarks to prime minister janša. president-in-office, my group comes to you with one simple message: ‘europe expects’. it expects 2008 to be a year of progress. we expect that progress to start now. and we expect your presidency to rise to the challenge. i have no doubts you will. was it not a feisty slovene who, raising his fist against a mighty empire, first declared: ‘all roads do not lead to rome!’? well, neither do they lead to paris, and this is not the start of the french presidency. it is an historic first for the countries which entered our union in 2004. president-in-office, your country may be small in size but we know that it is mighty in spirit, and we know too that europe’s davids often make better presidencies than its goliaths. true to form, your presidency’s programme combines quiet ambition and a consensual style, which have the potential to unite our continent. such unity will be vital to the early ratification of the lisbon treaty and to mustering support for an interinstitutional agreement on how to govern europe under that new treaty. on interinstitutional cooperation, we would welcome much dialogue with you and a greater presence of your government in this chamber. we regret that your seat was empty yesterday when we heard from the first guest in our year of intercultural dialogue. your programme speaks of the importance of internal dynamism – and that, mr schulz, is the way to create jobs and to maintain jobs in this continent: internal dynamism. we rely on you, president-in-office, to push forward the single market in energy, in telecoms, in health-care services. the european union has a hard enough time convincing its citizens that it adds value to their daily lives, so, in a clear-cut case for faster medical care, for lower bills, for greater consumer choice, we would be mad to push proposals for patients’ rights off the table just because they are controversial. in other areas, you will have to flex your muscles a great deal more – particularly with your presidential counterparts who have a vested interest in promoting nuclear energy as the panacea of climate change. solidarity and burden-sharing are the key to success in cutting emissions and meeting renewable energy targets. in 2008, our union must show, as president barroso said, that it can turn fine words about combating climate change into action. progress in the western balkans is rightly one of your priorities and your experience and understanding of the area will be a bonus to our union. nonetheless, i suspect that maintaining, as you do, that the situation in bosnia-herzegovina is worse than that in kosovo does not reflect majority opinion in the union. nor am i sure it is a good way to motivate the people of bosnia-herzegovina. if it is designed to appease serbia, it will not work. sweetening the pill of kosovo’s independence with a stabilisation and association agreement may be a way forward. but, while mr đelić readies his pen to come to brussels, my group reiterates – in the strongest possible terms – that there can be no stabilisation and association agreement without serbia’s full cooperation with the icty. (applause) serge brammertz, the new chief prosecutor, has yet to see fresh evidence of cooperation. none of us, president-in-office, wish to see serbia remain on europe’s sidelines, and your presidency’s courteous and constructive attitude may well bring it in from the cold and deliver ratko mladić. but in the mean time, as you say in slovenia, ‘pray for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing’. (applause)
mr president, may i warmly welcome the prime minister to parliament and wish him well in his period as president-in-office of the council. i feel sure that slovenia will carry out the task ahead with great competence. i welcome the emphasis given to the next stage in the lisbon strategy. there remains much to be done to persuade member states to reform their economies and i hope that the presidency will advocate greater liberalisation, reforms to labour markets and ensure european business benefits from globalisation. europe needs to be more competitive, more focused on creating new jobs and less concerned with protecting a social model that hampers employment growth. i want to see action on completing the internal market and, in particular, the telecoms sector. i welcomed the announcement by the commissioner last year on further liberalising the telecoms market. we now have the opportunity to reassess the existing framework to get rid of bottlenecks and to map out a more competitive future for this crucial industry. i look forward to hearing in the committee on industry, research and energy, where i am also the ppe-de group spokesman, how the presidency intends to take matters forward. i also welcome the commitment to pursue vigorously the energy and climate change agenda. the eu has established tough carbon emissions targets and it is now incumbent upon member states to follow through with real action, and not just words, to ensure burden sharing does not just end up as load shedding. i read with concern in the press this week that some member states are trying to undermine the eu agreement of last year on climate change, and we will pay particular attention to see that the british government lives up to the commitments it has entered into.
mr president, i am told that, when slovenia opened its borders recently, the crowd there compared notes on how much they had smuggled across during the communist days, even to the extent of having a model confessional box there for anyone who confessed their sins, who was then rewarded with coffee and brandy, so i can understand why president barroso rushed to be part of these celebrations! but, prime minister, you gave us, initially, a moving account of your country and indeed your own history. you talked with pride of slovenia and you talked with some emotion of your experience in the prison cell. i hope that those are the emotions you will bring to the presidency – the belief in human rights and the determination that europe shall have that pride too. there are two areas that i want to raise with you as you do that. one is on our environment, because alongside human rights and our lisbon agenda goes a clean environment, a healthy environment and, indeed, a healthy people. that environment needs to move on from bali, which was a great talking shop. we now need the action. we need real action, realistic action, and that must start next week with our climate change package. on the health field, we need legal certainty on cross-border health. there is a great new opportunity for europe’s citizens – its patients – if we get this right. we waited and had this delayed. that must wait no longer. we must make sure, please, that it now comes forward. if we do not, it is not an option to do nothing. the alternative is that the lawyers go on making policy for us. thirdly, on that, i ask you to pay particular attention to mental health. if there is any criticism of slovenia i have, it is the slowness with which it has enacted its mental health laws. now you have an opportunity to lead on mental health following the green paper and i hope you will take that up. you are a small country, a proud country, and the small countries of europe are usually the best presidents of the european union. i wish you success in that. i have confidence that slovenia, under your leadership, will meet that pride in success and achievement by the time you finish in six months’ time.
we have an announcement before we start with regard to this afternoon’s debates. i should like to propose bringing forward the debate on the report by díaz de mera garcía consuegra on europol and taking it as the second item before the council and commission statements on the situation in pakistan. the order of business this afternoon would, therefore, be as follows: from 15.00 to 18.00: first of all, the council and commission statements on the situation in kenya, then the report by díaz de mera garcía consuegra on europol, then the council and commission statements on the situation in pakistan; then at 18.00, as normal, we would go on to question time with the council. are there any comments?
thank you for that point, mr swoboda; it clearly is an exception. but i thank the house for its agreement. (parliament agreed to the request)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr matsakis, it will be discussed at the conference of presidents tomorrow but what i would say is that this is an important vote, so it is probably in all our interests that it is by roll-call vote. mr bonde has asked for the floor.
thank you, mr bonde, we have noted that. work is ongoing on that project, but now i think the house would like to move on with this morning’s vote.
if you do not wish me to tell you i will not, but it is, clearly, good to be certain. – after the vote on paragraph 60:
madam president, could you at least put the results on the screens in front of us if you are not going to call them out?
you just have to raise your eyes if you wish to see the result. - after the vote:
madam president, i am advised by the services that each additional roll-call vote costs eur 400, which makes the cost of yesterday’s escapade in excess of eur 25 000. so, i would ask those who are calling for roll-call votes all the time whether they think that is a good use of taxpayers’ money.
madam president, if the cost of every roll-call vote is really eur 400, i suggest that this chamber is running itself with all the efficiency that it also applies to the common agricultural policy, to structural aid, to international development and to the rest of the european union budget. surely we can do it more cheaply than that!
president of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, i wanted to intervene after the vote on the lechner report. i did not want to interrupt the voting, but i merely wanted to thank the ppe-de group for supporting the common position so that we now have a very strong majority, which will be a very good signal to both consumers and businesses that we intend to open up the market and protect consumers. madam president, i know that you have taken a very active role in this dossier and i think it is a credit to all the parties that we just got a tremendous majority in the end after many doubts and reservations.
madam president, as someone who has followed, through the committee on budgetary control, a number of the court of auditors’ reports concerning misappropriations and fraudulent spending of monies from the agriculture budget, i must say how pleased i am to see this parliament welcoming new technology in many different ways, especially in this field of agriculture. i hope that in future years this information – as one of the amendments in this report suggested – can be spread via the internet to all those people across the european union who would like to see it, especially to the various national audit authorities in each member state so they can see, for example, if in greece they are claiming more acreage for olive-producing land than they actually have. i am also standing up because i want to talk about the constitutional treaty. i want to make sure that this house gets a say and that people get a referendum in the future, and that is why i am giving explanations of votes on all reports.
madam president, it may not be obvious why, as a representative of london, i am giving an explanation of vote on a matter concerning farming and the common agricultural policy. but we have to recognise that the common agricultural policy also affects consumers right across the eu in the form of higher prices. therefore it is incumbent on all of us to make sure that we are monitoring how taxpayers’ money is spent in a number of areas, including the common agricultural policy. i understand that, in response to the common agricultural policy management needs, there is considerable need for information on land use, and that is why i think we all welcome the use of better technology. i hope that many of my constituents will benefit in terms of providing that technology. i also have to agree with my colleague that one of the reasons i am giving an explanation of vote is because the people of europe and the people of britain should be given a say on the constitutional treaty in the form of a referendum.
i would like to remind colleagues that we are taking explanations of vote on the reports concerned. if anybody tries to speak about anything else, i am afraid i will stop your speech, in accordance with the rules.
madam president, i will with pleasure speak on the report itself. the graefe zu baringdorf report, explaining as it does the new methods to address fraud and agrarian policy under the common agricultural policy (cap), is dealing with one of the most inefficient, expensive, wasteful, bureaucratic and amoral systems of farm support known to man, and no amount of agro-meteorological gimmickry can rescue it. extrapolate from the experience of the cap; infer from it. before handing new powers to any organisation, we should first look at how it exercises the powers it already controls. agriculture has been, since 1960, the european union’s chief competence. look at the mess it has made – the ecological destruction, the destruction of surpluses, the poverty inflicted on africa. is this the institution that we now want to put in charge of foreign policy, of criminal justice, of defence, and if it is, should we not consult the people in the referendums that we were promised? the elder cato is supposed to have ended every speech, whatever its subject, with the demand that carthage be destroyed. i shall end mine with the demand that the lisbon treaty be put to the people: pactio olisipio censenda est!
madam president, i do not think any of us should be unduly concerned about new technology, but it is important that it is properly used and not abused. but there is much abuse, particularly in southern europe in regard to the common agricultural policy, and i trust this technology may do something towards eliminating this. if it does, we could save much more than the eur 400 that someone complained about when it comes to bringing transparency to voting. i note that this report talks about remote sensing. well, i would also say this: if europe could get a sense of democratic sensing, then it would sense across europe a great resentment at the shutting out of citizens and the denying to them of the right to express their opinion on the most important matter, namely the matter of how they should be governed.
madam president, the common agricultural policy is a leftover from the 20th century. we are seeing more and more demand for agricultural products driven by demographics and biofuels. the idea that we as the european union should spend a large part of our budget on subsidising agricultural production is, quite simply, out of date and, therefore, there is no reason why we need better technology to do the wrong thing. we should stop doing the wrong thing. i have to say that i voted in favour of this measure as a loyal conservative following the whip, but i did so with great reluctance. in addition, i have to question the right of this house – the democratic legitimacy of this house – to adopt this measure and any other measure given that we reject the verdict of the people on the lisbon treaty.
madam president, i sense that this measure of remote sensing would actually be very efficient with regard to cutting out the bureaucracy that some of my farmers in the south east of england have to suffer at present with regard to tagging. if this mechanism is to work properly, i recognise that it would be more efficient in the operation of the extremely inefficient bureaucratic system which we recognise as the cap. so in that regard, as a loyal conservative, i followed the whip and supported this measure. however, i recognise that an overhaul of the complete cap system is long overdue and i call upon our colleagues in this parliament who recognise the same thing to accelerate that process. i do, however, sense – and i feel – that if we can remote sense cows, why do we not remote sense the people’s views about the referendum?
madam president, i am very happy to rise to explain my vote on the graefe zu baringdorf report, where i voted against it. i did so because any kind of remote-sensing apparatus is bound to lead to longer-distance surveillance. where will that end? we do not wish the people of europe to be surveyed by some kind of remote sensor – cameras in the sky – because that is exactly what the graefe zu baringdorf report will lead to by extension. is this, we have to ask ourselves, an excuse to give work for the galileo project, the enormous expense of which, if not used there, would have paid for all the roll-call votes in this house for the next ten years? if the eu wants to survey anything, let it survey the wishes of the people of europe and hold a referendum on the new constitution signed in lisbon, without delay.
madam president, i know you actually share our views on this referendum because i know you personally want one yourself, because it would give legitimacy to this place. but leaving that political difference aside, i – happily – am not a conservative, therefore i do not have to vote blindly for complete nonsense. i can vote with common sense, and i voted against the baringdorf report because i find the whole idea of the spy in the sky and satellites deeply distasteful and extremely frightening. i think it can only lead to long-term abuse. it is bound to happen – and i know our lady friend down here, who is all motherhood and apple pie, thinks it is absolutely wonderful – but of course we have got to look at the next generation. i am afraid i have a deep distrust of politicians. if they can abuse a power, they always do, and i see this as being absolutely no different, so i voted against.
madam president, i should like to explain why i voted against the report by mr graefe zu baringdorf. the cap has done nothing but ruin our farming industry in the uk for well over 30 years; we do not want interference from the eu; this will extend their interference yet again. so the reason for voting against it is that we would like to get the powers of running our own agriculture back to britain. however, there is very little chance of that while we ignore the votes of the people in france and holland in the referendum that we should be given on the constitution.
madam president, on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection where this report has been gestating for a long period of time in both readings, it is well known that i have had some severe criticism of it from its early stages where it was confusing new products that are available in one market – such as the uk market, such as mortgages where you can offset your credit balance with the same bank against your mortgage – which under initial proposals would have been banned in this report, to where we have now, after six years, new concerns – even though we have been talking about this report for six years – about the early repayment of credit costs. this is an amazingly important piece of legislation. it will affect huge numbers of people including anyone that owns a home in my constituency. i was talking about it in a conservative meeting in the village of harpole at the house of a man called michael orton-jones who raised it with me personally, about the consumer credit directive and the money-laundering directives that are passed in this house. we have got to be much more careful in the way that we deal with this sort of very important legislation.
madam president, i represent london, the greatest city in the world, which happens to be home to europe’s two largest financial districts: firstly, the city of london, which, as we all know, is the pre-eminent financial force in the world, and, secondly, the docklands – canary wharf – which used to trade in all manner of goods all over the world, and now it trades in financial services all over the world. i think it was that great group of swedish philosophers who said: ‘money, money, money, i work all day, i work all night to pay the bills i have to pay, ain’t it sad. but in my dreams i have a plan. i’ll get myself a wealthy man.’ in my case that is not going to be true, because i do not happen to subscribe to that particular taste. but what i will say is that it is important for consumers right across europe that we continue to look at ways to make it easier to have access to consumer credit, not only for my constituents in london but also for the financial services industry.
mr kamall, i am trying to take this very seriously, but i hope it is not going to degenerate into the radio programme just a minute that we know so well in the uk. (laughter)
madam president, one minute without repetition, deviation or – what was the other one? hesitation! quite so. let us start, then, from first principles. why does the european union need to have a policy on the harmonisation of consumer credit laws? there seems to me to be a contextual misunderstanding behind this report. free trade and open markets do not require common laws on every aspect of commercial activity. in fact, if anything, the opposite is true. free markets depend upon diversity, variety, pluralism and, although a degree of light regulation at national level may sometimes be in order, that does not equate to euro-harmonisation of every aspect of market activity. this is important because it seems to me that the same conceptual error lies behind the extension of eu jurisdiction in the various fields proposed in the lisbon treaty. as in the field of consumer protection, so in the fields of justice and home affairs, foreign affairs, defence and all the rest. if these areas are to be transferred largely or wholly to brussels, we ought at least to have the courtesy to consult our constituents first. the treaty of lisbon should be put to the people: pactio olisipio censenda est!
madam president, harmonisation, as we all know, has been a primary tool of the eu since its inception. it has reached into every facet of our lives and it is quite clear that it is a strategy – a strategy, of course, to diminish the relevance and the import of national decisions and the ability to take national decisions and thereby diminish national institutions. so it has been the modus operandi of intensifying european integration and it is something therefore which i come to with quite a hostile attitude. because fundamentally i believe in the right of member states to govern within their boundaries that which affects their citizens. there is one aspect of harmonisation we could help on. we could harmonise giving to the citizens of europe the right to have their say on the lisbon treaty.
madam president, i think it is relevant when making an explanation of vote actually to say how we voted. in my case i voted in favour of this measure, again as a loyal conservative, again following the whip and again, had i been left to make my own decision, i would have voted against it, for the reasons very clearly set out by some of my colleagues, particularly mr hannon’s reference to free markets requiring diversity.
madam president, i can ask the honourable member if he can give way to me. i just wondered if he could maybe re-assess his comments because, this being a second reading report, there was a ... (the president cut off the speaker)
sorry, but we will have the explanation of vote from mr helmer. each speaker has one minute in which to give an explanation of vote. mr helmer, please continue.
madam president, i agree that credit should be a matter for national governments to decide, subject to local custom and practice. the amount of credit taken across borders is not sufficient to justify harmonisation, but may i suggest that the european union itself is running out of credit with citizens because it refuses to take the necessary action, through referendums, to legitimise itself?
madam president, this reminds me of my days in the house of commons. if this report in the slightest way could have helped mr brown and this inept labour government back home not to have had the northern rock crisis, if this report had been in any way useful in teaching this labour government back home how to run an economy, well, i might have said this report is a good one. but, being a loyal conservative i had to support it; i followed the whip. but if we talk about credit, credit means trust, and if the european union cannot trust its citizens and the citizens of europe cannot trust the european institutions, is that why we are not going for a referendum? because we do not trust our citizens to decide in the right way?
madam president, i voted in this report in order to help member states and i therefore pick out these bits: amendment 46, split vote – member states’ own laws may not be waived. i voted for that and i am glad to see that i was supported. i voted for amendment 9, part 1 – extending areas in which an obligation shall not apply. i am sorry to see that failed. i voted for amendment 29, where it states that compensation must be according to national law. i am sorry to see that failed as well. i voted, therefore, in order to help member state governments, but that should not be read to mean that i want a member state government to interfere in the affairs of finance houses and banks. as my colleague mr deva pointed out, they are signally ill-equipped to do so. in the case of northern rock, they have spent half the treasury money on trying to rescue it, and who knows if that is at an end. what we know is at an end are the referendums on the lisbon treaty, and that should not be so.
madam president, i have a confession to make. i have absolutely no qualifications whatsoever for this job and yet i find myself sitting here helping to make legislation that affects around 400 million people. when i look around the full chamber, i fear that very many of the members share my lack of qualifications, looking at the level of debate we seem to get here. the people, the citizens of the member states, have an enormous amount of intelligence collectively, yet we deny them the right to make their own decisions. in my view, this is in an area that politicians should keep well out of and give the people their own decisions; in particular, please let them have a referendum on the eu constitution.
madam president, i came to this report actually with some trepidation, because i am always aware that many of these reports call for an extension of powers in this place that we do not actually have already. in my constituency i represent a town called rothley in leicestershire, which is where the mccanns live. they have been very active in calling upon this parliament to be more active in holding registers of missing children and various other matters. i also represent in the town of northampton a new charity called ‘kidsaid’ founded by a gentleman called david mackintosh, who again had strong opinions that most of this report was actually very, very good. however, as is always the case in this house, political correctness took over, and you look at amendments 162, 163 and 164 and you see how this place tries to extend its powers. there is a motto which is used around this place: if you do not succeed, redefine success. it is what you have done on the lisbon treaty, and i very much hope that the people in my constituency get to have a say on that.
madam president, i rise to offer an explanation of vote on the angelilli report ‘towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child’. i note in the explanatory statement that the rapporteur says she ‘wishes to point out that the aim of this report is not to draw up a list of problems to be resolved or rights to be taken into account as a matter of priority’. i represent a constituency, london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world, and there are a number of children in my constituency. in fact, i am the father of two children and, as the great philosopher once said, i believe that children are our future. therefore, it is important that we do take account of the rights of children. but i really have to question whether this should be done at eu level. let us look, for example, at whether we want young adolescents to be given information and education on that dirty word ‘sexual and reproductive rights’. i think we should be very careful in looking for local solutions – and give the people of britain a say on a referendum on the constitution.
madam president, disraeli once replied to a delegation with the phrase ‘to the liberalism that they profess, i prefer the liberties we enjoy, to the rights of man, the rights of englishmen’. our national tradition of rights is not merely different from the european conception of universal entitlements; it is incompatible. we point to specific liberties, ones at specific moments guaranteed in specific charters, whether magna carta, the bill of rights or in simple statute acts; we do not put our faith in universalist human rights codes interpreted by judges for whom we cannot vote. i have to say, our tradition has had more success than that pursued by some of the continental states which have taken the universalist path. we have not fallen, as other countries have, either to revolution or to dictatorship. we believe that all rights are residual in the individual. as aldous huxley once put it, ‘liberties are not given, they are taken’. that is why i fundamentally oppose the incorporation of the eu charter in the lisbon treaty without a referendum. the people must be consulted: pactio olisipio censenda est!
madam president, there are serious issues here and there are serious moral issues. certainly my vote was motivated in great measure by consideration of some of those. i find portions of this report offensive. i find it offensive to take the position that one must impose upon children what someone perceives to be, in their view, the reproductive rights for adolescents that we find in recital l and in paragraphs 162, 163 and 164 etc. it does seem to me wrong and inappropriate to have foisted upon one society ideological and morally prejudicial values which might be at variance with the established ethical outlook of a particular region. it is that which i fundamentally object to and, as mr hannan has said, it is that which the charter will bring to us more and more. that is why i want my citizens to be able to agree or disagree.
madam president, i voted against this measure. for the first time we come to an item where the conservative whip was a free vote and i took advantage of that freedom. i agree very much with what my colleagues have already said. this measure contains much that i agree with: it contains a great deal of motherhood and apple pie, and we all agree with motherhood and apple pie. but, on the other hand, it proposes that we provide sex education for children in order to reduce teenage pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. it is my experience that if you tell children about something and teach them how to do it, the first thing is that they want to go out and do it, and we should not be surprised if they do! we hear far too much about adolescent reproductive rights and not about reproductive responsibilities. we should be more responsible in our approach to children, and it should be exercised by parents and locally. in conclusion, i believe that, before we go ahead with this, we should have a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
madam president, i am very disappointed by this report and i have to say, taking advantage of the free vote, i voted against much of the report. this report is not about the rights of children. it is about the right of children to have sex and the right of children to have abortions, which i find quite difficult to accept. but what about the rights of children and their parents to decide the future of europe, and the future of the lisbon treaty, and the future of where we are going? after all, all these institutions are not being built for us – they are being built for our children. are we going to ask what they and their parents feel and want to say about how europe is going to develop? no. we shall decide, without any rights being conferred on them to tell themselves or us what their own destiny should be. this is all wrong. (applause)
madam president, this report is entitled ‘adult education: it is never too late to learn’. i wish the european commission and those who want the lisbon treaty to go through would learn from that statement themselves. adult education is one of the most important parts of the education system. lifelong learning is something that i think most in this house will agree is a very good thing. we all had amazing teachers when we were at school and we all remember them. i had a brilliant mathematics teacher who taught me there were three kinds of people: those who can count, and those who cannot. i had a brilliant science teacher who taught me that radioactive cats had 18 half lives. but the most important thing is, i guess, a phrase that you will recognise, a phrase that the youth of today are using more and more. ‘we don’t need no education; we don’t need no thought control’. what we are doing with the lisbon treaty is putting another ‘brick in the wall’ between the voters who put us here and the european elites who abuse them.
madam president, i should just like to acknowledge how patient you have been during these explanations of vote. thank you very much for laughing at some of the jokes as well. you may be aware that i represent london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world. in london there are a number of educational institutions. i myself went to school in london; i went to the london school of economics to do my master’s course. however, what i would like to say in regard to this particular explanation of vote is that we should not underestimate the role of the further education sector in lifelong learning. in particular, there are some very excellent institutions: bromley college, with its excellent head, peter jones – i would like to put that on record – and westminster college. we all deserve a say on the referendum on the constitution.
i could return the flattery and say that up until now i thought we were doing quite well, but it is beginning to get a little repetitive.
madam president, may i add my thanks, alongside those to yourself, to your staff and to the interpreters for patience and good humour. let me ask what any of this has to do with brussels? under what treaty article, indeed under what possible consideration of common sense is adult learning an eu competence? most of us accept that there is a case for multi-state initiatives to deal with plainly cross-border issues; i can accept that argument – or at least an argument for a coordinated european strategy on, let us say, pollution or tariff reduction, perhaps elements of aviation and so on. although, even here, european coordination does not equate to eu jurisdiction. but, adult learning? surely this, of all fields, is one that ought to be determined by national electorates through their own proper democratic mechanisms and procedures. why do we always assume that the gentleman in brussels knows better than the ordinary voter? that same unlovely assumption lies behind the eu constitution, now called the lisbon treaty, and that is why we should put that treaty to the people: pactio olisipio censenda est!
madam president, there is much of apple pie and motherhood about this report. but the fundamental importance of it is this: it signifies and typifies a belief that brussels has a right to set agendas and to dictate to member states how they should prioritise issues and expenditure that quite patently are within their own domain and should be exclusively so, because any region has the right to decide within its limited budget what its priorities are. if adult learning and increased expenditure is a priority, it should be so decided by that region or that nation, not by brussels and not because of brussels but because it is right for those circumstances in itself. we all learn – i have learnt much since i came here in 2004. what i have learnt most is the utter contempt in which the european elite hold their citizens and that is why they are denying the citizens the fundamental right of a vote.
madam president, i can tell you that, on this occasion, i voted against the measure, but i also voted in line with the conservative whip, and this time i did so with a good will because i would have intended to vote against it anyway for the reasons that have been so clearly set out by my friends and colleagues, especially by mr hannan and mr allister. this is nothing to do with the european union. i am in favour of education. i am in favour of adult education. i am absolutely against brussels deciding how it should be done. like mr hannan, i am unable to work out any basis in the treaties on which it should be done. we have no legitimacy in terms of the treaties for passing a measure like this. we equally have no legitimacy in the face of the rejection of the constitution in france and in holland for passing the same measure. we should now have referendums across the european union on this question.
madam president, on a point of order, could i, being an adult and having had some education, ask mr hannon, who has, obviously, greater education than i, what his latin expression means?
i am sure he will tell you after we have closed the sitting!
madam president, this has been one of the liveliest debates in this european parliament since its inception. had we done this before we might have had the television cameras here and our constituents might find out what we are doing instead of these boring, turgid things we do day in, day out. let me now turn to adult learning. it is never too late to learn, it says. this surely is a matter for subsidiarity: it is up to the nation states to decide what their priorities are. it is surely not for the brussels commission, surely not for the european parliament to decide whether adult learning is imperative or not! but it also says – does it not? – that it is never too late to learn, and surely one of the things we need to learn very fast is that we cannot divide the people of europe from their decision-makers. we must enjoin them on how we want to run the european union and, therefore, we must have a referendum.
madam president, i voted against this measure and i did so primarily because, you see, i am a schoolmaster. this measure without doubt leads directly, by linkage, to the european qualifications framework, which is a hijack. it is going to get people to study at their traditional universities, take their qualifications there, and then overstamp them with a new document with the eu logo, the eu crest, the eu motto, with no reference to the great university or college from which they got their learning. that is a distinct and very terrible denial of a seat of learning – and i make that remark for all the universities of europe and not just those famous ones in britain. to get back to the question of adult learning, i have a suggestion to make to you. let us by all means encourage adult learning. give every adult in the eu a copy of the lisbon treaty and then ask them to vote on it.
madam president, yes, i voted against this report. my explanation is that the uk independence party supports the return of the grants system for the uk, and i would like to point out that it is our membership of the eu that caused it to be abolished in england and wales in the first place. however, it is up to member states, and not the eu, to decide on tax incentives and cuts for employers who cooperate with adult learning. as with most things, we need less interference from the eu, not more. as i see that i am very well within my time, may i add that the coming ratification of the european constitution, despite its rejection in two referendums, is undemocratic, cowardly and illegitimate.
time, but not your subject.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i feel that the prolongation of any proposal seeking to contribute to making the common agricultural policy more precise in its distribution can only be a positive step to ensure a fair deal for scottish farmers. the ability to more accurately estimate yields and make related information more freely available will allow for the improvement of a policy that so far lacks an image of fairness, transparency and environmental sensitivity.
in writing. − the call for a harmonisation of the laws on consumer credit across europe is one that i agree with. the report not only creates an internal market in credit for consumers but also outlines a set of requirements to ensure a fair deal for both the consumer and creditors. the rules in this area need to be consumer friendly, especially on the subject of early repayment and compensation, and in my opinion the report adequately addresses these concerns. the harmonisation of advertising will also help ensure that customers across europe are equally well informed when taking consumer credit related decisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it to be a comprehensive statement, full of good proposals. i especially welcome the recognition of a child's right to be involved in decisions that concern them directly and for them to be properly represented in legal or administrative hearings. the report is strong on the need for a healthy environment and the right to play. it also recognises that those children with the legal right to work should be paid on a basis of equal pay for equal work: too many young people are used to provide a cheap alternative to other workers when they work as well and as hard in many sectors. i voted to remove the paragraph referring to encouraging states to outlaw the wearing of the hijab for young girls. i believe this to be a misplaced proposal of the women's committee, assuming the hijab to be an automatic sign of female subjugation, which it is not. personally, i am offended by seeing pre-pubescent girls wearing clothes with sexual invitations written on them but i would not seek to ban this via a parliamentary report. i am pleased the report passed without that paragraph.
in writing. − i strongly support the idea of a comprehensive and coherent european strategy on the rights of the child. the fight against all forms of violence, poverty and discrimination suffered by children is something that should not simply be treated on a national level. the protection of a child’s right to education, health and adoption are all rights that europe as a whole should continue to recognise and protect.
in writing. − while the treaty of lisbon sets the promotion of children’s rights as a broad eu objective, it does not create new legislative powers for this purpose. i believe that any movement in this field should be within the existing legal framework. there are significant areas in this report which step outside these boundaries. nor is the report offering feasible solutions to children’s problems. one example is institutionalised care. we have voted to restrict this to a temporary measure. yet hundreds of thousands of children throughout europe are born with or acquire such significant physical or intellectual handicaps that it is a medical or social necessity for them to have long-term institutional care. a quadriplegic, spina bifida or hydrocephalus afflicted child can have a life of dignity and happiness with expert staff care and family visits. strengthening the system is the priority, and not its abolition. we in europe are bound to follow the united nations convention on the rights of the child. this report distorts several important messages contained in the convention. with regret, therefore, i found myself unable to support this report, though i share the concern for children’s welfare that its supporters expressed.
in writing. − i am in favour of the eu promoting the rights of the child. one recent example i would again draw to the commission’s attention is discrimination against children’s right to travel with airlines withdrawing facilities for unaccompanied minors to fly. if they did the same for the disabled or any other similar group there would (properly) be an uproar, but apparently the eu thinks it is perfectly in order to remove children’s rights in this arbitrary way. at the same time there has been some controversy over paragraph 127 calling for ‘member states to ban headscarves and the hijab, at least at primary school’. i voted against the paragraph because of both the ambiguous wording and the fact that i believe this is too important an issue to be dealt with as a peripheral part of such a report. nevertheless i would be disappointed if such a practice was to become common in europe’s primary schools.
in writing. − i am the strongest defender of the need to give children a good upbringing in a strong, loving and secure family environment, to protect children from harm and abuse, to give them moral guidance and a first class education, and the best of opportunity in their lives. i believe that the role of the state in this is a limited one – it should not seek to abrogate the rights and duties of parents, of the churches and of schools. i certainly, therefore, see no reason for the eu to get involved. i regret the deletion of the call for a ban on headscarves and the hijab at least at primary school – what hope is there of proper integration into our mainstream western societies if such dress is allowed? i regret also the inclusion of language relating to adolescent sexual ‘rights’ – a further erosion of the very concept of childhood. for these and many other reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. − i feel that the report's goal of ensuring member states reach a 12.5% target for participation in adult learning by 2010 will improve not only the eu's competitiveness, but will also allow for greater social inclusion and intercultural awareness: exactly what is needed for the year of intercultural dialogue. the greater use of technology and proposals to increase childcare facilities will improve opportunities for everyone to truly benefit from education. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
that concludes the vote. i would like to thank the services, particularly the interpreters, for bearing with us over lunchtime. (the sitting was suspended at 13.30 and resumed at 15.00)
mr president, clearly we need to identify the fact that kenya is a country where most people are actually subsisting on a couple of dollars a day. there is massive discontent and deprivation; a whole army of discontented people, as we have seen, has been engendered by the situation there, because what they realise is that the gap between the haves and the have-nots in kenya has widened – and that in the context of that 6% growth in gdp which others have mentioned. kenya is a low-income, low-resource economy. it is also a country which, tragically, is mired in patronage and in corruption. and what we see is that, as we speak here today, people are storing up food, and people are out on the streets again in nairobi and in other parts of kenya. therefore i would add my voice to those that have said that the eu must suspend budget support to kenya until a political resolution to the present crisis has been found. of course, it is unacceptable that that eur 40.6 million was sent the day after the election criticisms were made. i am very encouraged that commissioner michel intimated in our committee on monday that budget support would be reviewed immediately. i would like to hear some more detail of that. instead of channelling money through line ministries in kenya, we must look at ways of doing it through project support, which also ensures that the poor of kenya are not damaged by such an action. in my view we need to be much clearer about the need to place aid conditionality on good governance, as is clearly stated under the cotonou partnership agreements, and we have not done that. we have, i am afraid, turned a blind eye to many of the serious accusations about corruption in that country. finally, the perpetrators of those irregular election results that the observers have reported to us must be held to account and must not be allowed to get away with it. i also say that the european union must play its part in monitoring the mediation process. we have been at the vanguard of asking for these considerations to be made, and i would like the council and the european union to be stronger and more consistent in its approach, and make sure that kofi annan is given all the support he needs from europe, and that a new election commission can be put in place as soon as possible.
mr president, i agree with mr borrell fontelles that, if any good has come out of the post-election situation in kenya, it is that it has revealed that the so-called kenyan success story is built on a foundation of straw. while it is true that the thirst among ordinary kenyans for democracy is strong and that kenya has been going through a great economic boom, it is equally clear that for years a government overseeing that economic boom has failed to ensure that the whole of its population has benefited economically and socially. we now know that there is deep-rooted social and economic disarray in the country and that for years the government has operated on a basis of corruption and economic mismanagement. the concept, as mrs kinnock rightly says, of good governance and respect for democracy are prerequisites for european union aid. but, contrary to what other speakers have said, that does not mean that we should abandon the country. it means we should rechannel our aid through agencies and organisations that can get money to the poor, the neediest and the weakest in kenya. clearly, if the election results are not properly monitored and respected, we cannot continue to channel money through the kenyan government. we have to send a clear message: good governance is a prerequisite for assistance from the european union.
i contribute to this debate with a degree of sadness. five years ago in december 2002 i was part of the european parliament’s election observation mission to kenya led by baroness nicholson. that election was conducted within international guidelines that gave the result an integrity that validated a result that gave a victory to the opposition. having had the opportunity to meet with mwai kibaki, the incoming president, we all felt, alongside the conviction of the fairness of his election, that kenya’s future looked brighter with a new era of more efficiency and less corruption beckoning. now like at the end of george orwell’s ‘animal farm’ the pigs have become men and the men pigs. the regime that offered so much promise has become as corrupt and inept as its predecessor, in the process destroying the hopes and future of millions of kenyans. i welcome the robust statements of the eu’s chief election observer. i hope the commission will encourage reconciliation amongst the disputing factions and threaten strong measures if there is any failure to agree.
in writing. – as a former european parliament election observer for kenya, i am deeply concerned by the turn of events following the election in december. the fact that kenya has for years been seen as the most stable country in that part of the african continent makes developments doubly worrying. kenya, like my country, is a member of the commonwealth. i support the proposal put forward by the commonwealth observation team that independent commonwealth judges be put in place to review the election results. our own eu election observation team suggested that an independent audit of the results take place. i am convinced that the kenyan people would have confidence in such an audit being carried out by commonwealth judges. our immediate priority is to see kenya return to a state of normality, by which i mean a peaceful society in which the democratic process is not in doubt. the news today that the security forces prevented opposition politicians from staging a protest rally does not bode well. i urge the eu to do all in its power to work with other international organisations to ensure that kenya can recover both its normality and its democracy.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the rapporteur was, i understand, the director-general of spain’s police between 2002 and 2004. this means, i assume, that one of his last tasks before leaving office was to deal with the immediate aftermath of the terrible bombings in madrid. i, therefore, accept the sincerity with which he now puts the case for extending the powers of europol in order to deal with new terrorist threats. however, i will not need to remind him that my country, too, has had a long history of facing up to terrorism and, like his country, that consisted for many years of a threat from separatists, which, in recent years, has been matched by the new threat of islamic extremism. what i am saying is that my country is very grateful for help and cooperation from its neighbours where necessary, but, in the final analysis, it must be able to act exactly according to its own methods and procedures and on its own initiative. but what is being proposed here is not just a further encroachment of europol into areas that should be left under the control of member states. worse still than that, the commission wants to change the legal framework governing europol so that any extension of europol’s powers does not have to be ratified by member states. the rapporteur concludes his statement by saying that we must ensure europol enjoys maximum democratic legitimacy. once again, we see that the eu, as it seeks to take powers from member states, even in matters of policing, has a very strange idea of democratic legitimacy.
madam president, whatever the desirability of combating terrorism and organised crime – and it is desirable – it is clear to me that this expansion of the role for europol and the change in its legal basis and title are about something quite different. they are, in fact, about giving the apparatus of statehood to the eu. states naturally and properly have police forces. now the eu is to have its own right to have european police officers, funded from the eu budget and staffed by eu officials. in truth and in fact, they will be eu policemen doing the bidding of the eu and roaming across europe, meddling in the work of national police forces, particularly since their competence to initiate and lead inquiries is to be extended beyond organised crime into ever increasing areas of criminal law. then, to crown what for me is that absurdity, these eu policemen are to have immunity from national constraints and their actions put beyond the reach of judicial review. that causes me to reject these proposals. they are but the latest manifestation of super statehood for the eu – all under the framework of the constitution and none of it with the consent of the peoples of europe because of the conspiracy amongst eu leaders to subvert democracy and refuse referendums.
madam president, what we have heard in this debate is the usual confusion between cooperation and integration. i very much support those who have expressed concern at the eu efforts to expand europol’s powers and competence. of course we need good cooperation between police and security services. i happen to believe that we have always had that good cooperation at the operational level, but it can always be improved. indeed, in my experience at europol – and i am probably one of the few members of this house who has been to europol on a number of occasions – most of its activity is bilateral, which gives the lie to this idea that it has some other great role. the need for cooperation is very different to the involvement of the european union institutions, which is merely part of the eu’s wider agenda of political integration.
madam president, i wanted to add my voice to that of my colleague, geoffrey van orden, and my previous colleague from the czech republic, from the ods. i disagree with mr stubb. i am also nervous – and i do not think it would be supported by many of my constituents in the united kingdom – about the idea of turning europol into a kind of supranational fledging european union fbi-style organisation. like all colleagues, i am, of course, in favour of intergovernmental cooperation in police, intelligence and security matters, particularly when we face growing problems from international organised crime, international terrorism etc. europol already has quite an extensive remit in areas like people trafficking as well, but we do not need to extend the powers of europol. it should be an agency charged with acting as a gatekeeper in terms of exchange of information and also building up more confidence between our national police forces and our security and intelligence services. there is a lot of mistrust between some of the member states’ traditional law enforcement agencies. europol should be acting as a kind of coordinator and not be given special rights. i would particularly object to any idea of eu policemen being able to go into our own member states with powers of arrest.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i join the council and the commission in the condemnation of the murder of benazir bhutto. this parliament has always condemned terrorism wherever it occurs and we will continue to fight for the right of politicians to express their views and to campaign in safety. in going back to pakistan, benazir bhutto knew the risks and, whether you consider her to be brave or foolhardy, you have to respect her commitment to her party and her country. in her memory and the memory of others who have died in this election period, i believe it is beholden on all of us – europeans and pakistanis from president musharraf downwards – to do everything we can to assist pakistan. as mr lenarčič said, the key to this must be the continuing battle against terrorism. we have seen that terrorism is a threat in pakistan as much as it is in europe or the usa. commissioner ferrero-waldner has reminded us that hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed in shootings and suicide bombs in pakistan, so europe must continue to fully assist and support the counter-terrorism operations in pakistan. some colleagues here might suggest we should leave pakistan be and have little to do with it, but i firmly believe the contrary. as 27 strong democratic nations, we need to work collectively to support the economic, social and political developments in pakistan. again, i agree with the council: the release of all remaining political detainees will be crucial to this process, as will ensuring free, fair, transparent and safe elections on 18 february 2008 and a safe and satisfactory run-up to that date. in addition to what the commissioner said, i think the election will mean that we need to have 90 million voters with proper access to news coverage of all sides of the debate. it means making a safer environment for the media. pakistan has become the most dangerous asian country for the media: at least six journalists were killed in 2007, some 30 seriously injured, over 100 arrested and countless harassed. we need an end to the censorship of the print and broadcast media and to restrictions on what they can say and do without interference from the military or civilian authorities. the ban on the tv news station geo news needs to be lifted and the government television channel ptv needs to be more balanced in its news and the information it conveys to the public. all arrangements for the actual voting, the counting and the reporting of the results need to be above board and clear to everyone, but most especially to the voters of pakistan. a mark of democracy is also whether incumbents can accept defeat and whether political transition from one party of government to another, if it occurs, can go smoothly. all of these will be crucial factors in whether or not the elections can be counted as a true record of the will of the people and whether or not pakistan can start to emerge from the long shadow cast by that assassin’s bullet on 27 december 2007.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would very much like to join my voice to that of my colleagues in thanking both the council and, indeed, the commission in particular, for the practical steps that have been outlined in terms of helping to support the electoral administration process and to try and improve the quality and hopefully the outcome as well, of those elections should they take place. we also welcome the commitment to further financing for development, not least in education, because there are many of us in this house who believe that investment there will prove at least as powerful, if not more powerful than investment in weapons, which seems to have been a priority for some external bodies in their support for pakistan over the last few years. we hope that the international community in general will support the efforts of the european union in these lines. like others here, we also want to express our sympathy for the family of benazir bhutto, but also for the families of all the bereaved in pakistan killed in outrageous attacks and indeed through military action. we would agree that we do need stability, both for the people of pakistan and indeed, given that it is a nuclear state, for the international community as well. but, as others have said, i do not think it is enough to try and develop people’s confidence in the electoral system and its outcome. the judiciary is another key democratic institution. it needs to be functioning and to be independent. people need to feel that they will have a fair trial, that they will see an end to detention without charge, an end to secret prisons and, indeed, a commitment from whatever government comes into being after the elections, to continue the inquiries into the disappearances that have also taken place in that country. we also agree that freedom of the press is vital, but we would also ask that some of our member states cease contemplating extraditions to pakistan at the moment until we can be sure that there is a fair and independent functioning judiciary.
madam president, the economist stated recently that pakistan is the world’s most dangerous nuclear arms state. regrettably, in my view, president musharraf’s commitment to fully eradicating islamist terror has always been lukewarm at best, and his control over the isi or intelligence services, who allegedly are in bed with islamists, is tenuous as well. add to that the combustible issues of kashmir, baluchi separatism, al qa’ida and taliban activity in the north-west frontier territories and tribal areas causing mischief for nato in afghanistan, and you have a country on the point of implosion. just as benazir bhutto’s return to pakistan offered the country a glimmer of hope, so her despicable assassination, whose culprits must be identified and punished, has taken the country back to the brink of catastrophe. a return to democracy is as difficult as ever. the assumption in the eu and the usa is that musharraf, for all his autocratic tendencies, represents the safer bet in the war on terrorism. pakistan’s experience of democracy in the past 60 years has been troubled. perhaps it is time now to abandon the hope that western-style multiparty democracy can embed itself successfully in pakistan, which has always been dominated by a tiny élite. it is more akin to a feudal hereditary monarchy, a fact underlined by the instant elevation of benazir bhutto’s 19-year-old son to the leadership of the pakistani people’s party, who will no doubt do very well at the imminent 18 february elections. the apparent choice for the west between pakistan and india is also a false dichotomy. it is a hangover from the cold war. india, as a strategic ally, is the best hope for progress, prosperity, peace and stability in south asia. india’s values are the eu’s values – secular democracy, human rights and the rule of law. let us start supporting those who share our values before we try to persuade those who do not.
mr president, firstly, i should like to give condolences to the family and friends of benazir bhutto. her loss is not just pakistan’s but is a loss to the whole world. i am very proud to have known her personally. she invited me to join her on her return to pakistan, and it was very much a heart-wrenching moment for me when i received her new year’s greetings days after she had been murdered. i remember benazir as a very strong charismatic woman, asserting her right to rule as the first elected female leader, at the age of 35, of a muslim state. i believe she will be remembered as one of the great figures of our century – a leader who inspired both women and men beyond south asia and represented, above all, hope for a better future for pakistan. benazir’s death has caused upheaval in her country, and i believe the only route to stability will be if questions that are being asked about her assassination are answered. many people, not just in pakistan but also those i represent in the west midlands, want to know who the real culprits are. therefore, i ask the council to strongly support the calls for international investigation by the united nations into the murder and i ask the council and the commission to inform this house what their position is on this. benazir bhutto fought for a democratic pakistan and a peaceful transition to civilian rule. her fight cost her her life. let her death not be in vain. we need to continue this cause, and i welcome the fact that the commissioner is sending a strong electoral observation mission. however, if this observation mission is to have credibility, it needs to indicate now to the pakistani authorities the benchmarks the election observation mission will be using to judge whether the forthcoming elections are free and fair, and this includes an all-party participation in the review of the electoral rules and procedures and an impartial system of conducting elections and verifying election results that is totally transparent. but, above all, i would really like to emphasise the need for all press restrictions to be lifted and freedom to assemble for political rallies and campaigns, which, in the last few weeks, have been opposed.
mr president, the target of the assassins was not simply benazir bhutto, but all of those who are committed to the principle of democracy. we should be backing the moderate majority in pakistan who seek to uphold democracy, and mr tannock is wrong to say that all in pakistan reject european values, as 800 000 british people of pakistani origin could tell him. i welcome commissioner ferrero-waldner’s strengthening of the eu electoral observation mission and recognise our important role in building confidence in the electoral process. through her and through today’s debate, i call on pakistan to lift all restrictions on political campaigning, to release remaining political detainees, to publish in advance the location of all polling stations and to ensure that all results are posted immediately in public. we should welcome the lifting of the state of emergency, president musharraf’s retirement as army chief of staff and the invitation to my own country, the united kingdom, to assist in the investigation of mrs bhutto’s death. militant extremists are not simply a threat in pakistan: they are a threat to us all.
mr president, on 14 november in this house, i stated that the biggest threat facing pakistan internally is the terrorist threat. the abhorrent assassination of benazir bhutto is proof of this, if it was required. extremists hit that day but they must not be allowed to win the day. we called for president musharraf on that day to end the state of emergency, to reinstate the constitution, to reinstate the supreme court and move towards free and fair elections. he has done all of this, albeit not necessarily perfectly, and he has relinquished his army role as well. we must call upon pakistan’s politicians to unite and invest in that process. pakistan is facing turbulent times and we must stand with it. just one further point. i have real concerns regarding the way in which what actually happens in this house is being distorted by some sections of pakistan’s media in their reporting, particularly the news channel geo. this house has always argued for a free and fair media. we stand by that and i ask them: please do not abuse the freedoms we hold dear.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to reply to mr howitt under the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure, because he was incorrect in what he stated. i was referring to the indian state and the pakistani state and the governments of both countries – not the peoples of the countries or the people of descent of those countries who live within the member states of the european union. i was referring to the polities, not the people, so i would like mr howitt to withdraw his comments.
that is very kind but i think i have already said it all. i was just simply stating that in my speech, i was referring to the fact that india is a secular democracy which respects human rights, does not shut down the media, does not actually persecute christians or ahmadi muslims, and allows the people to express their views and practice their religion. regrettably, pakistan, over the last 50 or so years, has had troubled periods of military dictatorship and repression of religious minorities and ethnic minorities. that is to do with the state and the governments, not the peoples of either country. similarly, i do not in any way doubt that people of pakistani and indian descent in london, which i represent, would share eu values.
mr president, on a point of order, i was probably the first person to apply this afternoon under the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure. i do not know why you denied me the opportunity to speak. indeed, you gave an extra opportunity to one of my colleagues who had already spoken in the debate. you then gave him more time! i had no disagreement with what he said. it was just the procedure that you followed, and i think it was quite wrong that you denied me the opportunity to speak. i wanted to make the point that we need a stable and reliable government in pakistan.
mr president, what you have just said is incorrect. the previous ‘catch-your-eye’ opportunity was because there was no one else that wanted to catch the eye, so it seemed to be an opportunity. i had specifically asked to speak in this pakistan debate. i put it in writing and i indicated throughout the debate that i wanted to speak. there was no excuse, therefore, for denying me that opportunity, and i had important comments that i wanted to make. i am afraid that i am very disappointed in the way that you have conducted this particular meeting.
the chairman of the council. - just to express my gratitude to poland and of course to the other countries contributing forces to this important operation.
the chairman of the council. - the case to which mr mitchell's question refers is that of a british national who was in a third country and was subject to the jurisdiction of the national law of that third country. the national concerned was granted consular protection by the state of her nationality. as is known, the british national was released in the meantime and has already returned to the united kingdom. it follows that such cases are therefore predominantly resolved in bilateral relations between the member state concerned and the third country. of course, there may be cases where additional political action is deemed appropriate and where eu representatives are asked to be involved in the resolution of such a bilateral issue and such engagement. of course, in individual cases it can also lead to official statements and initiatives by the european union. but, as i said, in principle, as in this particular case, it is a question which is normally resolved, and in this particular case, it is resolved at the level of relations between the third country and the country of nationality, a member state of the european union.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for the additional question, mr. mitchell. this is a matter of consular protection of citizens. this protection remains the domain of the member states and it is therefore for the member states to warn their citizens before travelling to third countries of the dangers and pitfalls to be aware of when travelling. on the other hand, the principle of solidarity already provides for the assistance of member states which have diplomatic or consular representations in a given third country to provide consular protection to nationals of other member states of the european union who do not have their own consular representations there. i think that's one of the important things we've achieved in our union. but i have said before that it is certainly very likely, quite likely, possible, in case of need, to involve the union in resolving cases such as this one. in this case, that was not necessary, and fortunately, fortunately, the matter was resolved in two countries, and we are pleased about that.
the chairman of the council. - i repeat, this is still the responsibility of the member states with consular protection levers. but it is clear that the european union is a framework within which the countries - and i am referring again to the principle of solidarity - help each other, also in this area, in accordance with the principle of solidarity. the council, like the other institutions, would certainly not hesitate to do something if it were necessary to do something at their level. that is to say, it does not exclude the case, it does not exclude the fact that this protection is for once carried out within the member states, it does not exclude additional actions, complementary actions by individual institutions of the european union. the only thing that emerges from the case raised by mr mitchell is that it was resolved at the level of the two countries, but that does not mean that it would not have been resolved at a higher level, including at european level, if necessary.
the chairman of the council. − i am sure that ms doylova is aware of the european union's intention to contribute to the ambitious outcome of the 9th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity. the conference will take place in bonn, germany, in may 2008, during the slovenian presidency. the conservation of biodiversity is high on the list of priority areas of our presidency. the council has already stressed in the past the need for sustained and intensified efforts at all levels to achieve the objective of a significant slowdown in biodiversity loss by 2010, and at the same time to achieve the objective set by the eu at the gothenburg european council and mentioned by mr doyle in his question. in addition, member states shall put in place concrete measures to implement the action plan to reduce biodiversity loss by 2010 and beyond, which provides for action on biodiversity and climate change both at european union and global level. in achieving the objective of slowing the decline in biodiversity by 2010, the presidency will stress the need for synergies between policies and activities in the field of climate change and biodiversity, in particular with regard to biodiversity in freshwater and marine environments as well as forest biodiversity. these objectives are set out in a declaration entitled 'counting to 2010' together with the other biodiversity conservation objectives. joint meetings of the council working groups will be organised during the slovenian presidency. one will be between experts in forestry, climate change and biodiversity, and the other between experts in international maritime policy, fisheries and biodiversity. at the same time, the informal meeting of environment ministers in slovenia in april will present forest biodiversity as a challenge and an opportunity to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation measures at european level. the slovenian presidency will also seek to improve cooperation and implementation of relevant provisions from the various environmental agreements at national and regional levels. the european commission has added to its communication 'halting biodiversity loss by 2010 and beyond' a commitment to involve the private sector in biodiversity partnerships. in this context, a high-level conference on the economy and biodiversity was recently held in lisbon in november 2007. the outcome of this conference, including the lisbon communication on the economy and biodiversity, will be discussed at the 9th conference of the states parties to the convention, to be held in germany under the slovenian presidency, and at the 5th world congress of the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources, to be held in barcelona under the french presidency.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for that additional comment, mrs doyle. i certainly agree that we need to have the best possible indicators to assess the state of biodiversity and the presidency will take note of your remark that there is a need to reflect and will consider the need to improve these indicators. 2010 is really close, less than two years to go. you are right that in a field such as biodiversity, it is difficult to imagine that in such a short time, especially after a period that seems not to have been the best exploited, that in such a short time that remains, the objectives set could be achieved, namely the slowing down of the decline in biodiversity. but that doesn't mean it can't be done. we're going to do our best. slovenia is one of the countries for which biodiversity is of great importance, partly because we still have a fairly high level of biodiversity, which is known, if for no other reason, also because of our bears, which we export to a good part of europe. in short, you can count on the slovenian presidency to make every effort to achieve the objective, despite the fact that time is very short.
the chairman of the council. - this is one of the proofs that certain things may not have been the object of our attention in the past. it is clear that the production of biofuels, if left unchecked and unchecked, can certainly have negative consequences for the environment, for biodiversity, for food prices, if you will, and so on. i think that this aspect deserves special attention. in other words, we should encourage the production and use of biofuels that reduce, rather than increase, the environmental burden. i think this should be the cardinal guideline for the union's policy on promoting the use of biofuels.
the chairman of the council. - i apologise in advance to mr higgins and mrs mcguinness for the answer, which can only be very brief, since these matters can only be discussed by the council on the basis of a commission proposal. there was no such proposal, nor any proposal for any other changes to the regional cohesion indicators, so that, until such a proposal is made, of course, the council will not be able to discuss and take a position on any other regional cohesion indicators.
the chairman of the council. - i can try, thank you. perhaps, perhaps, but really only perhaps, that is mainly, i repeat, depending on the commission, there will be an opportunity to reflect on the indicators and the review of cohesion policy planned by the slovenian presidency during this time, but not necessarily. that is not up to the council, but to the commission. we will of course be interested to see how far the commission will take part in the debate on the revision of cohesion policy, which is one of the important tasks of our presidency.
the chairman of the council. - it is difficult to speak for the commission and i have no ambition to do so because i would not be able to do it. but it seems that so far, at least so far, the commission has not found a better indicator than gdp. i believe if i did, i would have suggested it. and i repeat my previous remark that the cohesion policy review will be one of the opportunities to look at this issue as well. more opportunities will come later, when there will also be talk of a comprehensive reform of the budget of the european union, which, as we know, will be based on a comprehensive analysis to be carried out by the european commission itself in 2008 and 2009.
the chairman of the council. - the council has not adopted any position on the specific case mentioned by the honourable member mcguinness. however, i am pleased to note that on 5 december 2007 the council adopted a resolution on the follow-up to the european year of equal opportunities for all. that was 2007, last year, which after this decision, or after this resolution, will not remain just a one-year event, but will continue. that resolution calls on the member states and the european commission to step up efforts to prevent discrimination on the grounds of disability and other grounds, to strengthen the fight against such discrimination, to further accelerate the integration of disability into all relevant policies and to continue the process of concluding, signing and ratifying the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. by this resolution, the council also invites the member states and the commission to cooperate on common challenges and to seek solutions in the context of the implementation of the said convention, the united nations convention. in this context, i would also like to point out that the council, like the european parliament, has recently received the commission's communication on the situation of disabled people in the european union, which contains a european action plan for 2008 and 2009. the slovak presidency believes that this document will provide valuable guidance for further efforts to promote the rights of disabled people, in particular disabled children, and the council is currently examining this commission proposal.
the chairman of the council. - i cannot and do not wish to go into the substance of this matter, on which you are certainly justified in expressing a very strong opinion. however, i would stress that the council's view is that it is important to respect, or to take account of, the division of competences between the union and the member states, and in this context i can also express myself as the council's representative, and not in terms of diplomacy, but in terms of respect for my competences, the council's competences and, of course, the movements within these frameworks.
president-in-office, can i join in expressing disappointment at the inadequacy of your reply? when bulgaria was being considered for accession, the treatment of people in institutions was made a live issue. but the mistake that was made was that, when in december 2006 we came to set the benchmarks – looking back upon how bulgaria had matched its undertakings – mysteriously, this item was omitted from the benchmarks. why was that? and can it now be reinstated? if not, what other steps can you realistically take so that the council and the community quite properly can look at the flagrant breaches which are afflicting this sector?
the speaker is absolutely right: i thought the answer from the council was not sufficient. before accession, we called on all member states who wanted to come into the european union to abide by european union rules. i know bulgaria has signed up to the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities, but it has not ratified it. can you put pressure on those countries that have not ratified that convention to do just that? i know the bulgarian authorities are trying to address this problem, but we need to keep up the pressure.
mr president, this debate has highlighted a number of the problems which the subject we are debating raises. it seems to me, commissioner, that rather than us devising a strategy and telling others what to do, it would perhaps be wise to ask representatives of the roma community. we currently have two roma meps. i remember, too, a very famous spanish socialist member of this house, elected in 1989, who was particularly engaging and informative on the whole question of roma culture. that culture is part of our culture and part of european civilisation, and reflects what kind of a people we are. it would perhaps be wise to look at the history of the roma people, to speak with representatives of the roma culture and to ask them how we can best further their prospects, rather than telling them how they can integrate into our society and how we can best accommodate their social needs.
in writing. – it is clear the roma is a neglected minority in the european union; we cannot allow this to continue. i fully support my colleagues in calling for the commission to take more action on this issue. we have a situation whereby there exists a group that is considered the largest ethnic minority group in the eu, living in less than substandard conditions, that we have difficulty in protecting and aiding. concrete and swift action from the commission to assist the integration of the roma community in all aspects of society, be it economic, social or political, is desperately needed. the eu needs to take the lead on this problem.
madam president, i cannot support a black sea policy. it will consume vast amounts of money. my country is the eu’s second biggest paymaster, and our government has just decided to reduce our eu rebate by a ukp 1 billion per annum. initially, one of the thrusts of this policy will be to facilitate the supply of gas and oil to the west. two years ago we saw russia cut the supply of gas to ukraine at christmas time. they were just flexing their muscles, and once russia has an even bigger share of western energy supplies, who is to say they will not do this again – to all of us? europe must become more self-sufficient in energy – not by useless wind power, nor by biofuels. when there is a world shortage of grain, it is madness to replace a fuel shortage with a food shortage. my government has, almost too late in the day, announced a programme to build a new generation of nuclear power stations, hopefully catching up with france – that is, 70% of electricity by nuclear. we should and must do more and use the access power to produce hydrogen and develop the technology to use that in place of oil. if the eu really wants to make a difference, it should fund the building of nuclear power stations across the continent, to reduce our dependence on unstable regimes and overlong delivery lines. then, and only then, would we have the money available to help the poorer regions around the black sea. pumping money in now will only further delay the promised funding of the 10 new eastern eu members – a promise yet to be kept. promises – in britain we were promised a referendum on the european constitution, lisbon treaty, call it what you will. in this chamber, i now demand that the eu hold a referendum on the treaty in all member states, including the uk. ask the people.
madam president, the author of the commission communication on a black sea synergy, janos herman, is to be congratulated on an outstanding piece of work. parliament’s rapporteur, ms anastase, has also produced an extremely important report. madam commissioner, you said at the outset of this debate that you agreed with much of ms anastase’s report. in your response winding-up this debate, could you refer specifically to paragraphs 29 and 36 of the report? paragraph 29 calls on you to promote an intercultural dialogue in the black sea region, and paragraph 36 to set up an ngo platform for civil society exchanges. could you give parliament your assurance that you will implement those two recommendations?
madam president, i put two questions to the commissioner and when she replies regarding the implementation of paragraph 29, on the promotion of intercultural dialogue, and paragraph 36, on the creation of an ngo platform for exchanges between civil society, perhaps she might bear in mind the precedent that we have in the balkans under an organisation called clio. it is independent of governments and involves history teachers from all the countries in the balkans, who meet together to discuss the common historical and cultural background of the past in order to produce books and documents on the history of their region that are devoid of national conflict. perhaps in the black sea region there might also be a lesson: for historians and researchers from all the countries around the black sea to meet together, independent of government pressure, to promote a common understanding of the black sea’s history, devoid of national conflict.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, i warmly welcome this report, which i fully support. the british conservatives support it, as does the ppe-de group. if europe is to play a leading part in a very competitive, a fiercely competitive, global world, we need all the resources available at the highest possible level. whilst i disagree that there should be quotas saying how many ladies there should be at various levels in companies – and i particularly disagree with any compulsion in that regard – what i do want to see is as many ladies as possible rise to the highest possible levels based on their ability. it often depends on what we define as ‘industry’, and industry is changing; everything is much more flexible nowadays, and i am delighted that ladies are playing their role in industry in their various positions. i do not agree that there needs to be any handicap or under-representation in the new technologies, because ladies have the brains, the intelligence and the know-how to more than make their worth felt. firstly, i would endorse the view that we should always go for equal pay wherever possible. regarding this report, i was extremely pleased that the rapporteur embraced the views of people from the various groups and that we reached unanimity. i wanted to see better facilities for pensions for ladies – for portability within pensions from one employer to another to make sure they get higher pensions as they get through their working lives, and more flexibility in terms of facilities so that ladies can balance their family lives with their working lives. as i say, i fully support this report. it is a step forward. we need ladies at all levels and i wish them well. i welcome in particular our new commissioner, who is very capable indeed.
madam president, i would like to join with ms trautmann – and i think i am speaking for all my other colleagues as well – in expressing my gratitude to the parliament presidency for having enabled us to go as an official delegation. this was a fact well noted by the many participants. we were the most active of all the political delegations there, and there were more european parliamentarians than any others. however, we are now seeing signs that other parliaments are looking at the internet governance forum and realising they need to engage with it, because it addresses crucial public policy matters on which they need to be involved. the speeches given by my colleagues have covered a number of the issues. i would just like to make some broad observations about how i see the process evolving, particularly because i am the only member of this parliament to have attended both the world summits on the information society, and have also been through the process from the very beginning. there is a feeling that the forum in rio is now starting to come up with much more practical ideas, and people are beginning to realise the value of exchanging information and best practice from around the globe. that is based on an understanding that it is not actually going to be formal, international, legal structures that are going to deliver many of the benefits we are looking for. in fact, we are going to have to deal with many of these matters through intergovernmental cooperation, and in many cases through cooperation between voluntary or non-governmental organisations. in the case, for example, of child protection, which the previous speaker referred to, the most successful initiatives have been those carried out by voluntary-based organisations – such as, in my country – the internet watch foundation. it was very important to actually talk to people about such organisations. i will close by giving you a clear example, at a broader level, of the value of such interchanges. i participated in a workshop on consumer protection data breach notification, which is about to be discussed in parliament as part of european legislation. i have a whole dossier on what has been done in other counties, and would say to the commission that their proposal is currently extremely weak and would benefit greatly from its looking at that information. this is the sort of practical benefit we can derive from such forums, and i am sure we in this parliament will be able to contribute to the development of the agenda for the next forum, to make it even more effective.
i'm all right. thank you very much.
mr president, i have agreed to that change to the oral amendment.
mr president, as we agreed at the beginning of the session, it will be an addition now. in the actual text it says to replace the words ‘in the baku-tbilisi-erzurum gas pipeline’ with the words ‘in the trans-caspian energy corridor projects’. but by negotiation at the beginning of the voting session, i have already agreed this should be an addition rather than a replacement, so can we include the words ‘in the trans-caspian energy corridor projects’.
mr president, i have to say that on this particular measure, i voted against. while mr cashman is a very charming gentleman, i must say that whenever i see anything with his name on it, i do look on it with some degree of scepticism. the issue here is that we have a european fundamental rights agency as if there were no such protection for human rights in the member states. i question whether there is any need for this institution at european level. is it not just a case of extending bureaucracy and creating new quangos, as we call them in britain? this is a burden on the taxpayer which, in the view of many others, will not actually contribute to human rights. furthermore, in the absence of the constitution which we were promised, which you are now proposing to drive through without a referendum, there is no basis for it.
mr president, i voted against this report because the united kingdom already respects human rights. it is a signatory to many international agreements; it does not need to be told how to behave by an eu that has overridden the results of the french and the dutch referendums, which were perfectly constitutional. they rejected the constitution. it has been replaced by an equivalent treaty that has now been approved even before it has been seen in full by those who signed it. the eu clearly has no respect for democratic rights and cannot therefore be considered a safe or reliable custodian of human rights.
mr president, thank you for this opportunity to explain my vote. this is the first time i have done such a thing. i voted against this proposal because, whilst the committee in question may be called the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, it does not offer liberties to civilians, it does not offer justice, and it interferes in home affairs. we in britain were promised a referendum. we are not going to get one. what is the european union going to do about that?
mr president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain my vote on this important issue. you may not be aware of this, but i represent the constituency of london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world. what one needs to understand is that london is actually a pretty diverse city. let me explain: we already have 300 languages and 14 religions and, on the whole, we get along very well. so, the eu could actually learn a lot from london and how it has ensured human rights and that people’s dignity is respected. we do not need those issues to be resolved at eu level. what could london, the most diverse city in europe – and perhaps even in the world – learn from this institution? what could it learn about human rights? what could it learn about fundamental rights? absolutely nothing! let me add the following. the forthcoming ratification of the european constitution, despite its rejection in two referendums, is undemocratic, cowardly… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on what legal basis are we constructing this agency? the fundamental rights agency would have been given authority by the european constitution. it would be given authority by the lisbon treaty. but the only legal base it has at the moment is a flimsy cat’s cradle of communiqués, of press releases, of resolutions in council. the european union does not have a problem with the systematic violation of human rights. it does have a problem with the systematic violation of democratic rights. the problem we have is that a human rights charter written down on paper is meaningless unless there are also mechanisms to hold leaders to account. if you look at the constitutions of the former east germany and of the soviet union, they were full of these wonderful promises of liberty. but, as the peoples of those unhappy countries found, it meant nothing without democracy. that is why, if you want to impose this human rights charter, you should consult the people first in a referendum. pactio olisipio censenda est!
mr president, i too voted against this ludicrous proposal of an agency in respect of human rights in the eu. we in the united kingdom, like many other countries, are long-term signatories of the european convention on human rights. such rights as require external supervision are found there, and any court which is required is found in this city under that aegis, not under any aegis required by the eu. so this is totally unnecessary, an utter waste of public money. its primary intent is to provide another layer of apparatus of statehood to the eu so that it can parade itself as some sort of a superstate within a europe that gives rights to its citizens, rights they already have. if it wants to give rights, then let it recognise the fundamental right to vote on matters such as this: to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to a constitution.
mr president, i was interested to note that you cut off the microphone of my colleague, mr kamall, on the instant of 60 seconds, whereas you are much more generous when people are saying things you find more palatable. one of the errors we make in the european union is to confuse ‘cooperation’ with ‘supranationalism’. i am all in favour of police cooperation – any sensible person would be in this day and age. however, i am absolutely opposed to the creation of supranational authorities – such as europol is intended to be – which, as one of my colleagues said of the fundamental rights agency, is one of the attributes of statehood that the european union is claiming. the trouble is that these organisations lack democratic legitimacy, and that is very dangerous. both europol and the european union will lack democratic legitimacy until you put the lisbon treaty to a referendum.
mr president, i could not disagree more with this report. i voted against. cooperation between police forces, yes; forced cooperation and obligation, no; especially when this police force will have within its ranks armed police that can be sent anywhere in the european union. we do not have armed police as a rule in the united kingdom. we will not suffer armed police coming in at the behest of europol. we do not believe in it. we run our country in a different way! i am particularly disappointed to see that amendments 56 and 57 were voted down, because, if passed, they would have removed immunity from that police force. in the united kingdom, we are used to a police force which, if it causes damage to property or violates the individual or arrests without good reason, can be charged with offences afterwards. but then, i would not be surprised, because, after all, you are prepared to ram through a constitution without asking anybody either.
mr president, for the second time i rise to declare my vote opposing this motion. in britain, there is a simple philosophy: no man is above the law; not even the queen, the monarch of england, is above the law. it will take due process. we have in this legislation created a situation where there are people outside the law, incapable of being pursued legitimately. i have said in this house before: if the european union is the answer, it must have been a bloody stupid question, and never was this so true as now. i give you kennedy’s comments: ‘those who make peaceful protest impossible, make violent protest inevitable’.
mr president, it is vital to cooperate across transnational boundaries on international crime, terrorism, drugs and so on. europol is doing that job right now with other police forces. however, creating a european police office which increases central powers will not solve the problems that have arisen in local communities around britain. my country, my party, has voted against this resolution today as loyal conservatives. my party has also requested that we have a referendum on the eu constitutional treaty. i have no place other than this house to protest at what mr brown is doing in reneging on a pledge he gave to hold such a referendum. i would therefore ask that we request mr brown to give the british people that referendum.
mr president, i understand that this proposal for a council decision, as outlined in the report, provides for the conversion of europol into an eu agency. we must recognise that this will have two consequences. first of all, funding will have to be provided from the community budget, and europol staff will acquire the status of community officials. the report also contains provisions for coordination, which we all welcome, and organisation and implementation of investigations and operational activities carried out in conjunction with the member states’ relevant authorities or by joint investigation teams. the conservatives favour open cooperation between police forces across the eu and beyond in the fight against crime. but we really do not accept that the eu has any role in centralising such cooperation. thus, europol is an agency which is not necessary since other organisations already exist to fulfil this function at a global level. it is for this reason that i would like to add that the coming ratification of the european constitution, despite its rejection in two referendums, is undemocratic, cowardly and illegitimate.
mr president, i am glad to have this opportunity to make an explanation of vote. i put in for speaking time in the debate on this issue, but one of the consequences of my party’s unhappy mésalliance with the european people’s party is that british conservatives are systematically denied speaking time in important debates. what i wanted to say was that this report is based on a conceptual misunderstanding. people say that, because we have cross-border crimes, and because crime is international, we need cross-border policing. we already have it. the police forces of the nation states have for decades been collaborating to great effect. we have interpol, we have the hague convention, we have extradition treaties, we recognise the time spent in another country’s prison as constituting part of a sentence, and so on. the difference is that these things are based on democratic decisions between independent states, whereas what is being proposed with europol is the federalisation of what ought to be a sensitive national issue – namely the policing of criminal law. if we want to do that, we should first ask people in a referendum, which is why we need a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
mr president, some of the reasons propagated for this proposal on europol are quite bogus. it is suggested that we need to change the legal base; that we need to provide it with eu funding; that we need those it employs to be eu officials; that we need to expand its remit; and that we need an agency so that we can fight organised crime and terrorism. what utter nonsense! we have been fighting organised crime and terrorism quite effectively, through proper long-standing cooperation between police forces. this is all about creating another aspect of the apparatus of eu statehood, so that it has an effective eu police force. that is what those officials will be, meddling in the internal affairs of member states and – as has been pointed out – with immunity for their actions, beyond the reach even of judicial review in nation states. it is a preposterous proposal and utterly unnecessary.
mr president, regarding the polfer report, the conservatives did vote with the rapporteur on the issue of the south caucasus. but it is again rather curious, is it not, that, while we are so anxious to protect the democratic freedoms and the rights of the people of the south caucasus, and to ensure that they have a legitimacy and that they can express their self-determination, when it comes to the serious issue of the constitutional treaty of the european union, mr brown of the labour party, who promised to give us a referendum, has now reneged on a referendum. my party, the conservative party, is incensed that a promise has been reneged on and that is why i am standing here asking the labour government to give us a referendum on this important constitutional issue, just as we are concerned about what is happening in the south caucasus.
mr president, i understand that this report welcomes the inclusion of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia into the european neighbourhood policy and the endorsement of bilateral european neighbourhood policy action plans. i also understand that the rapporteur calls on the eu to develop a regional policy for the south caucasus to be implemented jointly with the countries of the region. of course, one of the watchwords that will appear in many of these reports is the word ‘democracy’. i represent london – you may not be aware of this. i represent london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world, and we happen to have a very diverse community in london, including many people from armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. one of the things that they welcome about living in london is democracy and the right to have their say on vital issues. they ask me all the time, ‘why is it that you are preaching to us about democracy, yet you deny that very right to your citizens in britain when it comes to a referendum on the constitution?’. so the constitution, despite its rejection in two referendums, is undemocratic, cowardly and illegitimate.
mr president, may i thank you for the patience and good humour you are exhibiting in this session. may i also, as yesterday, extend my thanks to the services and the interpreters for humouring us. the big issue in the south caucasus region at the moment is the dispute over election results. the west more or less connived at the saddam-like election victory of the current georgian government the first time around with its vote of well over 90%, and now, when it claims re-election, we are arguing about whether that vote was free and fair. what kind of example do we in the european union hold up to these struggling democracies when we show such contempt for our own democratic process here in the european union? it seems periodically necessary to remind this house that 55% of french voters and 62% of dutch voters voted ‘no’ to the european constitution, and yet we have the document coming back – this time without any referendums – as the lisbon treaty. i say it again: it is necessary to give the people a referendum on the lisbon treaty. pactio olisipio censenda est!
mr president, i voted in favour of this measure not because it was my considered wish to do so, but because, as a loyal conservative, i was following the whip. left to myself i would probably have abstained or perhaps voted against. i have to say that issues concerning the black sea are not the top priority for my electors in the east midlands of the united kingdom, and i suspect not the second or third priority either. therefore, you could in a sense say that this was not a matter of the very greatest importance. however, i do not believe that the european union should have a common foreign and security policy. i believe that nation states should have their own foreign policies, and am perfectly happy for them to work together in cooperation when that is in their interests – be this with states in the european union or with states outside it. in any case, the common foreign and security policy can have no democratic legitimacy if there is to be no referendum on the lisbon treaty.
mr president, without doubt this new policy is aimed at facilitating, amongst other things, the supply of oil and gas through that region to western europe. that would be russian gas and russian oil, and you are now allowing yourselves to be possibly taken hostage. we all know that russia cut off the supply of gas to ukraine two christmases ago; once they get an even bigger share of western europe gas supplies, perhaps they might do it to all of us at some time. at least here in france they have got the right idea, generating at least 70% of their electricity by nuclear power, and it is about time the eu formulated a policy to promote that right across the union. but instead, of course, you go dabbling in the south caucasus, around the black sea, with regimes that are not terribly stable; with regimes that may not want us there. but of course, you would rather do that than promote a referendum on the new constitution amongst your own people.
mr president, i am pleased to say that i am still here, even if you and others may not share my pleasure at being here. i would like to thank you all for your patience. i understand that this own-initiative report actually welcomes the commission’s communication ‘black sea synergy – a new regional cooperation initiative’, which aims to enhance cooperation with and within the black sea region by supplementing existing bilateral policies with a new regional approach. it considers that, in order to adopt such an approach, the communication has to be followed by further consistent steps on the part of the eu to encourage a genuine regional dimension tailored to this era. what region are we talking about? let me just clarify – the black sea region comprises the eu member states bulgaria, greece and romania, as well as turkey and enp partners armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine, as well as the russian federation. the great philosopher brook benton – followed and copied by the great philosopher randy crawford – once said, ‘it’s a rainy night in georgia’. indeed, when the people of europe are denied their vote and the people of britain are denied their vote in a referendum on the constitution, it is a rainy night in the eu for democracy.
mr president, i appreciate your courtesy. i am glad to be able to speak on this report because it seems to me that the european union, in its treatment of turkey, is making a generational, a possibly epical mistake. it now seems very clear that we are never going to admit turkey to full membership. it is clear from the majorities in this house; it is clear from the promises of referendums in austria and france, where there are majorities of 70% and 80% respectively against membership. had we said initially to ankara that this was the case and we were going to work out some kind of alternative, we might have been able to go ahead in amity and partnership. instead we are stringing the turks along, imposing tens of thousands of pages of the acquis communautaire on them, making them grovel about armenia, about cyprus, about the treatment of their minorities and then, possibly 10 or even 15 years from now, after all of this, we will flick two fingers at them. in so doing, we risk creating the very thing we purport to fear: an islamist state. turkey is more of a democracy than the european union. it changed its government peaceably. i wish we would have the courage to consult our own people. pactio olisipio censenda est!
in writing. − i support this report, despite my opposition and disappointment that the former european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, set up following the recommendations of the council of ministers’ consultative committee on racism and xenophobia, where i represented the european parliament, has now been dissolved into a wider european union agency for fundamental rights. the monitoring centre in vienna did extremely valuable work on promoting best practice in combating racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism and preventing their rise, as well as reporting on the current state of play across the union and in applicant countries. the danger is that this will be lost, or at least diluted, in this new agency. i will watch developments with care.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, liberals and democrats welcome this package. we believe it to be the most important act of mr barroso’s commission thus far. climate change is the greatest challenge facing life on our planet, the biggest problem facing our governments, and a gnawing worry for our citizens. i am grateful to mr davies and ms ek for the work they have done within my group to make sure we have a firm and early response. it is important for the commission to take action. national democracies are too often run by crisis management. problems are not tackled until they have to be tackled, and sometimes action comes too late. california’s scientists warned us 30 years ago about climate change. we can no longer prevent it, but we can hope and strive to control it. your proposals, president barroso, recognise the overwhelming urgency of action. they will be hotly contested. some will argue that they will hit profits; others will argue that they will hit jobs, and we have heard hints of both. no doubt you have had heated discussions in the commission. my group argues they can add to profits and to jobs and give our economy a new competitive edge. they are, in any case, essential to responsible stewardship of our planet and we will work with you to secure agreement on them as early as possible.
madam president, nowadays, when the subject of climate change crops up, it is usually described as ‘global warming’. is this deliberate? the only solution being put forward is to cut greenhouse gas emissions – that is, carbon dioxide – dramatically, because it is claimed that a 30% reduction will reduce the average temperature of the earth by 2° by 2020. such an assertion is quite amazing when no reference to the effect the sun will have had over that period is taken into account, but, for the sake of this exercise, let us suppose that the so-called ‘taxpayer-funded experts’ are right. climate change is precisely that: climate changes all the time. so, what if earth’s climate decides to cool down instead of warm up? will it then be suggested that we must produce much more carbon dioxide to try and offset the cooling? of course not. they are so committed to their present ‘global warming’ prediction, that that would not be an option, but, sadly, it looks as if that is what is happening. for the last nine years since 1998, global temperature on earth has remained the same. for the past decade the world has not warmed. global warming has stopped. that is not a viewpoint or a sceptic’s inaccuracy, it is an observational fact. it is also a scientific fact that far more people die from being too cold than from being too warm. so, to sum up, if global warming has been just a temporary blip, and we are now heading relentlessly for the next ice age, any reductions in co2 emissions will have precisely the opposite asserted effect to that which is intended. in the billions of years of earth’s existence, a very brief pause to check the facts is surely not too much to ask.
madam president, no one ever said that meeting the challenge of global warming would be easy, but i am glad that the european union here is taking the lead in trying to turn aspirations into practical policies. numbers have been thrown about in an almost casual fashion – a lot of 20s by 2020 – and conjuring up these figures is easy, but the hard part is reaching the targets which are now being set. in my country, the united kingdom, for instance, i am very conscious that it is going to take quite a dramatic change of direction and a very rough gear change to meet these targets. i think this new policy direction is long overdue, but i am conscious of the difficulties and the realities before us. i have two principal fears. the first is that governments will sign the pledge but fail to deliver, so i want to know how we are going to build in some sort of interim targets, some penalty structure, to ensure that the promises are delivered at the end of the day. my second fear is that, in trying to do good, we will do some harm. my biggest concern here is over biofuels. i hear the comments of the energy commissioner, but the idea that we could risk tropical forest destruction and force up world food prices in order to featherbed our car manufacturers is, frankly, sickening, and we must be very cautious indeed about the sustainability criteria. i do have concerns about the direction of our own budget. we promote schemes that stimulate co2 emissions and it seems to me that we have to run faster just to catch up with ourselves. there are fine judgments to be made on many of these issues, but i know we are all working together towards a common purpose. this package of measures will promote innovation, stimulate investment and create millions of jobs. it must be seen not as a threat but as an opportunity for us all.
madam president, i welcome this package in principle, but we must recognise that renewables and efficiency gains are a domestic eu asset, which yields benefits for us, both as a sustainable low-carbon economy and for security of supply. we must also recognise that renewables are not the free lunch that some people think: they do have costs attached, which include financial, environmental and inflexibility factors. i share president barroso’s determination that we achieve our targets without loss of global competitiveness and without exporting jobs and businesses. whilst we are on the subject of targets, we must break with the past performance, where the eu has a dismal record in failing to meet targets. we can only agree to binding targets if they are achievable. i welcome the approach of market mechanisms, like the emissions trading system, but i hope we can improve the methodology and make it work better to achieve our aims. finally, let me make the suggestion that we should resist the temptation to be technology-specific, we should resist being obsessive about renewables as the solution, when it is the objective of drastic emissions reduction that matters most and, therefore, we must use the full range of means available and not rule out any option.
mr president, the minutes of the last part-session mention your speech in which you talked about incidents that took place in strasbourg in december. since that time, under rule 147 of our revered rules of procedure, you have called before you 13 members of this parliament to face disciplinary action. it seems to me that this has been done on a pretty arbitrary basis. i doubt whether one of those that you have called – ms sinnott from our group – has ever shouted at anybody in her life. another of the members that you called to appear in the headmaster’s study – an austrian member – was actually in frankfurt on the day, so he must have one hell of a voice, must he not? why only 13? there were about 80 of us involved in these so-called disturbances. in fact, at the conference of presidents’ meeting, you yourself named me as being one of the causes of the trouble, so why am i not being punished? i am spartacus! (cries of ‘i am spartacus!’ from members of the ind/dem group)
mr president, on a point of order, under rules 173, 19(1), 161 and 171, the decision by the committee on constitutional affairs which you cited a moment ago represents, i am sorry to say, the moment at which this parliament departs from any pretence of legality or the rule of law. last week, you asked for, and were granted by the committee on constitutional affairs, discretionary powers arbitrarily to disapply the rules of procedure of this house according to your own view. the rules allow no such latitude. you cited rule 19(1). let me read what it says: ‘the president shall direct all the activities of parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in these rules.’ they do not allow you discretionary power to set them aside simply because you do not like the opinions of the people making amendments or requests that, in your letter, you accepted ‘were formally based on and fulfilled the requirements of … the rules of procedure’. what has driven you to this, mr president? what action has driven you to this extremity of tearing up your own rule book rather than following the letter of the law? was it some filibuster that was preventing any business getting through? hardly! those of us who are asking for a referendum perhaps represent 40 or 50 out of 785. we are a small minority. the worst we could do was slightly to delay your lunch by making speeches of one minute, but even this is intolerable to you! could it be that the reason you have acted in this arbitrary fashion, tearing up the rule of law, is because you are taking out on us the surrogate contempt you feel for the national electorates who keep voting ‘no’ on the lisbon treaty whenever they are given the opportunity? if i am wrong, prove me wrong by holding the referendums that you used to support when you thought you could win them. put the treaty of lisbon to the people. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i thank mr solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner for the immensely hard work on the issue of the islamic republic of iran, which is causing so many headaches and worries to so many people internationally and on the security council of the un. it was my pleasure to represent my group on the recent delegation to the islamic republic of iran just before christmas, when we had a very exceptionally good sequence of meetings, to which mr solana has already referred, as has mrs ferrero-waldner. of course, our call for dialogue in the islamic republic of iran does fall on very welcome ears, because, as you well know, the former president of iran put forward to the united nations in 2000 the idea of the intercultural year of dialogue, which you yourself have picked up this very year here in the european union. i believe there are huge possibilities for dialogue, but not just on human rights and not just on the all-important nuclear issue. i believe we should be having dialogue on cultural issues – music, art, archaeology, painting, calligraphy – in which we share so much historical reference and so much potential for future gain. i also believe that one critical item we should discuss is this so-called barrier between islam and democracy. perhaps it has not been noticed that the islamic republic of iran believes that she has cracked that particular difficulty, and that her form of democracy is fully comprehensible with the islamic republic of iran’s version of islam, the all-important shariah law and the shiite islamic tradition. i think this, again, is something that we should welcome and should discuss this very year, perhaps with former president khatami or with other members of the iranian religious influence and tradition.
mr president, deceit is a weapon of war approved of in the koran under the doctrine of taqiyya. iran professes no plans to develop nuclear weapons. evidence to the contrary is overwhelming. they had 3 000 uranium centrifuges already. not one can be used to generate nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. together they will produce one bomb’s worth of weapons-grade uranium a year. now iran plans to build 5 000 more centrifuges. meanwhile, illegal secret imports of raw uranium arrive from the congo, a country the eu supports with humanitarian aid. britain still allows iranian students to study nuclear physics at our universities. in addition to this, iran, syria and north korea are working together to assemble missiles and chemical warheads. last year, technicians from all three countries were killed when something went wrong in syria. traces of sarin gas were later detected in the atmosphere. whether or not these countries successfully develop nuclear warheads, chemical warheads would certainly be deployable in the near future.
mr president, both mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner have stressed repeatedly in their presentations today the need for dialogue, negotiation and persuasion. mrs ferrero-waldner highlighted the need for people-to-people contact. she told us of the success of our erasmus mundus and poverty alleviation programmes. so, are we training their nuclear physicists in our universities? are we, at our taxpayers’ expense, paying for poverty relief in one of the richest oil-producing nations in the world because they have chosen to spend billions on a nuclear weapons programme? what has our policy of appeasement achieved? according to mr solana, so far, no success. he said that the iranian regime continues to ignore us. mrs ferrero-waldner said that we have more executions than ever before. well, let me tell you, mr president, 23 people were executed in the first two weeks of this year, including several women. five people had their hands or feet amputated. men and women continue to be stoned to death by this jihadist, misogynous, homophobic, genocidal, brutal regime which is a world sponsor of terror. if we wish really to support iranian students, we should support the brave students of teheran university, who have been demonstrating for the past five days, demanding regime change. instead of backing appeasement, we should back the legitimate iranian opposition. instead of keeping the pmoi on our terror list, we should put the revolutionary guards of iran on the eu terror list.
mr president, iran remains a danger to the stability of the world and the middle east. iranian jihadis are fighting alongside terrorists in iraq, killing british soldiers. iran’s judges routinely pass death sentences on homosexuals and teenagers. why is iran pressing ahead with uranium enrichment when it has no operational nuclear power stations or even plans to build them in the future? why is iran developing shahab iii missiles with the potential to carry nuclear warheads and drop them on european cities? our message must be clear and uncompromising. iran will not be allowed by the international community to arm itself with nuclear weapons.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as a member of parliament’s delegation to the palestinian legislative council, i have been trying to work out why, when we call for an end to settlement building, the israelis ignore us and we do nothing. why, when we call for the removal of the checkpoints, the israelis ignore us and we do nothing. why, when we call to an end to the collective punishment of people in gaza, the israelis ignore us and we do nothing. so i am really grateful to marc otte, the eu special representative to the middle east, who came to a meeting of the delegation yesterday and said that our policy – europe’s policy – is to follow the leadership given by america. now, just a few weeks ago, the prime minister of israel said of president bush, ‘he is not doing a single thing that i do not agree to. he does not support anything that i oppose. he does not say a thing that he thinks will make life harder for israel.’ so, american policy is israeli policy, and we europeans play follow the leader. so, no wonder our condemnation of israeli actions sounds so hollow to palestinians. and no wonder it is so lacking in success. this european approach led to us sponsoring the elections in palestine two years go, but then refusing to pay heed to the result – undermining our support for democracy across the middle east. this approach has led to us calling for the formation of a palestinian unity government – and when a unity government was formed, we refused to talk to the prime minister and half the cabinet, and the government collapsed. this approach has meant that we refuse to talk to representatives of hamas in gaza, even though they are the real power in that area. what lessons from our history have we learnt? is it not time that europe cut the strings that blind us and tie us to this one-sided policy of america and israel? is it not time we spoke with independence and acted with vision?
mr president, gaza remains a human tragedy, and none of us in this house can blame its long-suffering palestinian citizens from rushing through the rafah border-crossing breech in the wall to buy goods in egypt. nevertheless, eu-banned terrorist organisation hamas remains in brutal control of the territory and of the citizens of gaza, and hamas has continued the indiscriminate war crime, in my view, of launching qassam rockets on israeli civilians, including recently their longer-range version on ashkelon. this means that you cannot blame israel for maintaining an economic blockade, allowing in only essential humanitarian aid. i am sorry, mr davies; i am sorry, mr cohn-bendit: if hamas stops the rockets, israel will lift the blockade – it is as simple as that.
a uachtaráin, d’éist mé go cúramach leis an choimisinéir ferrero-waldner ach ní leor, i mo bharúil, a bheith ag labhairt faoi rudaí a éascú agus a spreagadh nuair atá polasaí de chuid rialtas iosrael taobh thiar den mhéid a chonaiceamar ag an teorainn idir gaza agus an éigipt. caithfidh institiúidí na heorpa gníomhú; caithfear an fód a sheasamh in éadan rialtas iosrael agus a rá os ard agus go soiléir nach nglacfar leis an imshuí mídhaonna atá ag plúchadh stráice gaza. tá beartas d’ollphionós in aghaidh dhaonra iomlán gaza idir lámha ag iosrael. san aonú haois is fiche níl an cineál seo gnímh inleithscéil. agus is dímheasúil iarrachtaí iosrael a chur in iúl nach bhfuil sé i gceist aige ach é féin a chosaint nuair is gnáth-phalaistínigh atá ag iarraidh saol a bhaint amach iad siúd atá ag fulaingt. caithfimid gníomhú agus caithfimid gan a bheith ag teacht ar ais anseo lá i ndiaidh lae agus seachtain i ndiaidh seachtaine agus mí i ndiaidh míosa gan rud éigin a dhéanamh ach a bheith ag labhairt faoi.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, on behalf of the pse group i would like to thank markus ferber for his report and his hard work over many years. the pse group accepts that a great deal of parliament’s first-reading position has been accepted by the council, and this will guarantee the universal service; it will guarantee the financing of that service; it will also recognise that social protection must be in place, and it delays the implementation by two years to the end of 2010 for all the old member states and 2012 for the new ones. in my view this is a good deal. there are those who still fight the anti-liberalisation battle. but that battle was lost over 15 years ago when parliament accepted – against my advice at the time – to liberalise the postal services sector. some of us in this parliament have delayed the full implementation for those long 15 years, but there comes a time, eventually, when we have to face up to reality. although, personally, i would like to see a second reading with no amendments, my group believe it is right to clarify the financing of the universal service and to protect those services presently provided for the visually impaired and the blind. so we will be supporting amendments 1, 2, 6, 18 and 19. we must ensure that postal services are able to compete, not necessarily against each other, but against other technologies. but we need the playing field to be level, and i hope, with the reservations i have outlined, that we can conclude our work on this dossier based on our first-reading position and get back to the most important issue of providing a reliable, regular and affordable postal service to our citizens, and to recognising the important work done by all those postmen and women throughout the european union. finally, when markus ferber and i started work on this dossier, neither of us had any grey hairs. now look at the both of us!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i note the phrase ‘a fixed and irrevocable date’. one thing eu designer jean monnet hated about democracy was that nothing is irrevocable. no democratic government can bind its successor with the irrevocable. there is a democratic deficit in the eu because the ever-closer union was designed as irrevocable. no openings for democracy. the people may only vote to support what the eu elite want. it is a one-way street. the french and dutch people voted against this irrevocable union. ignoring them and introducing the same failed constitution proves my point. you are failing to learn from history. the soviet union went. hitler’s tausendjähriges reich lasted 12 years. the backlash you are creating by denying the people a referendum will bring this intolerant eu empire down as sure as day follows night.
madam president, parliament should pass our amendments to restore compulsory free postal services for blind people to this directive. mr vizjak, you say you were open and flexible and yet you completely rebuffed parliament’s amendments on compulsory free services for blind people. we have heard mr orban say tonight, on behalf of commissioner mccreevy, that our amendments do not bring added value to postal users. mr orban, are not blind people postal users? and is not the real added value you are talking about the actual added costs that blind people are going to have to be forced to pay? to mr ferber, i regret to say that i believe you were wrong to make a deal, dropping this requirement which parliament passed at first reading. yesterday you also failed to answer my question: is there a threat to blind people’s services? i hope you will today. because if there is not, what objection can you have to putting this into the directive? if there is, that shows why we need to put it in. in italy, germany, finland, the netherlands, greece and portugal, the post office, not the government, provides this free service. new and existing providers in a liberalised market will inevitably seek to cut costs; blind people must not be the victims. after liberalisation in new zealand, blind people’s services were ended. we must not let it happen here. finally, for those who tell us that they are sympathetic to disabled people but this is not the right place or way to do it, you told us that about the lifts directive and the buses and coaches directive, other single market legislation. but parliament said no, and we insisted on binding access for disabled people. today, again, we must insist on compulsory rights for europe’s blind and partially-sighted people.
madam president, this directive is yet another example of how one-size-fits-all, incompetent eu legislation adversely affects the lives of british people. this directive is the reason why post offices are closing and why postal workers will lose their jobs. post offices play a vital role in the community, especially for the old, the poor, the immobile and the disabled. this is just one of a multitude of eu laws that have damaged, and will continue to damage, my country. the british people know this, and this is one of the reasons why they are being denied a referendum on the eu constitution. if it is ratified, they can look forward to a lot more of the same.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 31.1.2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the outcome of the bali climate change conference.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i think the minister is correct in saying that we can be content with the agreement, and we can congratulate those involved in securing it. i do not underestimate the difficulties in getting between here and copenhagen in 2009; besides other matters – the rainforest issue and the technological transfer – there are all sorts of hurdles in the way. we also have to be aware that climate change is going to take place anyway, whatever the outcome of these negotiations is. i was at the holocaust memorial day service in liverpool on sunday, and i was conscious of just how is europe, how are our people, how are our politicians going to react as billions of people across the world find themselves in positions of acute water scarcity, with ever more movement, ever more migration across the planet? what sort of reaction is there going to be? how much bigotry is going to be caused by this inevitable consequence? we must do what we can. i have high hopes of emissions trading. i think it is getting better all the time, and i think the cap-and-trade system allows us really to tackle a huge proportion of the gases. technology, too, is improving and being stimulated. i had a fantastic meeting this afternoon about reducing co2 from cars, where the push that the introduction of the legislation has given seems to be already transforming attitudes and opening up opportunities. maybe we can actually reach those targets without the need for biofuels. we can put those into power stations. and carbon capture and storage (ccs): i really think we could be more ambitious in our targets. i think we could bring that forward by perhaps three or four years and try to get realistic programmes up and running well before 2020. we need, from the european summit this spring, to get some firm commitments from governments. but, also on the european summit, i would say: renewable energy and energy saving – i think there is huge opportunity for governments to slip there, not to deliver on the goods, to find it politically difficult to bring about the institutional changes necessary, and i think the commission needs to put as much pressure as possible to name and shame, to find new mechanisms, to ensure that member states deliver on the goals they have now agreed.
madam president, i understand that, on the day the bali climate conference commenced, there were so many private jets that bali’s airport ran out of parking space. thus do our achievements fall short of our aspirations. the bali conference was supposed to pave the way for a post-kyoto consensus, but kyoto itself has failed. not only did we fail to engage some of the world’s largest emitters, here in europe only a handful of member states will actually achieve their kyoto obligations. indeed, the united states, which we vilify for not ratifying kyoto, is actually doing better than the eu in terms of emissions trend. yet we have agreed little more at bali than to keep talking in our attempts to replace one failed climate treaty with another. i would like to see us worry less about climate change and more about energy security. let us hear less about wind farms and auto emissions and more about investment in nuclear generating capacity and in waste-to-energy incinerators.
mr president, alexander litvinenko testified to the mitrokhin commission in italy and made to me personally the allegation that romano prodi was an agent of some kind of the kgb. mario scaramella of the mitrokhin commission later came to london to warn mr litvinenko of murder threats. mr litvinenko was soon murdered. mr scaramella returned to italy, where he was immediately arrested. he has been detained for the last 13 months on trumped-up charges, without trial and denied access to the outside world. mr scaramella has lost his income, his home, is separated from his children and his health is at risk. mario scaramella is a political prisoner. his continued detention is a scandal at the heart of the european union. his only offence, if it can be so called, was to help shine a light into the rotten corners of european politics. all democrats should call for his immediate, unconditional release.
mr president, i wanted to raise the issue of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), a disease which by 2020 will be the third largest cause of death worldwide. copd killed 2.7 million people in 2000. up to three quarters of people with copd have difficulty with simple tasks such as walking upstairs. copd is associated with many other health problems, and smoking is not the only risk factor: environmental tobacco smoke and pollution are also linked to copd. as the population ages, copd will become a bigger problem. i urge colleagues to sign written declaration 0102/2007.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs very much for their good collaboration on this report. energy efficiency is vital for cutting carbon emissions, enhancing security of supply and boosting economic efficiency. in october 2006 the commission produced an action plan for energy efficiency, proposing a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 and setting out 10 priority areas for action. these ranged from appliances to buildings and transport and included financial incentives, energy efficiency awareness and much more. eu heads of state endorsed the commission’s action plan last march and energy efficiency made the headlines because chancellor merkel declared that inefficient incandescent light bulbs should be banned. now it is the parliament’s turn to assess the action plan. i hope that our report will send out a strong signal about what meps want to see happen on energy efficiency. the first signal that this report makes is that some of the commission’s proposals do not quite go far enough. i would like to give three examples. firstly, the proposal to revise the energy performance of buildings directive: the commission proposes minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and for building components, which is good. buildings are key to cutting energy demand. over 40% of the energy we use is consumed in buildings and 75% of the buildings standing today will still be here in 2050, so we need to tackle energy efficiency in existing buildings as well as in new stock. but we should not just be lowering the 1 000 m2 threshold in the energy performance of buildings directive – we should be getting rid of it altogether and applying the directive to all buildings requiring heating and cooling, regardless of size. we also need to bring forward the deadline for a passive house standard for residential and non-residential buildings across europe. it is not good enough just to have this as a medium-term goal. secondly, on appliances, parliament’s report welcomes the proposal to put in place minimum energy performance requirements coupled with a dynamic system of energy labelling, to keep up with advances in technology. but our report calls on the commission to come forward with a one-watt performance requirement for standby, and to carry out an analysis of the potential energy savings to be made from eliminating standby altogether. our report also urges the commission to set a timetable for taking completely off the market some very energy-inefficient items of equipment, such as patio heaters. thirdly, the report calls for more help for small businesses, which are particularly affected by rising fuel prices and in need of energy efficiency. unfortunately, both the eu and national financing schemes tend to be complex. it is fine if you are a big company, but if you are a microbusiness with a handful of employees, you do not have the capacity to access complex programmes. small businesses need to be treated like domestic households and offered simple schemes and up-front money. so that is the first message of the report: that we need to go a little further. the second big message is that there has been a failure by both the commission and national governments to implement existing energy efficiency legislation. the commission’s action plan for saving 20% by 2020 is not a stand-alone plan. it builds very heavily on previous legislation, and the implementation of this legislation has been a disgrace. the buildings directive has only been properly transposed by a handful of member states. six months after the 30 june deadline, a third of member states have still not submitted their national energy efficiency action plans. the commission has not put in place all the 20 extra staff it said were necessary to deliver energy efficiency commitments and, for that reason, the timetable on the action plan has slipped. i would, however, like to thank the commission for responding in a very positive and constructive manner to the criticisms voiced in this report and, in particular, the exchange of letters between commissioner piebalgs and ms niebler, which has brought an update to parliament on the situation.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their positive and supportive comments, and also to say again that i appreciate that the commission is being very constructive in response to the criticism from parliament. i would just like to take up two points. first, i think it was indeed a shame that there was not more attention paid to the commission’s assessment of the energy efficiency action plans that came out with the energy package last week because it was a very worryingly downbeat assessment. it is clear that national governments are still not being ambitious enough in their action plans. they are not looking ahead to the 20% target and, to quote the commission, there exists a ‘considerable gap’ in certain member states ‘between the political commitment to energy efficiency … and the measures adopted’. i think that this is worrying. secondly, the fact that we now have the renewables directive and the targets therein means that energy efficiency has never been more important. if we are going to reach the 20% binding target across the eu, we have to keep energy demand under control. we can only do 20% if the 100% of the total amount of energy use is something that is reduced rather than being allowed to increase. so i hope this report does mark a new beginning and that it marks the start of a closing of the gap between political rhetoric on energy efficiency and its actual implementation.
in writing. – mr president, i congratulate ms hall on this report, which contains a number of sold, sensible, achievable suggestions to encourage energy efficiency. amidst the current fuss on generation and security of supply we risk losing sight of the fact that changes in building and equipment standards, as well as how we use energy, will in themselves allow a great deal of energy capacity. i am glad to support this report and hope that it will be the start of more measures in this direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of the committee on fisheries for the excellent work. we all share the view that discarding is, to say the least, an unnecessary waste of good natural and economic resources that should be stopped. however, each fishery is different and requires tailor-made solutions. we have therefore chosen a results-based approach which implies that we set targets to reduce the amount of discards over a timeframe and then leave it up to the fishermen concerned to choose how to reach the targets – such measures could include an increase in mesh size, the use of selectivity devices, real-time closures, spatial changes of activity or any other possible measure or a combination thereof. turning now specifically to the report. concerning community action plans on seabirds and sharks, i can inform you that the latter is under way and that, on the former, my services are gathering information and scientific advice with a view to completing the plan by the end of 2009. i particularly agree that the discard policy should not be seen as an isolated action but as part of the general approach to move towards the msy objective. we are also in agreement concerning a case-by-case approach and the importance of participation and consultation of the sector at all levels. here i note with interest your proposal to test new uses of monitoring of discard practices as was done in some third countries. in addition we must ensure that incentives reward a real reduction in discards. they therefore need to be assessed carefully so as not to lead to adverse effects. indeed, member states already have possibilities to favour cleaner fisheries through the allocation of quotas. having said this, i am of the view that incentives should accompany the various phases of implementation, in order to boost a change in behaviour until the final objective is reached. concerning policy implementation, i generally agree with your suggestions, with a different focus, however. we should set the goal of a discard ban in a fishery wherever this is possible from the outset and not as a last resort measure as you seem to suggest. i need to clarify here, however, that in certain instances the set target may be that of reducing discards to the absolute minimum possible. so where are we in the process? on the basis of scientific advice expected soon, we will choose fisheries for specific legislation during the course of this year and at the same time plan a roadmap with a timeframe for the subsequent proposals covering – over time – all european fisheries. in parallel, as decided at the december council, member states will trial discard reductions in the whitefish fishery in the north sea in order to reduce discards of whiting by 30%. for cod, the commitment with norway is to reduce discards to less than 10%. other activities include the proposal on technical measures in the atlantic, the proposal on a revised cod recovery plan, the revision of the control regulation and several studies and impact assessments for the legislative proposals. finally, i can agree on amendments 1, 3, 5, 6, 8 and 10 to 12. amendments 2 and 7 are related and i can agree to them with a slight change. on amendment 9, some cautious thinking is needed since these techniques need further research. there are problems with high costs and reliability. finally, i cannot support amendment 4 as such. with respect to amendments 13, 14 and 15, i need to reflect further, since the whole question concerning appropriate incentives for fishers to encourage them to adopt an effective discards policy needs to be further studied and assessed before a definitive position is adopted. let me conclude by restating the urgent need for legislative action on this file, and i look forward to your continued cooperation in developing this policy.
on behalf of the pse group . – madam president, discards are an appalling waste. vast quantities of fish are thrown away every year in european fisheries around the world: as much as seven to eight million tonnes. doing nothing to reduce discards is not an option and we now have the schlyter report as an own-initiative response to the commission’s 2007 communication. the commission’s communication is welcome, despite the delayed action, and the commission now intends to act quickly, with certain aspects to be included in a new technical measure regulation in 2008. in an ideal world we would move straight to a complete and instant ban on discards. but the reality is more complicated. mr schlyter’s report recognises the complexity of dealing with the problem of discarding fish and i really welcome his inclusive approach. it highlights practical aspects including the cost of dealing with discards and what to do with landed discards, the costs of introducing more selective gear, the implications for the total allowable catches and quota regime if discarding is banned, and the need to give fishermen incentives to fish in a more sustainable way. it acknowledges that, since both the causes of discards and the measures needed to reduce them vary from fishery to fishery, no single solution will work throughout the community. an amnesty on discards is not the solution as it may create a market in discards instead of encouraging fishermen to fish in a sustainable way. given the levels of overfishing and concerns over fishing stocks including cod and bluefin tuna, we still need good management of existing stocks. the report also places the discards issue in the broader context of the problem of by-catches of seabirds and of sharks and it calls for a significant range of pilot discard projects with a geographical spread. i call on colleagues to support this report which makes an important contribution to dealing with the disgrace of discards.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group warmly welcomes the content of mr schlyter’s report, which is to be commended for its sensitive, yet highly practical, approach. members of the public find it almost impossible to understand just how it is that we can allow fish to be caught and then thrown back dead into the sea. fishermen too have major concerns with the fact that this kind of action is, to some extent, forced upon them, for the current combination of rules and technical possibilities means that some fish are simply not wanted on board. sometimes this is because they are of insufficient economic value. we must make an early and concerted effort to prevent the kind of discarding that results from attempts at high grading. i suspect that there is already less temptation to this practice in those fisheries where days at sea are limited. sometimes, though, discarding is the outcome of conditions we ourselves impose, for example minimum landing sizes, and restrictions on quotas. of course, if we are serious about conservation, we need total allowable catches. but, in my own view, we need to look seriously at the methods we employ to keep fishing within the limits that are set by those tacs, to determine amongst other things, just how far there is an interconnection between the establishment of quotas and the problem of discards, particularly where mixed fisheries are concerned. this, as well as the adoption of the measures suggested in the report, must of course be undertaken with the full engagement of stakeholders. without that, we cannot hope for success. the industry is already leading the way. i am particularly proud of the scots, for their voluntary system of real-time closures. we need proper incentives to positive actions of this kind for a great deal remains to be done. i trust that parliament will give its full support to the report and that the commission and council will take matters forward in the manner it recommends.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the common fisheries policy (cfp) has been a miserable failure. it has failed to conserve stocks, it has failed to sustain our fishing-dependent communities and it has failed to win public support or credibility. one of the main reasons for that is the scandal of discarding. the cfp quota system itself is a direct cause of discarding. it does not measure the amount of fish caught; it only measures the amount of fish landed. that said, i broadly welcome this report by mr schlyter. in particular, i strongly agree with the principle of positive incentives giving some reward to those fishermen who take steps to reduce or eliminate discards. i also agree that measures must be tailored to different types of fishery. it has long been a major flaw of the cfp that it has been over-centralised and inflexible. i draw attention to paragraph 15, which welcomes the voluntary real-time closure scheme introduced by scotland, an excellent example of the kind of initiative which should be encouraged and incentivised by the cfp at least for as long as we are stuck with it as a management measure.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, discards are just one aspect of the nightmare that is the cfp. the eu, through its ill thought-out policy, is destroying livelihoods in developing nations across the world. the export of fish is significantly more important to the developing world in trade terms than other commodities such as rice, coffee and tea. mauritania, for example, is dependent on its fishing industry for half of its exports, which represent 15% of its gdp. but, having devastated mauritanian waters, the commission now wants to dump its deal. it does not think that these now sterile waters are worth eur 86 million a year. this denunciation of a fisheries agreement is supposed to be a secret; well, it was until now. i think african people should know about the eu’s shabby and dishonourable plans. it is colonialism at its most vicious, and i accuse these institutions of racism and exploitation of vulnerable societies. president barroso’s non-imperial empire is not as benign as he would have us believe, so, if you want to move forward, discard giscard and dump the lisbon treaty as well as the cfp.
madam president, the scandal of discards is one of the eu’s own making. impossible quotas and restrictions are imposed in mixed fisheries, prohibited stocks are inevitably caught and in consequence they are dumped back – dead – into the sea. and all this while hunger prevails in many parts of the world. for years the eu has wrung its hands over this but, frankly, has done nothing to stop it. such fish, i believe, should be landed; they should be sold at a fixed price, sufficiently low to discourage deliberate catching and sufficiently high to make their landing worthwhile. also, it is sensible and right that we should reward the use of more selective fishing gear. but i do most positively reject any blanket discard ban as translating into yet another device of driving more of our fishermen out of business. we have ruminated on this issue for years. now is the time, at last, to do something about it.
(inaudible) … from the outset, i think that is highly ambitious. can i also congratulate mr schlyter and mrs doyle for the great amount of work they have both done on this report? i am delighted to support mrs doyle’s land-all policy, whereby fishermen will be compelled to land everything they catch. it has many benefits. scientists will get a much clearer picture of what fish are being caught and where, which will enable more accurate conservation and recovery plans to be devised. also, when young, undersized fish are landed, fisheries inspectors could immediately call for a temporary closure of specific fishing grounds to avoid further pressure on immature stocks. under this policy, undersized fish and other species which previously would have been discarded could be sold to the processing sector, which is desperate for raw material to supply the fishmeal and fish oil industry. they would be paid – through a regional compensation fund – a token amount, say about eur 50 a tonne, which would not be enough to encourage targeting these fish and creating the black market that ms fraga estévez fears, but would be too much to throw them, dead, back into the water. the whole operation could be policed by attaching weatherproof cctv cameras to every vessel. in an industry already constrained by limitations of the number of days that can be spent at sea, time spent catching and sorting fish of no commercial value is regarded by fishermen as valuable time lost. so i think fishermen will support this proposal.
madam president, i thank mr schlyter very much for his report. i think it is excellent. can i also thank the commissioner for his points at the beginning, where he is moving towards a discard ban, because he is very well aware that i have seen him many times, as many other members of this house have, about bringing in a discard ban, and i think it is high time we did it. i also think that, at the end of the day, if we can protect fisheries’ stocks, then actually it is better for fishermen in the long run, because we do have to have sustainable fisheries. of course the scientific advice that we are using can very often be flawed. therefore, the landing of all catch and by-catch so that it can be thoroughly investigated will actually give us a much better idea of what is in the sea. i also think that some of the practices, such as pair trawling and others, which do have an awful lot of by-catch, again, will emphasise what is happening. of course, a lot of trouble catching dolphins, sharks and porpoises and many other things will be highlighted in the by-catch that is landed. so, if we can bring in the right amount of carrots to encourage it to be landed and not too much to encourage by-catch, then i think this is the way forward. so i welcome the commissioner’s support for this report, i welcome the report itself, and we should all support it.
i scríbhinn. – is mian liom an coiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach a mholadh as a dtionscnaíocht agus iad ag brú le haghaidh gnímh chun an acmhainneacht a bhaineann le grúpálacha eorpacha um chomhoibriú críche, atá beartaithe, a thabhairt chun solais. is féidir leis na ccgeanna nua, má ghníomhaíonn na ballstáit leis an reachtaíocht a chur i bhfeidhm, dinimic nua maidir le comhoibriú trasteorann a éascú agus leibhéal níos mó muiníne agus comhoibrithe trasna teorainneacha a chothú. i mo thír scoilte féin bhí ról suntasach ag tionscnaimh mar seo agus ag scéimeanna eile arna dtacú ag an ae chun tionchair dhíobhálacha na críochdheighilte in éirinn a mhaolú. tacaím go hiomlán leis an loighic chiallmhar maidir le comhoibriú cuntasach trasteorann mar idéal eorpach. is mór an riachtanas atá ar éirinn gach féidearthacht a bhaineann le comhoibriú críche trasteorann a fhiosrú toisc gurb iad ár gcontaetha teorann na contaetha is boichte agus is tearcfhorbartha. is fada uainn anois an mhoilleadóireacht agus na leithscéalta. tá dualgas ar bhallstáit i dtaca lena réigiúin teorann chun reachtaíocht ccge a chur i bhfeidhm a luaithe is féidir.
mr president, yesterday the president announced an interpretation of rule 19 which puts this house in plain violation of its own regulations. we have now departed from the rule of law and given arbitrary power to the chair to tear up our rule book and proceed as he sees fit. this is plainly illegal under our own rules. this chamber may be sovereign but it must, nonetheless, follow its own rules. this interpretation by the committee on constitutional affairs is going to be contested today. it may come before this house in a vote. if we vote in favour, collectively, we are voting to abandon the rules under which we proceed. i would almost be tempted to compare it to the ermächtigungsgesetz of 1933, but i think that would be disproportionate and perhaps a little rude to our president, who is a committed democrat and a decent man. let me instead quote the grandfather of british resistance to totalitarianism, edmund burke. ‘they must be worse than blind who do not see with what undeviating regularity of system, in this case and in all cases, they pursue their scheme for the utter destruction of every independent power. ... their will is the law, not only at home, but as to the concerns of every nation. ... they have swept away the very constitutions under which the legislatures acted –’ (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are looking at the progress that the european union has made towards becoming this area of freedom, security and justice. this means a development towards a europe in which both civil rights are upheld and complex issues of law enforcement, such as terrorism and transnational crime, are addressed. but, unfortunately, what we have had in the last 10 years is a failure to strike the right balance between security, freedom and justice, and actually rather a narrow definition of security. law enforcement needs to be better targeted and civil liberties need an upgrade. for instance, the failure – in 10 years – to agree on a measure upholding minimum rights for suspects and defendants is a real hole in the record. advocate-general maduro, in an opinion on terrorist blacklists – quoting, i think, from the israeli supreme court – said, ‘it is when the cannons roar that we especially need the laws. there are no black holes. the war against terrorism is also law’s war against those who rise up against it.’ it is a pity that the council of member states did not bear that in mind in considering our report from the temporary committee on extraordinary rendition. we have had no substantive response to that report. i agree with commissioner frattini that we need an agreement between the commission, council and parliament about the way forward in the transition from the unsatisfactory intergovernmental procedures in criminal justice to normal community decision-making. this is going to take a change of culture and attitude as well as procedures. some of the third-pillar measures in the pipeline, like prüm, data protection, eu p&r, are of low-quality in terms of both democratic scrutiny and civil liberties safeguards.a lot of confidence is being invested in technological projects, either of exchange of data between member states or of construction of new eu databases. i am all in favour of appropriate data sharing, but i caution against over-reliance on technological quick fixes. do not let us forget traditional, intelligence-led policing; even if it is more difficult in making it work across borders, it should not be relegated to a secondary effort in the light of the dazzling allure of databases, because this raises big questions of data protection and data security. i have asked commissioner frattini to consider doing a green paper on whether our regime of data security is adequate, particularly in the light of the scandalous losses of data in the uk. he has declined so far. i hope he might reconsider. also, can he consider the need for that in the light of the route of profiling that we are going down? commissioner frattini does not acknowledge this, but the uk government does quite openly say, ‘we are doing profiling’. let us have a debate about what safeguards we need. finally, on the uk opt-out, i think colleagues in parliament might appreciate – and certainly i, as a british mep would – having some idea what the uk strategy will be in the use of the opt-ins and opt-outs, because i think that would be quite helpful in making clear that the uk intends to engage positively in justice and home affairs in the years to come.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my group would agree with much of what has been said, particularly the emphasis on the need for the protection of fundamental rights as a core basis of many of the decisions we would like to see taken in the remaining period of this parliament. my group would also agree that an interinstitutional agreement would be useful to avoid the sort of arbitrary use of codecision that we have seen on occasion, that sort of arbitrary use at the behest of the council when many of us felt, because things could not be got through by unanimity, parliament was being used as a sort of alibi. we would rather see these sort of arrangements set within a proper framework – and within something that is not going to delay for five years much of the progress that we want to see happen. in terms of the issues about fundamental rights, we are deeply concerned that one of the issues which does not seem to have been resolved in the council is the question of procedural safeguards. many in this parliament agreed to the introduction of the european arrest warrant, believing that procedural safeguards would soon follow. others who were obviously more sceptical said we wanted to see the safeguards first and then we would look at greater cooperation between member states. so we would like to know, please, when we can expect these measures, which are deeply important to all of our citizens. we also share the concern voiced this morning on questions about data protection. there are growing concerns about the lack of transparency and, certainly, growing public concern about the way in which data is being used and exchanged without any clear information to the public as to what exactly is happening. i was slightly concerned, to put it mildly, to hear the council talk about the issues of the returns directive, saying that some member states do not want return to become more difficult. some of us might believe that what this means is that the council does not want to see a safe, secure and open procedure put in place that guarantees the rights of individuals rather than simply, as in the case of some member states, trying to meet targets through return. we do not want return necessarily to become more difficult. we want it to become a more open procedure which safeguards rights. one of the issues with which we have concern, for example, is the use by some member states of an automatic re-entry ban. we also share the concerns on length of detention. i welcome the statement that was made about the proposal on highly-qualified migrants. at last we may see a positive measure on an immigration policy, a move away from what some of us see as a policy of deterrents that the union has been following for some time. at last we will get an agreement on something more positive and more open, even if it is only affects a small part of those people coming to the european union. but i would welcome a comment, please, on what is happening on the sanctions against employers. lastly, i would also like an answer to the question posed to both the council and commission on the comment about the uk’s position on treaty reform.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i rise under rule 170(4) to make the point that this proposal that we are being asked to vote on gives the president of this parliament such arbitrary and dictatorial powers that no one who believes in democracy would ever even consider it. but to be asked to vote on it, when the political groups in this parliament have not even had time to discuss it, surely cannot be right. so i ask that this vote be adjourned to the next part-session in strasbourg so that people actually get a chance to understand the huge implications of this vote if it is passed.
mr president, an absolute majority is not the same as the rule of law. i accept that there is a minority in this house in favour of a referendum, and that there is a minority in this house against the ratification of the lisbon treaty. but this house must nonetheless follow its own rule books. and by popular acclamation to discard the rules under which we operate is indeed an act of arbitrary and despotic rule. it is only my regard for you, mr president, and my personal affection for you that prevents me from likening it to the ermächtigungsgesetz of 1933, which was also voted through by a parliamentary majority. i ask this house not to vote on this matter until we have ... (protests)
mr president, i rise under rule 151(3) to ask whether we have legitimacy, in fact, to vote on this. i had the pleasure of your company last evening at 5 o’clock, when the temperature in your office was 80°f. this whole building is overheated. the building in strasbourg is overheated, and i would suggest that we put our own house in order before we start voting on other things.
mr president, you will have to excuse the fact that i have lost my voice. i wish to state that i voted in favour of this interpretation and i want to say that mr hannan’s comparison, while pretending not to make it, of our vote with hitler’s ermächtigungsgesetz of 1933 was an absolutely disgraceful comparison. but such a ludicrous comparison just shows the state of mind of the person making it. we have simply confirmed, in accordance with our rules, that rule 19 of our rules of procedure already gives the president of parliament the right to bring an end to successive uses of points of order, procedural motions etc., ‘where the president is convinced that these are manifestly intended to cause and will result in a prolonged and serious obstruction of the procedures of the house or the rights of other members’. this is not stifling debate. we have ample speaking time in debates, shared out proportionally to every group in accordance with their size. this is simply a safeguard against those who are trying to disrupt this house. the powers that our president has are far less than what exists in most national parliaments, if you take the speaker of the house of commons, for instance. we are right to take that safeguard measure, and i note that the former leader of mr hannan’s party, a member of our committee, actually voted in favour of that, so his attitude is disgraceful.
mr president, may i thank you for your very wise interpretation of your new powers in allowing us to make explanations of vote even if we did not put our name down for this report? may i also thank you for allowing mr corbett an extra half a minute to make a political aside that might not have been truly relevant to the subject of the matter? i just rise to say that i really do think this is an aberration of our rules of procedure. i am very concerned about it. i have been in communication with the presidency, and i hope the presidency respects the views of the minority of this parliament. mr corbett made the statement that we had the opportunity to rise within debates in this house because all groups get speaking time. alas, as we have seen today, sometimes some groups are not as tolerant of different views as others. it is very difficult to get speaking time for those members that might express a minority view in a big group. thank you very much indeed for allowing us to make this point.
mr president, thank you very much for showing discretion on this matter and allowing me to take the floor to offer my explanation of vote. i did understand what i was voting for on this issue, and i clearly voted against. i understand that some people in this house interpret the rules and i understand that to mean that we are within our rules on this. but what i would say is that we always have to be very careful about giving arbitrary powers to a chairman or a president. i am sure that the president and the vice-presidents of this current parliament will use these powers with extreme caution, and i am sure we welcome that. but what of future presidents? what of future chairmen who choose to interpret these rules as they see fit, to frown upon dissent and to suppress it? we have to be careful that this is not a slippery slope, or perceived to be a slippery slope, to dictatorship, rather than a diversity of views. therefore, i say to everyone, the true test of a democracy is how you treat your minorities, and, if you treat your minorities well, then we can all be agreed that this is a true democracy.
mr president, i am sorry. i was temporarily delayed by a colleague. we were discussing democracy: a very important concept that i am sure we all support in this house, even though we do not always act that way. i understand about the amendments to this report in terms of cooperation between the different special intervention units, but we have to remember that this is actually an amendment to the prüm treaty. the british conservatives originally opposed the prüm treaty. the reason that we opposed it was because, initially, it was an agreement on cooperation between a limited number of member states. under the presidency of one of the member states, they decided to extend this provision without proper consultation. even the european data protection supervisor had to submit his own opinion after he realised he was not consulted. we as conservatives are against the use of rapid border intervention units and the implementation of the prüm treaty, and we did not support the amendments to this treaty.
mr president, before i became a member of the european parliament, i had a real job. one job i had was advising companies on the newly liberalised industries – the telecoms industry, the postal industry (to a limited extent) and the energy industry. what we saw in telecoms liberalisation was an explosion in choice. we saw an explosion in innovation. we saw competition leading to lower prices and consumers and businesses across europe, which led to great innovation and great choice for all consumers. let us hope that, with this directive, what we will now see is the same sort of market discipline that was applied to the telecom sector spread to the postal sector; that we will enjoy a spread of wealth, innovation and better services right across europe; and that, at the end of the day, it will be the consumer who wins.
mr president, i would like to associate my comments with the latter part of mr kamall’s statement because i truly believe that liberalisation in the postal services market is the way forward for innovation and consumer choice. i have a significant problem, though, with the definition of universal services and how that is applied to rural services. earlier this week, in my own constituency in the uk, there was an announcement that seven post offices would close. this was after a massive consultation. some of these post offices were profitable. the consultation reports stated that nearly 100% of people were in favour of keeping these post offices open. however, because of a definition of what service was required by government, the consultation turned into a sham, everybody was ignored. rural services will be decimated in places like staverton, hellidon, brington and harlestone, and milton malsor in my constituency. so i am very concerned about the implementation of this directive within member states.
mr president, unlike the previous colleague who spoke, i do not own my own power station, but i do own a very old house – an 1840s house – and it is a wonderful house. if you are ever in london, you are most welcome to drop in for a cup of tea. but what i would like to say is that, whatever one feels about climate change, i think we can all be in favour of the need for energy efficiency. you may not realise this, but i represent london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world. we have a number of office blocks and buildings that leave their lights on at night. that is a sign of success, but they should be aware of energy efficiency. we also have a number of establishments for the hospitality industry – restaurants and pubs – and recently, due to smoking bans, they have been forced to use patio heaters to accommodate their customers who wish to sit outside and have a cigarette. what worries me is that it is a completely disproportionate measure to ban the use of these patio heaters, which contribute less than 0.1% to co2 emissions. so let us get this in context. we all need better energy efficiency, but let us have solutions that are workable.
mr president, like everyone in this house i know the statistics that are commonly available, that prove that we could save ourselves a ton of energy and a ton of problems in the future if we were more efficient about the way we use energy. i did not vote on this report, because i forgot to make a declaration of interest – of financial interest, no less. under paragraph 22, it calls for getting rid of fixed-cost systems by which people buy their energy, be it electricity or gas. i have signed up to a fixed-cost system in the united kingdom. i signed up to it because it is easy to budget for my energy bills, and millions of people – generally poor people – in the united kingdom do exactly the same thing. i think limiting their choice in this matter is a retrograde step. i also think we should be very savvy as to what we have called for in the past in this place and how we act. we talk about energy efficiency and energy saving, yet we still have trade difficulties with china – a massive tax on imports of energy-efficient light bulbs from that country. so we are being very two-faced in passing this report and not acting on those sorts of measures.
mr president, i rise on this report because i absolutely despise the common fisheries policy and the ecological disaster that it has caused for my country and the waters around it. there are many good things in this report because it aims to cut down on the amount of fish that are disposed of, that are caught and not needed, or for which fishermen do not have the appropriate quota. but this does not sort out the root of the problem, in that this is a policy that deserves to be consigned to the rubbish bin. it does not conserve fish, it does not help fishermen, and in fact many fishermen in my country think it would be best to get rid of it. there are plenty of examples around the world where fisheries policy aids conservation and keeps fishermen in jobs and doing what they want to do. iceland has transferable quotas that become the property of the fishermen and their families and which can be transferred throughout generations. we are not being wise enough or clever enough in this policy, and we should just get rid of it.
in writing. − the way the parliament conducts votes is sloppy, and this ruling will make it worse. this means that the rights of minorities have been curtailed. minorities will find it harder within the parliament to ensure that votes are credible. we must recognise that some vice-presidents are considerably better than others. in any case, i am of the view that the ‘electronic votes for everything’ policy was working pretty well. it means meps need to be in their seats and paying attention (and, let’s face it, many do not) and the lack of checks and challenges to the ruling of the chair mean that sessions are actually going pretty smoothly, and all votes are recorded for posterity so our electors can see, on the record, how individual members vote.
in writing. − i supported amendments which would have obliged member states to guarantee the financing of universal postal services. this is a hugely important issue, especially in the many rural and island communities of scotland. i also supported amendments tabled by my group calling for the strengthening of obligations to finance the provision of free postal services to blind and partially-sighted persons. the fact that the ferber report was approved unamended in these respects may lead to concern that further erosion of postal service provision could occur.
in writing. − the proposal seeks to create a european single market in postal services. without appropriate safeguards, liberalisation could jeopardise the concept of a universal service. the reluctance of the council to include a clear commitment to providing a free postal service for the blind and visually impaired in the proposal led me to vote in favour of making such a commitment more robust. in general, i am satisfied that the proposal sufficiently attends to the other issues and welcome the guarantee that letters will be regularly collected and delivered in remote areas and cities.
in writing. − only a few months ago us intelligence acknowledged that its claim that iran was developing nuclear weapons was in error. in fact, iran’s nuclear weapons programme was abandoned in 2001/2002. yet washington has failed to draw the appropriate political conclusion from this intellectual u-turn. the argument for deploying national missile defence technologies in eastern europe was to supposedly defend against a nuclear iran which had mysteriously acquired icbms. now if iran’s nuclear programme does not exist, the justification for nmd deployment vanishes, unless the hidden agenda is to threaten a resurgent russia. i am resolutely opposed to such a deployment and will campaign against it.
in writing. − i support the recommendations made in the resolution. however, as regards the pmoi, i voted against the amendments referring to the group in the text.
in writing. − i fully support the resolution’s assessment of the outcome of the bali summit negotiations. thanks to the eu, bali achieved more than might have been expected, but less than was needed. the lack of agreement among all negotiating parties on concrete objectives and figures for the reduction of co2 emissions is regrettable. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − british conservatives support the broad thrust of this own-initiative report – who could be against energy efficiency? however, we have reservations about certain aspects of the proposal where the rapporteur seems to have lost a sense of proportion. energy efficiency marking is good for enabling consumers to make a choice but to start proscribing particular products merely because they use energy in a way that some do not approve seems excessive. it seems particularly unreasonable to pick on patio heaters (paragraph 16), which have become widespread as a direct consequence of the uk government’s anti-smoking legislation. we trust that this particular suggestion will not be incorporated into any future commission proposal.
in writing. − i fully disapprove of discards – and this is the policy of my party – but i am unable to vote for the imposition of eu decisions, however enlightened they may sometimes appear.
in writing. − i support the general principle of this report as an action plan for energy efficiency. i have no problem with investigating ways of making ‘space heaters’ more efficient, but i am not in favour of banning ‘patio heaters’. as far as i can see, the majority of these are used by publicans to warm smokers that recent legislation has driven out into the cold. already the smoking ban has closed hundreds of public houses with the consequent loss of jobs. such a ban would only multiply closures and job losses.
in writing. − i have voted in support of the report, which is on the whole excellent. however paragraph 16 which ‘urges the commission to establish timetables for the withdrawal from the market of all the least energy-efficient items of equipment, appliances and other energy-using products, such as patio heaters’, would have been better without singling out one particular piece of equipment for a ‘ban’, since it is only one among many that raise concerns over energy wastage and it is one that many people enjoy using, not least in an urban social context like my own london constituency. i welcome moves by some retailers to stop selling such heaters in response to consumer pressure, and i would not buy one myself. but i believe that the best course is to set minimum standards for energy efficiency of appliances, inform people of energy consumption and encourage them to consider their overall carbon footprint and choose their appliances, use of transport, social behaviour etc. accordingly, rather than to ban patio heaters or any other particular item as such. after all – and hopefully – innovation in response to efficiency standards may deliver more efficient patio heaters.
in writing. − the action plan delivers the most cost-effective tools to fight against climate change. indeed, i welcome the plan and feel that the target of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 is feasible both technically and economically. the plan is a step in the right direction and i voted in favour of it, though this should be seen as a first step and more ambitious targets should follow.
in writing. − i support a ban on discards which is in line with my party’s policy on sensible rules for commercial fishing. i am unable to vote for the resolution because it represents more eu interference in uk affairs. the uk is more than able to make its own arrangements for fishing and fishery protection, as we always used to do before joining this wasteful organisation.
in writing. − i support the call for a ban on discards, in line with my party’s policy, but i am unable to vote for the resolution as a whole as it includes the establishment of instruments at eu level. specifically regarding amendment 14, whilst i commend the efforts of scottish fishermen, who have taken a lead in voluntarily reducing the catch of immature fish, i cannot support the implementation of a compensation scheme that is administered by the eu institutions.
in writing. − any bid to improve europe’s fisheries policy is positive for scotland and its fishing industry. the report seeks to research ways of progressively reducing the amount of unwanted by-catches and implementing the banning of discards: two damaging practices that have become far too commonplace in the fisheries sector. with this view, the report proposes a logical and effective approach to information gathering and calls for simple measures that are both easily enforceable and economically viable. my vote was one in favour of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − as an avid viewer of that great tv series ‘deadliest catch’ i am now a great admirer of fishermen and the work they do. i will be voting in favour of this report because we seriously have to address the waste that goes on, with perfectly good fish being thrown back into the sea because of the workings of the complicated quota system. whilst i do not believe that market intervention is the answer here or that quotas should be abandoned, we do need to address seriously this situation. our fish stocks are still low. demand for fish is still growing and therein lies our dilemma. we must preserve our stocks and one way to do this is to eradicate or at least minimise the waste of unwanted by-catches and discards.
in writing. − i was surprised to see that amendment 9 was carried. this amendment means that all fishing vessels would have to have cctv. there is no explanation of how this would be implemented, no impact assessment has been given to show that it works and no means to show how this would be paid for.
in writing. − i support the call for a ban on discards, in line with my party’s policy, but i am unable to vote for the resolution as a whole as it includes the establishment of instruments at eu level. specifically regarding amendment 14, whilst i commend the efforts of scottish fishermen, who have taken a lead in voluntarily reducing the catch of immature fish, i cannot support the implementation of a compensation scheme that is administered by the eu institutions.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues completely and unreservedly condemn all forms of racism and xenophobia and fully support the roma people in their fight against the discrimination which they face. nevertheless, this should occur within the mainstream of political policy within each member state. we are unable to support this resolution because it increases the possibility of isolating and marginalising the roma by ‘pigeon-holing’ them into a separate category and it calls on the commission to come up with various strategies and action plans which should remain the competence of member states.
in writing. − the implementation of a strategy on the roma is something that i am in favour of. i see that the eu urgently needs a strategy to aid in the roma's inclusion in society. they are one of the continent's largest minority groups and deserve to be recognised as so through a european plan to engage with the issues they are faced with.
rapporteur. – mr president, what we are voting on is not the consolidated treaty, but the treaty of lisbon. that was published in the official journal on 17 december 2007. i have it here. we have all had it. admittedly, that is a text that amends the existing treaties, and to work on it you need to look at the amendments contained in the lisbon treaty and also at the original treaties. but that is exactly what we, as elected representatives, are paid to do: to look at the details, and to take the trouble to compare the texts and see what changes have been made. it is true that it would also be helpful to have a consolidated treaty that shows what the treaties will look like when this treaty is ratified – i say ‘when’ it is ratified, because i am sure it will be – and which citizens will find much easier to read. however, almost all our national governments have already published consolidated versions of the treaty in their own language. i have here the english version of the consolidated treaties, as they will look once the lisbon treaty has been adopted. i understand, furthermore, that one of the first governments to publish a consolidated version was the danish government – in danish. so i am sure mr bonde has had no difficulty in finding a consolidated, readable version of the treaties to help him in his work in the committee on constitutional affairs. (applause)
mr president, in the lead-up to the beijing olympics, the focus of the international community is on china’s record for violations of human rights. however, we must not forget that other species, primarily the tigers, are suffering too. their numbers are being devastated due to huge demand – largely from china – for tiger-related products. the cause of their looming extinction is the illegal poaching of tigers in india. even in reserves, keepers have been shot to get at the tigers. these are then illegally transported across the border to china. it is estimated that one tiger is killed every day. at this rate the tiger will be virtually extinct within the next five years. i welcome the news last week that the indian government plans to create eight new reserves to protect their dwindling population of tigers. nevertheless, it will take five years to set up new reserves, and in the last five years the population of tigers has already dropped by over 50%. therefore, unless the european union and international community take urgent action in curbing demand and tackling illegal poaching and trafficking, and changing attitudes in china on tiger-related products, the new reserves will be too little too late. finally, i hope you will support me on tiger protection awareness day. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report is a long catalogue of failure. it graphically illustrates how the amount of fraud, described as ‘irregularities’, is steadily rising and that attempts to deal with it are failing. it openly admits that fraud in 2006 in the areas of own resources – agricultural expenditure and member states’ structural actions – totalled eur 1 143 million. it was eur 922 million in 2003, so in just four years fraud has risen by over eur 200 million. i would remind everyone in this institution that these are not meaningless sums of money, but taxpayers’ money. the eu is funded by its citizens, including hard-pressed taxpayers in the uk. they deserve better than this for their money. governments of all member states should be saying ‘enough’ already, and these appalling figures provide all the more reason why the government of my country should honour its manifesto commitment to give the british people a referendum on the lisbon treaty.
rapporteur. − mr president, i thank the commissioner. i believe this should be a very uncontroversial proposal by the commission. as the commissioner said: enlargement, more member states, new technology, new equipment, computers. we need updated commission legislation to allow good cooperation across internal borders in the union against the bad guys – the organised criminals and so on. i talked to the director of a major anglo-dutch company last week and he says that he finds organised crime is increasing and – i use the word which he used – ‘exponentially’, increasing incredibly fast, and yet the member state governments do nothing about it, because the public does not know the full picture and does not push the governments, so they say, ‘well, don’t worry, everything is okay’. we have a serious problem. so we need this proposal from the commission, and everybody should agree and it should go through. there should be nothing more for me to say, but actually there is a whole story to tell you, mr president, which i would now like to do. to my amazement, my own member state, the uk, threw in a veto in the council of ministers, saying that they would not agree to this. they did not tell me, though i am british, and from the same member state. not a single labour mep from the labour government in london tabled an amendment to anything, but they chose my good conservative friend, christopher heaton-harris, a very honourable man, who is going to speak, to pick up the labour government’s objection and he tabled an amendment, which is slightly weird, but i wish chris good luck; he is entitled to do that. but what was the labour party doing in all this? so, i thought, this is very strange, and there are a lot of other british objections and vetoes and opt-outs going on in lots of different policy areas, so i thought i would investigate what the overall uk policy was on all these directives that they are opting out of, what was going on? i went to olaf, which deals with fraud in the eu, as we know. olaf tells me that the uk refuses to cooperate with it, even though the uk loses billions on vat carousel fraud. london says, ‘if we give olaf a finger, they will take our whole arm, so we are afraid, and we will not cooperate’. this is very weird, so i made further enquiries in london. how does this work? and i am told this is what happens: the commission makes a proposal, then a junior official in the appropriate government department in london has to write a briefing paper to recommend what the government should do about it. he is very careful; he is a bit nervous; he does not know what to do, so he says, ‘we must not do anything about this. i recommend great caution. i do not think we should approve. perhaps we should even opt out’. and his careful paper – because he wants to be promoted and not sacked – goes up the tree in his department, and officials who are busy doing other things say ‘okay’ and tick it. other government departments asked for their opinion do not know either, so they say, ‘it seems okay to us’. it goes finally to a cabinet committee chaired by our foreign secretary – and he has a million other things to think about – and so it gets rubber-stamped. so, suddenly, the government’s position in london is negative, cautious, in favour of an opt-out: ‘we do not understand. we do not really know what is going on’. very strange indeed! so what happens next? well, back to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in the parliament. the blockage in the council has meant that i have attended several informal tripartite conciliations with the council, first of all led by the portuguese, now led by the slovenes, in both cases excellently. and, although no uk official has ever briefed me about anything, and i was therefore the only british person present at the conciliation, even though the british government apparently has a veto situation on this, it went through. finally, the commission and the council have found a form of words which has enabled the british objection to be got round, or overcome, or whatever words you like to use. so the amendments before the parliament, for voting tomorrow, were all approved by the imco committee and i hope very much that parliament will vote for them tomorrow. but what is going on in london, mr president, i just do not understand.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr newton dunn, another honourable member of this institution, for eloquently painting the picture of how eu matters are dealt with – or how he believes they are dealt with – in london. perhaps i can explain what was going on in london and why they came to a conservative member of the european parliament rather than go to a labour mep, or indeed to himself. actually, i think they should have gone to him, and i cannot believe they did not. he might not believe me, but i had more contact with the current presidency-in-office than i did with anybody from london or the british civil service. but perhaps it was just the fact that this young civil servant he described had forgotten to read the newspapers and believed that the general election had been called in october, that my party had won it and that the prime minister had not dithered, and that, therefore, he was dealing with a member of the government party. alas, that is not the case. but i do understand what he says about london being concerned about giving olaf a finger and it taking an arm. this actually goes back to the structure of olaf itself, to the wise men’s paper back in 1999, and the fact that olaf is simply not independent of the commission – something that will be addressed in the future. there were other problems with this particular dossier: the fact that vat was being dragged between pillars, possibly – and we needed to get legal advice on that – and the fact that much of this information is already exchanged electronically. the british government did believe – and i can see from reading between the lines how it came to that conclusion – that it would need a permanent coordination unit and would need to second people to this, therefore having lots of people in a place rather than just exchanging information electronically. however, there is no problem with the amendments. there is no problem with the debate. this should go through very quickly, and i hope it does.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank everybody who spoke in the debate. to the very perceptive comment from ms mcguinness, representing dublin, i would say: when she said this is widespread and should be written down, she probably is aware that there was a very famous tv programme about 15, or even 20, years ago in the uk called yes, minister, in which the minister, who was a bumbling idiot, imagined he was in full control and was eventually promoted to prime minister. but the words ‘yes, minister’ were actually the words of his civil servants, who were telling him what to say and what to do – ‘yes, minister. no, minister. of course, you are all-powerful, minister.’ but it was the civil servants who were in control. this was happening 20 years ago and, clearly, it is still happening today. and it is happening all over europe, which is very interesting. so perhaps we need an updated european programme – ja, herr minister or sí, señor ministro. but perhaps scriptwriters could actually entertain us with a new programme on the same theme, because the old truths remain as true as ever.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank ms fourtou. i am always in awe of her grasp of the detail in this very complex matter. the modernised customs code, as the commissioner has heard me say before, is an amazingly boring but ever so important piece of law from the commission. in 1975, when the united kingdom voted in a referendum that we should actually be having now (a referendum on the lisbon treaty) – a referendum to come into this club – we thought we were voting to come into a free-trade area. what people got was, in fact, a customs union, and since i have been here i have been working hard on this particular report, because getting this customs code right and modernising it correctly is possibly the most important thing we can do until the whole thing is rejuvenated, as the commissioner said, within the system of e-customs, making trade much more easy and duty collection much more simple across the union. however, as with all things european, we do not move forward as quickly as some of us would like – if we move forward at all. there are still barriers that are contained within this text. some are pretty much built-in, until there is a complete wipe-clean of the slate and we start all over. what is an authorised economic operator? what qualification should customs representatives – or aeos, as they are known – have? could these be used in the future as barriers to stop people coming into the business as start-ups, or indeed existing businesses running in europe spreading across the rest of it? this modernised customs code is actually a very good document, on balance, but it could have been very much better as well. alas, we have to compromise in this house a little too often, but i hope that, on balance, this will be good for the continent of europe.
mr president, i would just like to make one comment in response to mr heaton-harris saying that he thought that britain in 1975 was joining a free-trade area. i am very worried about his memory, or perhaps it is his education. britain was leaving a european free-trade area – it was called efta. we chose to leave it to join the european community, and mrs thatcher, who was the conservative leader at the time of the 1975 referendum in the uk, said that it was ‘more than a free-trade area’. very simple, very clear, on the record. now, since mr heaton-harris wants a referendum today on the lisbon treaty in the uk, he is clearly confident that the british public would read all the documents to make up their minds how to vote. and that must have been true in 1975. the british public in 1975 will have read in the documents that this is about an ever closer union and not a free-trade area. the european union is about an ever closer union. so please, mr president, can we get a pill for mr heaton-harris’s memory?
mr president, i represent northern ireland in this house, a region which, as everyone will know, has suffered decades of vicious terrorism. and from that experience, i have two points to make in this debate. firstly, terrorism should never be appeased; it has to be defeated. start treating with terrorism, giving its prisoners special status and, ultimately, early release, and soon you will end up like northern ireland has ended up: with unrepentant terrorists at the heart of our government. appeasement only whets the appetite – the insatiable appetite – of terrorists. the second point i want to make is this: whereas state abuse is wrong, the naive belief, such as i find in this report, that lavishing so-called ‘human rights’ on terrorists will neutralise them will, in fact, only strengthen their cause as they expertly exploit and misuse every such right to their own advantage, while they go on denying their victims the most basic right of them all: the right to life. because of the excesses of their murderous strategy, sometimes the defence of society requires a choice between the uninhibited rights of terrorists and the rights of the innocent. in such circumstances, i have no difficulty in choosing the right of society to defend itself over the supposed human rights of the terrorist. the battle against terrorism is a battle of good against evil, and, if needs be, the right of the terrorist is secondary to that of society.
mr president, i believe that this is a good report and i subscribe almost entirely to the remarks of my chairman and political colleague, mr deprez. but i disagree with him and others on the proper scope of the anti-terrorist laws. i do not believe it is helpful to criminalise glorification of, or apologia for, terrorism. i think the term ‘justification’ is also problematic. as many of us were earlier discussing with dick marty on the subject of terrorist blacklists and asset freezing, the law needs to be both just and effective if it is to remain credible and sustainable and have public support. there is a profound risk that extending the criminal law as proposed, beyond actions and intentions and into the realm of opinion, commentary, and even fantasy, carries the danger of creating thought-crimes. this would have a potentially chilling effect on free speech. if i say i understand that the kurds in turkey have felt anger and disaffection at the suppression of their culture, language and identity and denial of their political aspirations, am i justifying pkk bombs? there is hardly a person in the house – unfortunately, there are maybe a few – who would not glorify nelson mandela. but the anc committed terrorist acts in fighting the utterly repressive apartheid state. there are people, now statesmen, who have been honoured guests in this chamber, who have a past as freedom fighters. so am i just a woolly liberal, concerned only with free speech? no, because the law has to be effective. we already properly criminalise incitement to commit terrorism. and that gives wide scope to target behaviour and speech that has, as its purpose, the instigation of a terrorist offence. last week, the uk’s second highest court, the court of appeal, quashed the convictions of five men for possession of jihadist material precisely because there was no evidence of intention to encourage terrorism. the original convictions in this case created resentment among those – mainly young muslims – who wanted to discuss, debate and criticise the foreign policies of europe and the united states. that does not help combat radicalism. but these cases have also, by their collapse, left the law in a state of confusion and disarray, and that is good for terrorists. let us stick to getting convictions on the basis of incitement. let us not stray into glorification and apologia.
mr president, i would be extremely grateful if anyone who is supporting the amendments to criminalise glorification could be so kind as to try and answer the points that i raised, which are, first of all, that i fear a chilling effect on free speech and, secondly, that i do not know how they can be made operational. what is the connection between glorifying an act of terrorism and another terrorist act being committed? it seems to me that there are legal problems, as was found in the uk court of appeal last week, because there is no direct connection between glorification and a new terrorist act, which there obviously is when there is incitement, or encouragement at least. if you just ‘glorify’ a terrorist act, then what is the straight-line connection between that and another act being committed? if you cannot establish that connection, you risk being undercut in the courts and then end up in a much worse position than before you started. i would be very grateful if anyone who actually supports the criminalisation of glorification or apologia could perhaps educate me, because this is something i do not quite understand.
in writing. – it is ten years since the trade defence instuments were revised. they need modernising to ensure that they remain relevant to the global commercial enivoronment in which eu business operates. open markets benefit everyone and should be our goal, but it is true that trade defence action remains necessary to protect us from unfair trade. however, in deciding what is unfair trade we must also take into account a wider community interest than the present rules allow and we must avoid damage to european countries that set up global supply chains. we must also make sure that the interests of millions of consumers are weighed carefully against the sometimes narrow interests of a few producers. i hope the commission will soon find the political environment suitable for it to bring back proposals for reforming our trade defence instruments.
author. − madam president, i, too, want to commend to members the excellent work that has been carried out by our rapporteurs for the goods package, mr brie, ms schaldemose and mr stubb, who, i think, are all legislative virgins. i think it is the first report they have done in this parliament and, i have to say, they have done a very good job, together with staff. we have to thank the commissioner himself, who has demonstrated commitment and dedication to this issue, and the council and the presidency again, which have made all this happen. i think we have managed to achieve an agreement which will free up circulation of safe products on the internal market, while introducing a tougher regime to detect dangerous goods and prevent them from coming onto the market and obviously maintaining tough rules, which we already have in place for food safety, medical equipment and blood products. with the adoption of this package, business and smes will find it easier, as mr stubb said, to sell their products – common household goods, bicycles, ladders, tanks, containers etc. – while consumers should reap the benefit of a wider choice of high-quality and safe products. but we have said very clearly that free movement of goods must not compromise safety. on the contrary, our rapporteurs have sought to strengthen the safety and enforcement regime with essential requirements in this package, by making it clear that all products placed on the market, including imports from third countries, must comply with the law, whether it is a toy safety directive or the directive on electrical equipment; by making it clear that all economic operators are legally responsible – and, indeed, liable – for placing products on the market and for the accuracy of the information they provide; by strengthening the current ce marking system to help consumer knowledge and confidence in products; and by increasing the coordination and cooperation of the market surveillance authorities, in particular to react faster in emergency cases to detect and withdraw unsafe products. i go back to the example of toys. while i would stress that us toy safety legislation on testing requirements and standards is weaker than the european union’s, and their problems with defective toys were greater, nonetheless the recalls for the same product occurred in july in the us and it took member states until september to take action to withdraw defective toy products from the market in the eu. that is why the changes that have been made by our rapporteurs for swifter action are, indeed, essential. if we are to engender consumer confidence, then we must ensure that there are no loopholes for defective or dangerous products. i think that the message this parliament will give today by voting through these new measures is that we want goods to move freely, we want to increase competition and consumer choice, but we will not compromise on safety and, therefore, we have stepped up enforcement surveillance and given the ce mark the legal protection it deserves, to ensure that importers and manufacturers can be legally prosecuted if they fail in their duty of responsibility to protect the consumer. so, commissioner, i want to thank you for the constructive and intensive work that you have carried out. we welcome the fact that you have now brought forward the new toy safety directive. it is only one of many directives covered by this package of laws that we are putting through today and, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i therefore want to ask you to address some of the key future issues to enhance consumer confidence and to ensure consumer safety and awareness. i have two products here today. one is a toy seal; one is an electric kettle. one has no ce mark and one has a ce mark, so the former is probably not covered by the toy safety directive and the latter, we assume, is covered by the electrical equipment directive. however, consumers are confused. they believe that this also means that this kettle is safe. it does not mean it is safe. it means it conforms to the directive on electrical equipment, and that is why, today, we are putting to you three requests: to examine the concept of a supplementary marking to enhance consumer information on product safety, to carry out an in-depth study in order to clarify the feasibility, the possible benefits and the potential drawbacks for such a marking for all stakeholders, including business and consumers, and to examine the possibilities for reinforcing the credibility of the ce marking through measures for stronger customs control inside and outside the european union, to make sure we end the consumer confusion as regards the ce marking.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − madam president, i was rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy’s opinions on two of the three reports in this package. prior to the vote in our committee we received strong external representations. at first glance these seemed to be reasonable under the pretext of ensuring safety and quality, but they were, in fact, thinly disguised protectionism against competition from imports into the eu. as believers in a free market european union, in, hopefully, a world of free markets, and as believers in the importance of free trade for the development and enrichment of both the european union and of our trading partners, we must be very careful about going willy-nilly down this protectionist line. the committee’s opinion was toned down in this respect, and i am glad to see that, thanks also to efforts in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, most of the excessively protectionist aspects have been mitigated. importers and distributors will still have the right to modify products to suit the eu market, in which case they justifiably become responsible for compliance. on the other hand, i notice they are still required to ensure – i quote, ‘ensure’ – that the products they put on the market without modification are compliant with eu legislation. i consider the word ‘verify’ would be more appropriate than ‘ensure’, and i would be interested in the commissioner’s view whether ‘ensure’, in this context, is consistent with wto stipulations and, in general, with the eu’s commitment to free trade. i am also glad to see that there is no longer a reference to the general product safety directive (gpsd). as i understand it, consumers will continue to be protected against dangerous products via the gpsd, whether or not it is incorporated into this specific legislation. introducing it would just increase unnecessary bureaucratic burdens for the production and assessment of products that are not even aimed at the consumer market. it is also important for european industry that the true meaning and import of the ce marking is understood, and i believe this does take a step forward. but i am glad the commissioner has said he is considering what may be further desirable, so long as whatever is proposed is always practicable for eu industry and for exporters to the eu. in all, i believe the tenor of this report is now acceptable. indeed, i expect even my industry committee colleagues from the socialist and liberal groups will appreciate that this is a reasonably happy and acceptable outcome. when implemented, we on the industry committee look forward to the effective completion of the single market in goods with high and effective consumer protection standards. this is a major achievement for the european union, with almost unimaginable economic benefits for our constituents.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, my colleague, mr stubb, did let slip that it was my birthday today, so i want to thank all the rapporteurs and all members, because, as an unashamed enthusiast for the single market and its future, what could be a better birthday present than the approval of this package today? so, we are unwrapping it today, and i thank you for that opportunity – we are unwrapping it from the point of view of consumers and citizens. my colleagues have paid tribute to everyone involved, and i do not want to take up a lot of time repeating that. however, i want to thank the president-in-office, in particular, for being here today. that is a clear sign of the importance that the presidency attaches to this. i also want to thank him for his very strong engagement with the work of this committee in parliament – it has been very much appreciated. similarly, this package has resulted from a huge amount of effort by the commission. i also want to pay personal tribute to michel ayral, with whom i have worked not just on this but on many other dossiers. he was also a big enthusiast of the whole better regulation project, which is really part of this as well. this is very much a scene-setter, in a way, for our debate on the lisbon strategy this afternoon, because nothing could be more important to the strategy for jobs and growth than to have a really effectively functioning and competitive internal single market. we want competitive companies and confident consumers, in order to sustain the level of jobs and economic growth in europe, and that will be achieved by having a really effective single market. we want, as far as products are concerned, regulations that are very clear for businesses, whereby their teams who work on products can get on with the job of producing brilliant designs and high-quality and safe products. let us not forget that the vast majority of companies have people with that in mind and they are deeply frustrated by the fact that, in many cases, they have to redesign products or reapply for mutual recognition as it stands at the moment – that is a major step forward. however, consumers are entitled to expect those quality products and expect us to have the testing procedures to ensure that the products on the market have been through those sorts of approval procedures. i just want to make a comment in line with what my colleague mr purvis was saying, particularly in response to mr liese, who is not here: there are many, many companies now which are achieving brilliant standards of design and quality, but are working with chinese or other suppliers. i just mention to you in the context of my birthday – because one is thinking about nice things – that i recently went to a company that makes well-known brands of model trains: fleischmann and rivarossi, which my colleagues from germany and italy will know about. they are wonderful, high-quality model trains. products under those brand names are actually designed in england but made in china, and anybody who doubts that china can produce good-quality products should visit their local model train shop at the weekend and, maybe, like me, buy a present for their grandson.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i think i can be forgiven for thinking i had stumbled across a hollywood oscar nomination ceremony a little bit earlier on: everybody congratulating each other, slapping each other on the back, absolutely marvellous! mr stubb managed to thank just about everybody, but i think he forgot his grandmother. yes, mr stubb, you missed out your grandmother! well, interesting, is it not? we harmonise, we homogenise, we regulate, we legislate. it is as though this institution somehow has a manic desire to prove its worth by sheer activity: good, bad, indifferent. we must be seen to be busy. the assumption here is that the european citizen is some sort of backward child, and we are the well-meaning but authoritative parents: we know all and we control all. yet we do not, do we? the level of commercial experience in this chamber is pitiful. political placemen, journeymen, with no real understanding of the outside world at all, manically producing flawed and dangerous legislation, while we greedily suck at the public teat with our ludicrous posturing. the emerging countries such as india and china, who take over our manufacturing production even as i speak, must stare in wonder at us. world competition in trade is not unlike a football match. they watch us line up on the field, the whistle blows, and we assiduously start to kick the ball into our own goal. how they must laugh behind our backs. not that this chamber has any legitimacy left as the new constitution is railroaded through, against the will of the people. but their day will come, and it will be into the courtyard for all of us to the rattle of rifle bolts, and we will have richly deserved it.
on that very harmonious note, the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, i would like to make an unreserved apology to the president of the european parliament, to colleagues and to the house for any offence given by the remarks i made on 31 january when opposing the new powers granted to the president over the rules of procedure. i realise that the reference i made offended many in this house. i hope you will accept this apology in the spirit in which it is made. (applause)
mr president, i think we need to recognise, when we are talking about regions trading with each other, that it is not countries that trade with each other, but people and businesses that trade with each other. one of the errors of this particular report was that it failed to recognise the substantial trade barriers that stand in the way of entrepreneurs who wish to trade with the eu from third countries. that is why i am pleased to announce a cross-party campaign, involving ngos and civil society organisations, as well as grass-roots campaigners, called the real trade campaign, which has five main aims: to abolish agricultural tariffs on imports; to abolish agricultural subsidies; to liberalise the rules of country of origin; to put more emphasis on aid for trade; and to encourage low income countries progressively to lower their trade barriers to each other in the hope that they will be part of the world community when it comes to trade and, eventually, trade more with us. this report was unbalanced in not recognising that those barriers exist from the eu perspective, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − i welcome the report on exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents. the possible consequences which the transposition of the 2004 directive, outlining minimum safety standards for those using physical agents, could have on the development and use of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in medicine make the recommendations of the report sound and logical. with the emergence of new studies calling into question the basis on which the directive’s recommendations are based, we must allow time for this new information and the directive to be analysed. i therefore support the call to postpone the deadline of 30 april 2008 by four years, and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of my own group's amendments on the pomés ruiz report, which were all adopted. it is important that the membership of commission expert groups is fairly balanced and that the process for selecting such groups is fully open and transparent. it is to be hoped that the commission takes heed of today's call from this institution.
in writing. − i welcome the report on transparency in financial matters. any move to improve the quality and availability of information, especially on agricultural policy and structural funds (which has proved difficult for the public to obtain), is a positive step towards the eu assuming its democratic obligations.
in writing. − i supported the musotto report on the fight against fraud. misspending and mismanagement of community money is something which regularly features in the press and media across the eu. it is essential that fraud is tackled effectively and in this regard the member states have a huge roll to play alongside the various eu bodies.
in writing. − i will be supporting mr deprez’s report on the factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists. nevertheless, i want to make two points. first, i want to raise the ‘nelson mandela’ question. we must distinguish between those fighting oppression and vicious authoritarian regimes like the apartheid regime in south africa, and the nihilism of the 9/11 bombers. i would not have supported the rivonia bombing, but neither would i, if nelson mandela had fled to europe, have supported his extradition to a south africa where he faced the death penalty. second, the west has to recognise that on occasion our actions or inaction in the middle east, in palestine and elsewhere contributes to rising hostility and terrorism towards ourselves. sometimes we can be our own worst enemies.
in writing. − i supported today's amendments stating that radicalisation should only be seen in terms of a clear link to violence and that civil liberties should be of paramount importance. the latter should not need repeating – we describe ourselves as a union based on human rights and civil liberties. indeed, the majority of the proposals in this report are already eu policy, which makes me wonder why we need yet another report. i voted against the final report, not because i support the ppe position or the narrow spanish domestic debate which so frequently poisons our discussions on tackling terrorism in this house, but because we have decided to consider the inclusion of the justification of terrorism in our anti-terrorism package. this may seem a small thing but we already know academic freedom, political debate and anti-radicalisation work are being limited by fears engendered by such legislation. young muslims have told me that they are frightened to discuss issues such palestine or iraq in case their criticism and explanation of how they feel are interpreted as justification or glorification and they end up in court. parliament could have voted this paragraph out but chose not to.
in writing. − this report sought to outline a set of european norms and principles in the fight against terrorism. the opposition from the right to the report means that aid to victims, making the support of terrorist activity a criminal offence in all member states and encouraging the need for political dialogue, will not form part of a coherent european anti-terrorism strategy. i voted in favour of the report and regret that agreement on what one would feel are issues that normally benefit from wide consensus was not achieved.
in writing. − the left in the parliament diluted a key, undeniable message in the original text of this report, which had stated that ‘terrorism (in particular jihadist terrorism) is today the most severe threat to the security of the citizens of the union’. the report completely omits any reference to the largest factors favouring the recruitment of terrorists, namely uncontrolled immigration and, certainly in regard to the uk, the widespread lack of regard for the christian religion and positive understanding of our own history and culture. not surprisingly, newcomers then see little with which to identify. it makes no mention of the way in which terrorism can be seen to succeed and the legitimisation and reward of terrorists such as the former leaders of the provisional ira. i therefore voted against the report and contributed to its rejection by parliament.
in writing. − i welcome the guardans cambó report on the eu’s strategy to deliver market access for european companies. the principles of improved mutual access, better support for smes and enhanced internal market access should help to bolster the lisbon agenda. in particular i support the amendments on making a distinction between access to developed markets and emerging economies on one hand and ldcs and developing countries on the other.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when parliament first convened this series of debates on the future of europe, few could foresee a treaty in force by 2009. europe was sinking, and to paraphrase mr reinfeldt’s countryman, august strindberg, ‘there was something unnatural in it, for nature demands progress, evolution, and every backward step means wasted energy.’ well, since then, the european union has found the collective energy to set europe back on the path to progress. by the time the prime minister’s country takes over the reins in 2009, the eu will have undergone a democratic revolution: it will be more open, more accountable, more responsive to its citizens. so those who attack the eu for being undemocratic are barking mad to oppose a treaty which puts citizens and their representatives in the driving seat. they are also barking up the wrong tree when they bring their protest to this parliament, which has no responsibility for decisions by national governments on whether to hold a referendum. the prime minister, with his record as a consensus-builder in his own country, looks an ideal candidate to launch the european union under a new council, a new parliament and a new commission. but will he, in fact, be taking over the reins – as have presidencies in the past – or will he be simply a chef de cabinet to the full-time president of the council? the truth is that the treaty provides a framework for a future we have yet to sketch, a future where the biggest single challenge for our union, as sweden’s europe minister says, is delivering the practical results which citizens rightly demand and not the interminable naval gazing, which a conseil des sages will simply prolong. survey after survey shows that the euro-sceptics are wrong. citizens do not want less europe. they want more: more joint action on terrorism, more joint action on energy and the environment, on defence and foreign affairs, on migration, on research and development. they want europe to think big. and, yet, in almost all these areas, cooperation is in its infancy, because member state governments in national capitals persist in gainsaying the public will. we have 10 months left before the treaty enters into force. it is time for us to get our house in order, for this house to prepare for the greatest increase in powers it has ever seen and for the council and the commission to ‘lisbonise’ both legislative proposals in the pipeline and current practices which must change. urgent challenges lie ahead, as the prime minister alluded to. they will not be met without loyal cooperation between the institutions of government. my plea to the prime minister is to make sure that, by the time we have codecision in almost 80 policy areas and a huge increase in the workload of this house and in the council, we have greater dialogue between parliament and the council to allow us to manage the union properly: when it comes to dealing with the biggest foreign policy challenge for the union now – the issue of kosovo; when it comes to dealing with the question of turkey, on which i agree so much with what the prime minister said; when it comes to dealing with big challenges, like world population growth, poverty and migration, of which he spoke. the prime minister outlined the challenges of globalisation, both at our immediate borders and beyond, challenges to which eu cooperation has the answers. previous prime ministers have done the same in this chamber, though without achieving such cooperation, so i commend to you a swedish saying: gott lära av andras fel, eftersom man inte hinner begå alla själv – it is well to learn from the errors of others, since there is no time to make them yourself. (applause)
mr president, i am delighted to welcome the prime minister today. his historic win in the swedish general election was a personal triumph. i also congratulate him on uniting the centre right and breaking the social-democrat dominance, and wish him and his government well. today, we are discussing the future of europe in a week in which this house will vote on a report endorsing the lisbon treaty. i want to make very clear that british conservative meps will vote against that report because we fundamentally disagree with the treaty, with the process by which it was agreed and with the fact that it is simply a carbon copy of the constitution rejected by two of the union’s founding member states in national referendums. this treaty takes europe in the wrong direction. it transfers substantial new powers to the eu, some of them in extremely sensitive areas of national interest. my party has a different vision for the future of europe, which is for a europe that is both more open, dynamic and transparent and less centralised, uniform and inflexible. the british parliament is currently deliberating the treaty. the people of the united kingdom had, of course, hoped to have their say in a referendum. but the british government has shamefully reneged on its manifesto pledge to hold one. my party, both here and in the uk, will continue to campaign vigorously for the people to have their say in a referendum. without widespread public support the european union will lack popular legitimacy for what it is doing. it needs to move on from its obsession with institutions. to be fit for the 21st century, the eu needs to focus on issues like the environment, economic competitiveness and global poverty, in order to demonstrate it is worthy of public support. these are the things that the future of europe should be about.
mr president, for more than nine years, i have had the great privilege of representing scotland here in this parliament, during which time we have had many a debate on the future shape of europe and we have welcomed 12 new member states to the top table. this massive expansion of the internal market and other areas of cooperation is good for scotland and good for europe as a whole. but, also in the past nine years, we have had to agonise over so-called crises, such as the resignation of the santer commission and the rejection of the constitutional treaty. it is a great pity and a frustration that many of the positives which eu membership entails have been tempered by such self-inflicted negatives. in scotland, we move on too. we have a new government – an snp government, which is pro-european and which has a vision for a new future for scotland in europe. prime minister, i want to see scottish ministers sitting alongside your ministers in the council, not in the second row. scotland has much to contribute to the european union and its development: a constructive attitude and a wealth of energy resources to name but two. i look forward to a day when scotland is welcomed as an independent member state of this union. such a change, i think, would not just be good for scotland but good for the future of europe too.
mr president, mr chichester briefly appeared to make a short speech and disappeared before hearing the reply. there was not otherwise a single member of the british conservative party in this debate to hear a conservative prime minister tell us about the future of europe. why is this? did they not want to hear from a fellow conservative how good the lisbon treaty is? how it does not need a referendum because it does not involve any further transfers of sovereignty? how we need this new treaty for our union to work better? are they unable to participate even in a debate on that? did they rather stay outside, presumably in the bar with their colleagues from the uk independence party? i do think it is a shame they have not even been here to participate in such an excellent debate. (applause)
madam president, it really does no good to keep talking about the lisbon agenda, because every year for the past eight years it has been universally acknowledged that it has not worked very well. this report, with its huge list of what the european union should do, completely misses the point. rather than the eu being the force that drives growth and productivity, it is the eu, with its endless interference in business, that is holding back the economies of europe. another point which is ignored is that the different economies of the eu have vastly different structures and performances. it makes no sense to talk about the european economy as a single entity. contrast germany, which has been enjoying some modest economic growth, with the southern eu countries variously afflicted with huge trade deficits, collapsing housing booms and enormous government debts. what these countries desperately need is lower interest rates and devaluation, which cannot be delivered because they are all in the euro area. if the european central bank reduces interest rates to provide some assistance, it will have to ignore its inflation target, which would certainly not please the germans. surely, rather than continuing to add millions more words to the sterile discussion of the lisbon strategy, some attention should have been paid to these rather more pressing issues. but i suppose that would highlight the fundamental weakness of economic and monetary union, which is that a single currency is not a sustainable long-term arrangement for a group of widely differing economies with independent governments.
madam president, i have been participating in debates in this house since the original lisbon strategy and i am also part of the lisbon coordination group in this parliament. one of the things i have been consistently calling for is for the commission to sharpen its focus on the lisbon strategy and set out a clearly defined list of priorities. i do not think anybody has mentioned this so far or complimented the commission on actually doing this. we now have a community lisbon programme with 10 priority actions. i have to say, somewhat to my regret, that, as a member of the group, i think parliament’s resolution has gone in entirely the other direction. this resolution before us today seems to me to be rather more long-winded and ambiguous than previous ones. i suspect the commission will be disappointed, because i note in the community lisbon strategy with its 10 priorities, which i am sure all of you have read, that one of the top demands from the commission is as follows: ‘it is essential that the european parliament, the council and the european commission agree on the strategic reform objectives and actions’. i certainly agree with that. i hope that the commission can extract that from this resolution, because i believe most of it is in there. nevertheless, i think that one of the lessons for our work with the commission is that, for our next work on this strategy, we have to focus on these priority actions, because i am pleased to see that the commission is going to work on these, keep them stable and move them forward. part of the problem we have is that we get piles of papers – different communications on different aspects of the strategies and revised priorities. this set of revisions, this set of 10 priorities, is different from the ones we had last year. frankly, that is no way to move forward. last week, i participated as a rapporteur in the meeting with national parliaments. i just want to echo what many colleagues have said: the action on lisbon is shifting from here to the chambers of national parliaments, because that is where we need to engage them on delivering these 10 priority objectives, and that is something we need to reflect on as well. i particularly welcome the minister’s attendance here to show the importance the council attaches to it.
mr president, there are 59 paragraphs in this resolution and therefore many messages. i particularly draw attention to paragraphs 20 and 21 about the importance of small businesses, paragraphs 29 and 30 about competitiveness and the importance of the single market, and paragraphs 42 and 43 about the need to drive labour market reform. in this context, i would particularly highlight the importance of flexibility, not just for employers but also for employees, a concept that the left consistently fails to understand, hence some of their typically outdated comments today. but i would invite the commission and the council to stand back from the detail of this document and look it as a whole. in particular, i invite them to compare it to other resolutions that parliament has approved in the past, prior to earlier spring councils. then, hopefully, one single message may emerge, namely this: that in many respects, though sadly not all, this resolution is so much more robust than any of its predecessors. it confirms the way in which parliament wishes the lisbon strategy to be pursued; indeed it strongly reinforces it. as a resolution, this one is, literally, very resolute. i therefore urge the commission and the council to be equally resolute in their response and to put timidity aside, so that the next time parliament produces a resolution on this subject, instead of meps saying with even greater vigour what still needs to be done, we could be in a position to congratulate all stakeholders on the real and measurable progress that will have been delivered. that is the challenge and that is the central message we are going to give you in our vote tomorrow.
i have received two motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 february 2008. (the sitting was suspended at 20.00 and resumed at 21.00) written statements (rule 142)
thank you, commissioner, for that very comprehensive answer. i would also like to thank you for your recent work in my constituency in london in sorting out our own structural fund problems. can i take you deeper into the question of identifying whether ethnic minorities are actually being targeted properly? in december the european council specifically asked you and the commission to look deeper into this issue. do you feel, aside from the comprehensive answer you have given me, that there is some scope for identifying whether the roma and other groups are in fact being targeted well, or whether money is being filtered in other places? is there scope for you to go further on this issue?
very briefly, commissioner, because i know we are up against the clock: if the scottish authorities were to come to you and suggest a lower threshold, would that be possible, and would you look at it sympathetically?
madam president, a partnership between the eu and central asia is long overdue, and i congratulate mr özdemir on his report. this vast and strategically vital region is being pulled three ways: by china, by russia and by europe. it is essential that we do all we can to ensure that central asia’s rational choice is partnership with the european union. turkmenistan’s gradual emergence from isolation provides the eu with a crucial window of opportunity. ensuring regular, reliable supplies of ample turkmen hydrocarbon resources will diminish europe’s current overdependence on russia. this will require a new trans-caspian pipeline to link up with the nabucco project. uzbekistan, which was rightfully ostracised following the andijan massacre, has begun to engage in dialogue on human rights with the eu. this is a considerable step forward. clearly there is much progress still to be made before uzbekistan can be considered a properly democratic country. however, uzbekistan is a vital ally in the war on international terrorism, especially with regard to afghanistan. for the eu, kazakhstan should be considered the jewel in the crown of central asia. the country’s vast oil, gas and mineral resources, including uranium, are an obvious attraction. although kazakhstan is not a western liberal democracy in our tradition, it is making considerable progress as a multi-religious, secular, muslim-majority country. given the fact that only 17 years ago it was a republic of the soviet union, kazakhstan’s presidency of the osce in 2010 will further consolidate the momentum towards greater political freedom and human rights in that country. as rapporteur of the eastern dimension of the enp, i once suggested that kazakhstan might one day become a member of the enp. i believe that something rather like this arrangement, one day, will come to pass.
madam president, this report expresses concern that the new kyrgyz constitution, voted on in a referendum in october 2007 without wide-ranging debate, could alter the balance of power. the kyrgyz constitution was amended in a controversial referendum in 1996, and in 2003 there was another referendum which approved further constitutional change. the report goes on to deprecate, in the central asian republics, the ‘anxiety to maintain internal control’, which ‘is a given in regimes which show little interest in seeking popular consent on which to base their rule’. hang on a moment, who are we talking about here? constitutional change that will ‘alter the balance of power’. ‘anxiety to maintain internal control’, with ‘little interest in seeking popular consent’ on which to base the rule of a political elite. this sounds like an extract from a uk independence party report on the european constitution – sorry, i mean the lisbon treaty. i doubt that the five central asian republics are models of democracy and the rule of law, but at least when the politicians of kyrgyzstan wanted to change the constitution, they had the decency to ask the people for their approval in a referendum. that is something the european union has had neither the decency nor the courage to do of the european people.
rapporteur. − mr president, mr méndez de vigo and i have the honour to present this report to parliament on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs. it is a report in which our committee has dwelt not so much on the history of how we got here, but on the simple comparison of whether this new treaty improves the european union compared to the current treaties, whether the treaties as amended by the treaty of lisbon make the european union more effective, more democratic and better for its citizens. that is what we have done, and our conclusion is clear. firstly, on democratic accountability: this union will have a system whereby any legislation in the future will be subject to the prior scrutiny of national parliaments and then the double approval of the council of ministers, composed of ministers accountable to those very same national parliaments, and the european parliament, directly elected by citizens to represent them at european level. that is a level of scrutiny that exists in no other international structure. you can look at the wto, the world bank, the imf, nato – nothing above the level of the nation state has that in-built degree of parliamentary scrutiny that we will have with this new treaty. the new treaty also improves the powers of the european parliament in other respects. we will elect the president of the commission and we will have full power over the whole of the european budget, together with the council, no longer seeing agricultural expenditure ring-fenced from parliamentary scrutiny. parliament will have the right to block commission implementing measures where we disagree with them. parliament will have the right to repeal the delegation of powers to the commission if we feel that is necessary. i see the commissioner is already looking worried, but it is an important democratic safeguard. parliament will also have the right to make proposals for future revisions of the treaty, and its right to ratify, to approve international agreements has been extended. this treaty, if nothing else, is a massive increase in democracy in the european union. secondly, this treaty improves the situation for citizens of the union. there is, of course, the charter of rights, which, throughout the union, is a guarantee that union institutions and union law cannot violate basic standards of human rights – european institutions will have to respect them. it provides greater clarity for citizens over the competences of the european union. it also provides adequate guarantees to allay the misplaced fears of some that we are developing some kind of centralised superstate in the european union. finally, the treaty will make the european union more effective, more capable of delivering in those policy areas where we want to act together at european level. the extension of qualified majority voting, the rationalisation of the size of the commission, the merging together of the external representation posts into a single high representative, the longer-term presidency of the european council and other measures should make our machinery more capable of acting effectively and, therefore, our union more capable of delivering in those policy areas where we want it to deliver. so all these are dramatic improvements. there are some, of course, who will bemoan the loss of the constitution – a constitution that was, after all, ratified by a large majority of the member states. even in those countries that had referendums, in total 26.6 million people voted in favour of it and 23 million against. even in my country, it was approved at second reading in the house of commons by a large majority of 215. so it was a popular constitution in most respects, but the test is to win the grand slam of 27 ‘yeses’ and zero ‘nos’. that is the very high threshold that it faced. it did not get through that. that was why it was abandoned by the member states and, instead, we have reverted to amending the treaties that we had before. however, the content of these amendments makes our union more democratic, more effective and friendlier to citizens. i commend it to the house. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, one of the strongest features of the treaty will be that it marks the coming of age of the common foreign security and defence policy. it proposes radical changes to the structure of the eu, notably by upgrading the high representative as vice-president of the commission and a chair of the council, with a tripartite service of diplomats beneath him. it is crucial that these arrangements are firmly in place as soon as the treaty comes into force: delay and quarrelling for the spoils of victory will confuse third countries and cause cynicism within european public opinion. i strongly commend the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs to parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the world awaits a european union with a stronger capacity to act across the world stage. inside the union there are plenty of people who wish to see an end to the seemingly interminable quarrels about our system of government. although i have enjoyed myself in the igc and previously in the convention, i think i can speak for us all in saying that we share the opinion that we should settle some of these quarrelsome problems for a substantial time. certainly, i look forward to a time when we can focus on improving the quality of policy which flows out of brussels and strasbourg. that time will come when the treaty of lisbon is brought into force, because it successfully connects policy change with desirable and necessary reforms to powers, to instruments and to procedures. there are some – certainly in this chamber – who would prefer to reject the treaty and turn the clock back to nice, and perhaps even further to 19th-century thinking. these people include, unfortunately, the british conservative party, which fails to proffer a shared european solution to the common problems that we all face as europeans. i know that the united kingdom is a strangely insular place, and it is true that even its government is too frightened to face up to nationalists and xenophobes and has insisted on asserting self-defeating opt-outs from key areas of european unity, sometimes pushing britain to the margins. liberal democrats regret that, and look forward to the time when the uk will find a more comfortable place within the stronger and more united democratic and efficient union promised by this great treaty. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, what the european parliament is engaged in here today, with this debate and subsequent vote, is nothing less than a massive exercise in deceit. a pack of lies is being told because you do not want the peoples of europe to have the referendums that you promised them. this represents an imposition of the will of the political class upon the citizens. we all know the truth, which is that the lisbon treaty is the same as the eu constitution – with exactly the same number of new competences and exactly the same number of surrenders of veto. it is virtually identical in every regard and it is a constitutional treaty, because it gives the european union full legal personality, and, worse still, gives it the ability to amend itself in the future without having to refer to any more intergovernmental conferences. it gives the eu the ability to legislate over literally every single aspect of our lives. i am told, though, that i should not worry, because the flag and the anthem have been dropped. well, pull the other one! there is a great big flag in front of us here. it is nonsense. it is all part of the lie. the truth is that you are too chicken to have a referendum. you do not want to hear the voice of the people, and now you are resorting to totalitarian means to get this treaty through. we heard mr cohn-bendit say that those who oppose this treaty are mentally ill. we heard mr schulz say that those of us who objected to the sheer dishonesty of this project were behaving like nazis back in the 1930s. well, i think the ordinary decent citizens of europe will work out for themselves who the extremists are. i must say that i wish the people of ireland, and those who believe in democracy, every success in a couple of months’ time. i hope they send out a large resounding ‘no’, and i hope the voice of the peoples of europe will be heard, and not just your voice, the voice of the political class. you may be complacent today, but you are increasingly being held in contempt.
mr president, i reject this report and i reject the treaty that it supports. before the french and dutch referendums, we heard much empty talk in this house about the will of the people. why? because, in their arrogance, the eu political elite believed that the people would be conned by their propaganda about the constitution. suddenly, when the people caught on, they ran with their tail between their legs and have been running ever since, petrified that the voters would reject them again. that is why the key focus of the last three years has been on hatching an intergovernmental conspiracy to foist this constitution on the peoples of europe without daring to ask them their opinion. such arrogance, such tyranny: fitting, of course, because this constitution is all about transferring more and more national powers to brussels despots – those who are, indeed, too chicken for a referendum.
mr president, i fully accept that it is necessary, in a european union of 27 member states, to update the working rules and arrangements which operated in a union of 15 and less. i also accept that much of the content of the lisbon treaty, such as the increase in powers of this parliament and the opening-up of council decision-making, is positive and sensible. however, looking at the detail from my viewpoint as a representative of scotland, i have serious concerns about some of the imperfections, as commissioner wallström acknowledged. firstly, much is made of the new right of national parliaments to intervene, but this of course does not apply to the devolved, national parliament of scotland or indeed to other stateless nations. secondly, the treaty process failed to address the issue of a single seat for the european parliament, leaving us with the indefensible situation of trekking between brussels and strasbourg. thirdly, i cannot support the inclusion of the common fisheries policy (cfp) as one of only four exclusive competences of the union listed in the treaty. this, i fear, could seriously impede progress towards radical reform and change in fisheries management, by preserving the over-centralised failure which the cfp has become. this is particularly incongruous at a time when the council, last december, took a tentative step towards decentralisation, when it recognised the voluntary measures being implemented by scotland and gave it an element of local control this year. my party favoured a referendum on the constitution. this treaty may be different in legal status, but in substance it is the same. therefore, the snp is simply being consistent by supporting a referendum on this treaty. we are not afraid of a public debate on europe. on the contrary, forging a new relationship between scotland and the eu is central to our vision. i want to see scotland joining the family of european nations and playing a constructive part in decision-making as a member state, not as an observer from the sidelines.
mr president, this report, in endorsing the lisbon treaty, clearly states that this is a substantial improvement on the existing treaties, argues that it is desirable that the treaty of lisbon be ratified by all member states by the end of the current year, and claims that it will provide a stable framework, allowing further development of the union in future. i have to say that, as a british conservative, i sadly cannot agree with all that, but i do so in a friendly way and not from an extreme or nihilist stance, as others seem to argue from. from the start, i have made it clear that this treaty or constitution is not the best way forward for europe at this time. conservatives support a europe of independent states working closely together to meet the challenges of globalisation, global poverty and global warming, as has already been stated by others. these are the priorities, and it must be done in a cooperative fashion. indeed my colleague, the uk shadow foreign secretary, william hague, said in a debate in london: ‘conservatives are the strongest advocates of a european union where nations work together in a way that strengthens our economies, empowers our consumers and turns our common values into effective action on the great issues facing our world today.’ i do not believe that what we have before us will help us particularly in that great challenge. our eloquent rapporteurs who quote shakespeare in their advocacy of haste, should, i think, also note king john, act v, scene ii, where a supplicant said, ‘according to the fair play of the world, let me have audience’. well, perhaps, in the uk, the prime minister should note that, and he should then allow his citizens to have their say on this undoubtedly vital matter.
mr president, i would question why, if the lisbon treaty is such a good thing, it is so inaccessible. is it because member states are turned from the theoretical masters of the eu into its servants? is it because it makes law, rather than a framework for law-making? is it because it offers no checks and balances to control future law-makers? is it because it consolidates power in a self-perpetuating bureaucracy? like the last treaty, this one gives the eu a permanent right to seize more powers without any future agreements – an outrageous power grab. such undemocratic powers are illegal in the united kingdom, because no british parliament can bind its successors. mrs wallström said the word ‘constitution’ was being dropped to avoid trouble with the brits – too right! we should leave, taking our eur 2 million an hour with us, and we would all be better off.
mr president, can i first of all respond to our good colleague mr barón crespo, who said that we could not allow the will of a small minority to stand in the way of the european project. in my country, opinion polls show that some 75% of the british people want a referendum and two thirds of them would vote ‘no’. if that is what mr barón crespo thinks is a small minority, all i can say is that it is not my view of a small minority. as a number of colleagues have pointed out, we are actually voting on something that we cannot read. we have no consolidated text. it is an absolute scandal! many people on the other side of the house are telling us that this is a good thing. i have heard again and again what a good thing it is. if it is so good, then why not go out in the streets and argue it in front of the people in a referendum? why are you running scared? today, the european project is abandoning any claim to democratic legitimacy. today, we will vote through the renamed constitution in an act that shows monstrous contempt for european citizens and democratic values. in 2005, the voters of france and holland decisively rejected the constitution. i am astonished by the bare-faced effrontery of european leaders, who have changed the packaging but are now bringing back the substance in defiance of public opinion. most french and dutch meps will support this report. i do not know how they will face their voters. i do not know how they will sleep at night. in the uk, the labour government has broken its solemn promise of a referendum, yet in postal polls conducted by campaign groups, more than 80% of voters vote ‘yes’ to a referendum. by forcing this measure through in the teeth of public opposition, you are hacking at the very foundations of the europe you are seeking to build. we must listen to the people. they demand a referendum.
mr president, i would like to ask those colleagues who oppose the treaty to explain precisely what is they mean when they speak about a ‘self-amending’ treaty. could they bring me the clause that provides for this sort of protean development? i do not see it in the treaty myself. the fact is that a single change requires the unanimous agreement of all the prime ministers and national parliaments of all the member states, and important changes that confer fresh competences upon us in the eu require the procedure of a convention, an intergovernmental conference and formal ratification in all member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, this debate has shown that, in this parliament, the elected representatives of the peoples of our 27 countries approve this treaty by a very large majority. every single party that is in government in our member states and almost every single one of the principal opposition parties in every member state – except the british conservatives, of course – support this treaty. all the main christian democrat parties support it. it is supported by all the socialist parties in each of our countries. it is supported by the liberal democrat parties in each of our countries, the majority of the green parties and even the conservative parties, except, of course, the british conservatives. opposition to this treaty is mainly from the far right and some on the extreme left of this house. it is, though, curious to see this new political alliance being forged by sinn féin and the british conservative party in opposing this treaty. some of those have argued here today that this treaty is being adopted without us having access to the documents – that no consolidated treaty has been published. but, as i pointed out yesterday, several member states have published a consolidated version of the treaty. then they complain, like mr bonde, that this does not show the amendments to the treaty, but the amendments have, of course, been available since december in every language in the official journal. frankly, any member of the european parliament who says he or she has not been able to read this text is not doing the job which they have been paid to do. it is pure laziness. secondly, some of them have come here and said that the european parliament should call for a referendum. i find it quite amusing that those who oppose the european parliament having powers, that are against the european union being able to tell member states what to do, come here and say that we should tell sovereign member states what their internal procedures should be to ratify an international treaty. that is hypocrisy in the extreme. finally, i notice that many of them were absent from the debate for long periods, because they were outside the chamber dressed as chickens. i think that is very symbolic. they are chicken, because they chickened out of the debate here, as they are afraid of the verdict of this democratic debate, a verdict which is overwhelmingly positive about this treaty: that it is a good treaty that will improve and democratise our union. (applause)
i scríbhinn. – nuair a chuirimid gach rud sa mheá caithfimid a rá go raibh an ae go maith d'éirinn. ach ní hé ábhar an reifrinn seo cé acu an raibh an ae go maith d'éirinn nó nach raibh – is faoi chonradh liospóin atá sé. tugann conradh liospóin inniúlacht eisiach maidir le beartas tráchtála d'institiúidí an ae agus idirbheartaíocht comhaontuithe tráchtála idirnáisiúnta san áireamh. tugann sé cumhacht don choimisiún tús a chur le hidirbheartaíocht agus an idirbheartaíocht sin a stiúradh, idirbheartaíocht comhaontuithe tráchtála idirnáisiúnta san áireamh, sula ndéantar tuairisciú chuig comhairle na nairí. tugann airteagal 10(a) sainordú do “shrianta ar an trádáil idirnáisiúnta a dhíothú de réir a chéile” agus is treoirphrionsabal dó é agus é ag idirghníomhú le stáit nach ballstáit den ae iad. ó dheireadh fómhair 2006 thug an ae agus é ag iarraidh tabhairt ar thíortha i mbéal forbartha ‘bacainní thar theorainneacha amach’ a thabhairt ar shiúl, bacainní amhail rialacháin chomhshaoil, rialacháin chosanta tomhaltóirí agus rialacháin sláinte, beag beann ar na hiarmhairtí a bhaineann leis na rialúcháin úd a thabhairt ar shiúl. agus an dá ghné le chéile tugann sé seo comhartha shuntasach faoin gcéim siar i gcur chuige an ae dul i ngleic leis an mbochtaineacht dhomhanda agus leis an neamhionannas.
rapporteur. − mr president, i just wish to clarify that this amendment should be addressed, as on our voting list, to paragraph 2(c), which is where it actually fits in properly in the text, instead of paragraph 5(e).
mr president, i voted against the report because, once again, the political elite of the european union is trying to ram through the constitutional treaty without consulting the peoples of europe. the british government promised a referendum on this treaty, yet now it is pretending that it is somehow different. you only have to listen to leader after leader, such as valéry giscard d’estaing, to realise that there is actually no difference. i say to you, the european political elite, that if you think you are building a european project but are building a european project without the will of the people, then you are in fact building a castle made of sand. as the late, great jimi hendrix once said, castles made of sand fall into the sea eventually. the ratification of the european constitution, despite its rejection in two referendums, is undemocratic, cowardly and illegitimate.
mr president, in my eight years in this parliament, i have heard some rather absurd claims made in this chamber, but a special humbug prize must go to the assertion that what we just did in pushing through this treaty by a huge vote represented a free exercise of will of the peoples of europe. you know very well that is untrue, those of you who applauded so heartily when those lines were spoken. you know it, and i can prove that you know it, because you used to support referendums until it became clear that you would lose them. in fact, what this vote did was underline the remoteness of the members of this house from their own constituents. the cancellation of the referendums is an act of cowardice and an abdication of leadership, and you know it. if i am wrong, prove me wrong. put the treaty to the referendums that you supported when you thought you could win them. put the lisbon treaty to the vote. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i want to say i voted against the report on the lisbon treaty. the cat is out of the bag, and we have thrown the baby out with the bath-water. while we are trying to create a common market, we have actually, by stealth, created a common country. we have refused to get our people involved in the process. we have denied them their natural right to be able to speak about how they should be governed and we have ignored, as much as we can, the fact that they should have had a referendum. how can we say to our people, our constituents, that this parliament represents their views, when their views are not allowed to be heard? the british government – mr brown, in particular – promised a referendum. mr brown, in particular, and mr blair, in particular, said they would give the british people a referendum. i am very, very sorry for this day and i am very sorry for the broken promises of the labour government.
in writing. − although ukip rejects the lisbon treaty, we abstained on amendment 31 because we do not agree with the justification for the amendment.
in writing. − i welcome this report by mr méndez de vigo and mr corbett, which both emphasises the fact that the reform treaty is not the constitution, while also enabling europe to pursue the new global role it will have to play in the coming decades. it strengthens the institutional power of the union. it enhances democracy by empowering the european parliament. it enables the union’s common foreign and security policy to develop to ensure that europe’s economic and industrial power is reflected in global politics, and in particular will allow the eu to play a key role in tackling global warming.
in writing. − british conservatives voted against this report. from the start, we have made it clear that this treaty (constitution) is not the way forward for europe. conservatives support a europe of independent states working together to meet the challenges of globalisation, global poverty and global warming – as our priorities – in a cooperative fashion, and we have been clear and consistent in our approach, in full knowledge of the likely effect of the treaty on our aims and ambitions for europe. these things are not achieved by this text or by the aspirations of those who want an integrated european state.
in writing. − i voted for this report, not because i consider that the lisbon treaty amendments offer the way to a european union which is firmly based on a commitment to sustainable development, peace and human rights rather than the market and competition, but because i consider it does have factors which are more positive than our current treaty arrangements. the charter of fundamental rights is an important addition. all eu legislation and its implementation at member state level will now have to be checked against the charter and can be challenged if it falls short. greater codecision will mean more scrutiny and more daylight in the decision-making process. the citizens’ initiative is an important step forward. i have grave concerns about greater military cooperation, which is already under way, and want our national and european parliament to closely scrutinise this development. it is crucial that the eu builds on its strengths as a diplomatic and peace-building power. i believe it is important that eu citizens are involved in the ratification process through referendums and that those results should be respected. it is the task of governments and the council to respond practically to that general principle, not this parliament.
in writing. − i voted against this report in order to register my objection to the arrogance and disregard shown by political leaders throughout the eu towards the wishes of eu citizens, and to state very clearly that i believe the people of the eu should be given a referendum on this issue. the treaty of lisbon is essentially a repackaging of the old constitution, which was rejected by france and the netherlands – two countries where referenda had been allowed. as a key architect of the original text, valéry giscard d'estaing, himself has said that ‘the proposals in the original constitutional treaty are practically unchanged. they have simply been dispersed through the old treaties in the form of amendments.’ i do not oppose the principle of a constitution. but i oppose this particular one (and the treaty which reproduces it) because eu citizens deserve better. while the treaty includes some positive measures, these are outweighed by negative ones – the further militarisation of the eu, for example, as well as measures to promote greater liberalisation and privatisation. worse, it squanders a perfect opportunity to put sustainability and climate security genuinely at the heart of the union, and fails to bring the eu institutions closer to european citizens.
in writing. − in this report on the treaty of lisbon we clearly see that the treaty will bolster the democratic credentials of the eu. with greater involvement from both national and european parliaments in decision-making procedures, we are giving the european people what they have always asked of the eu: a greater voice. the treaty's focus on efficient and coherent policy-making, highlighted in the report, will give us the ability to face ever tougher global challenges. i voted in favour of this report and would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on what is an excellent report on a very sensitive and pivotal issue for the future of the union.
in writing. − this is a very historic moment, the moment when the european union attempts to drag itself into the 21st century. many on the far right of this parliament fear an effective european union because it will diminish their ability to stoke up fear at a national level. hence their almost hysterical demands on the one hand and total unacceptable behaviour on the other. i congratulate our twin rapporteurs on their work. we must all remember that what we have here is a reform treaty and an amending treaty that will ensure that an eu of 27 can work effectively and, more importantly, work closely with the citizens of the european union. i will support this report in the hope that this will send a message not only to our citizens but to our member state governments that this parliament is serious in its desire to see a more accountable and more effective european union.
in writing. − i would like to add my support to commissioner wallström’s point on ensuring that women are represented in the four senior posts in the eu. for too long these top eu posts have been seen as ‘male, pale and stale’. we must move away from the perception of an ‘all boys club’ to a more representative grouping running the eu. women deserve to be represented.
in writing. − the accuracy and reliability of information on population and housing is essential for effective policies to be implemented at eu and national level. in the past, the inconsistencies arising between different member states have rendered international comparisons difficult and so i welcome moves to clarify the issues involved. i have also been aware, however, that these issues raise questions regarding data protection and i acknowledge the hard work done in committee to address these concerns. i was accordingly able to support amendment 71 and the report as a whole.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal for a regulation on population and housing censuses. in formulating a common set of european guidelines that allow for europe-wide comparison of statistics, we will improve the eu's ability to formulate legislation that is consistent with the changing needs of people around europe. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − british conservatives have consistently supported the aims and the core policies of the lisbon strategy. in particular, we have highlighted the importance of a fully functioning single market in goods and services, creating a better business environment (especially for smes), stimulating innovation and introducing labour market reforms that focus on skills, flexibility and encouragement to create new jobs. we have voted in favour, once again, of this annual motion for a resolution on the lisbon strategy to show our continued support for the underlying reform agenda. however, this does not imply that we support all of the detailed recommendations that have been included. in particular, we are absolutely against the additional social measures (except for pension portability) set out in the original version of article 41. we also reject the integration of transport into the lisbon treaty, as set out in article 27, and we take the opportunity of reaffirming our strong view that, in the uk, this treaty must be subject to ratification by the electorate through a referendum.
in writing. − with the renewal of the lisbon strategy i stress the need for a real update of the integrated policy guidelines, along with a greater role for the european parliament in monitoring how the strategy is followed up. the focus should be on achieving a socially sensitive europe that deals with the current economic problems we face without isolating those most vulnerable. the need for enforcement of a minimum wage in all member states is one of the key ways that we can ensure that all european citizens enjoy a decent basic standard of living. i am satisfied with the resolution and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the lisbon strategy is essential for the future success of the eu. it is vital that all member states fulfil their commitment to make the eu the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
in writing. − my group tabled a number of amendments on important issues such as climate change, fairer wealth distribution and fair pay, which i voted for.
in writing. − i welcome the report on the broad economic policy guidelines for 2008-2010. in the current economic climate, we must give the eu the necessary tools to help us weather the storm. in doing this, europe must remain a social europe that has well coordinated mechanisms for high-quality public spending, research and innovation and education. climate change must also feature highly in the formation of europe’s economic priorities if we are to meet the ambitious targets that we have set ourselves.
in writing. − the british labour delegation supports the main thrust of this report, as it attends to promoting generally-acceptable policies for the eu economy. however, the eplp has severe reservations over paragraph 26, which calls for fiscal harmonisation/coordination, which is a national competence only. therefore, the eplp decided to abstain on this particular paragraph.
in writing. − on paragraph 26, the amendment refers to a common consolidated corporate tax base. i disagree with this point as i believe this should be decided by the member state. i abstained on this point.
in writing. − i wish to congratulate my colleague mr özdemir on his report on central asia, to which i gave my full backing. democracy and human rights are founding principles of the eu, and they should be at the heart of the eu's policy in relation to other regions. the nations of central asia have attracted attention from the world's economic powers primarily on account of their natural resources. the eu must rise above this and seek to invest in their human resources too, by advocating democracy and human rights.
in writing. − mr özdemir's report on the eu's strategy for central asia deals with a key issue on the eu's foreign policy agenda. i welcome its emphasis on attending to human rights in the central asian region; an emphasis that the eu should apply to its external relations more generally. there exists little evidence of democratic advancement in the region, notably uzbekistan and turkmenistan, and any eu strategy for cooperation should attempt to engage these states in a drive towards the concept of democracy. as the report clearly outlines, central asia requires active eu energy cooperation in a bid to find mutually beneficial solutions to the current state of play in the energy market. i agree with mr ozdemir's recommendations and voted in favour of the report.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. − mr president, in the minute i have on behalf of the committee on petitions, i would like to do three things. first of all, i would like to thank ms frassoni for her cooperation on this annual report, but, most of all, i would like to make clear the importance of the petitions committee in this monitoring and implementation procedure. i think that importance has, at long last, been recognised by the commission. i thank the commissioner for that, because we should really have a partnership in this exercise between our two institutions, and particularly involving the petitions committee, which is really our eyes and ears, as legislators, through our citizens, who come to us with direct problems that they perceive. but, in order for our citizens to be able to do that, i come to my second point. commissioner, you talked about our law being living law. well, in order for it to be living law, it needs to be understandable – comprehensible – to our citizens. i have had a long dialogue with your colleague ms wallström about citizens’ summaries, so that citizens understand our law. she has, on many occasions, promised us that these will be forthcoming with every legislative instrument. we still await the real evidence of that happening. lastly, the petitions committee – and this i address to my own colleagues – needs much greater prominence and resources in our own house. it is not just an interfering busybody committee. it does a real job in connecting with our citizens in this area.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to turn my attention to our three institutions and to emphasise how important it is that each one plays a part in the implementation and monitoring role. clearly, here, we are looking at the commission’s report. of course, the commission has the prime responsibility for implementation and enforcement, and we would not wish to tread on its toes in that respect. however, i think the commission can assume that, in future, we will be watching much more carefully. we are grateful that many of the lessons that were thrown up by our report on the demise of equitable life have been taken on board. but, as we move into a new period, and perhaps try out some new ideas, we have to be very careful. first of all, if we look at the council, we still have to get agreed – and i was pleased to hear the commissioner mention it – the idea of correlation tables in respect of each and every piece of legislation, so that everybody can see exactly what happens at member state level and where each piece of law fits in. the pilot project is an excellent idea. that is all well and good, so let us see how it works out. but – and here is the but – i am a little sceptical that so many member states have signed up to it. i hope they do not perceive it as some sort of soft option and i hope the commission will disabuse them of the idea that could, in any way, be the case. lastly, i come to our own parliament. clearly, post-lisbon treaty, we must have a much more important role in terms of monitoring. we cannot assume that, once we finish with a piece of legislation here, that is the end of it. our committees will have to take on a much bigger role in checking. one or two implementation reports are already happening – that will increase – and we will have to take on our responsibilities, along with the other institutions. just as a postscript – but a very important postscript – we also have to turn our attention to the education of our judiciary in our national courts to make sure that they, too, know how to implement community law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i congratulate my group colleague and group co-president mrs frassoni for a timely and well thought-out report. i also echo mrs wallis’s comments and agree with them absolutely. passing laws keeps us in business, but enforcing laws actually delivers for our people, and a failure to enforce laws, frankly, makes us look like fools. i congratulate the commission on a number of steps that have been very positive. but we really must bring this closer to the top of our agenda in this parliament because, certainly in scotland, there remains a strong perception that there is one law for one country and one law for another. i am very aware that is not all the fault of the commission, but we must all play our part in resolving that if we are one europe. so, in congratulating my group colleague, i am glad to hear that many of those points will be taken on board by the commissioner. i would like to make one more point, particularly in relation to environmental legislation, where many of the conflicts arise: many of the very worthy aims of individual pieces of legislation do conflict, and we must face up to that in preparing them. there is scant guidance in terms of application for local authorities as to how they should deal with the often very worthy aims when they do conflict. we were promised a review of that in the energy package, so if our commissioner could give us some light on that process, which is ongoing, i would be very grateful.
mr president, i agree with those who say that there really was no other option but the independence of kosovo. the eu is taking on its largest civilian mission ever and it will be very important that it is successful. it is quite an extraordinary situation. it is rather difficult to explain to outsiders that, although not all member states can agree on recognising kosovo, they all support the eulex mission. indeed, a country like spain is supplying personnel to the mission – this is very eu, very brussels. but it must succeed. i agree with commissioner rehn that the message to serbia must be that the time has come to turn the page and, as others have commented, in that context it was somewhat disappointing to listen to mr jeremić, the serbian foreign minister, this afternoon. i understand the rawness and the sense of grievance, but things must move on rapidly. i hope that prime minister thaci will make it absolutely clear to his compatriots that the protection of the serb minority and other minorities in kosovo is an absolute priority, because violence will not be tolerated. in that context, i was disappointed that the serb foreign minister did not condemn the violence that has been perpetrated by serbs in the last few years. he said serbia did not encourage or instigate it, but he did not actually use the word ‘condemn’, which was disappointing. finally, the important thing, as others have said, is going to be economic development. there is 40% unemployment in kosovo, and there is massive unemployment in serbia as well. let us move on towards rapid integration in the eu, moving via visa liberalisation, which i hope will come very soon.
mr president, i am persuaded that the fact kosovo was already a un protectorate, that the solution is supported by the un secretary-general, and that negotiations had failed, all mean that kosovo is a unique case in our world. i refute those who argue that this is an illegal act. paragraph 11a of un resolution 1244 makes clear that this is ‘pending a final settlement’. paragraph 7 specifically authorises security by ‘relevant international organisations ... with all necessary means’. i accept that this is a test of credibility for the european union, that any failure to respect the serb population’s rights in the new kosovo would be a victory for ethnic cleansing in reverse, and that we should emphasise that serbia, as well as kosovo, will be equal partners as future members of our european union. but let not the ghost of slobodan milošević stalk this decision or this chamber. the entrenchment of peace, the precursor of reconciliation, the platform for a whole region – as the fall of the berlin wall was for eastern europe, so let independence for kosovo be for former yugoslavia.
mr president, i fail to see the rush to resolve the kosovo issue, circumventing the un and ignoring current international law. i believe that kosovo’s new nationhood will be difficult, with no obvious exit strategy for the eu, whose presence will be long term, given a hostile serbia next door and the prevalence of organised crime. independent kosovo’s acceptance by russia and china, who are on the un security council, is very unlikely in the foreseeable future. we have now managed successfully to injure a serbia trying to forget milošević and build a democratic future. its loss may fan nationalist sentiments and drive serbia towards russia, which, in turn, may apply the precedence of the kosovo situation in frozen conflicts ranging from transnistria to abkhazia. russia will, interestingly, now claim the moral high ground in international law – perhaps for the first time in recent history. i have considerable sympathy with cyprus, which has refused to join the majority of eu member states in recognising kosovo. already, mr talat, the leader of the so-called ‘breakaway republic of northern cyprus’ claims kosovo as a precedent for his territory. as an aside to mr howitt – un talks also failed over the unification of cyprus, so that issue is not unique to this case. not surprisingly, spain is concerned about the basque country and catalonia, and slovakia about its hungarian minority. curiously, although the organisation of the islamic conference (oic) has welcomed an independent kosovo as a potential new member, azerbaijan, although in the oic, is wary over nagorno-karabakh claiming independence and refuses to recognise kosovo. therefore, whatever the eu and the us are saying about this issue being sui generis, clearly not all the countries of the world agree.
mr president, i commend this resolution to you. indeed, i commend the work of the parliament’s delegation to geneva where, as well as holding our own eu representatives to account, we work with them to engage in dialogue with countries in other regions of the world, demonstrating europe’s strength and solidarity in upholding human rights and international humanitarian law. i am grateful for the inclusion of my amendments in the text supporting the call for a special session on violence against women and for the signature and ratification by all our countries of all international human rights instruments. i call for europe’s support, in particular, for the renewal of the mandate of the special representative on business and human rights. but having just returned from gaza, i would like to commend to you paragraph 34 in particular. this is a state of siege, with mediaeval conditions being imposed on the people of gaza. today we will identify it as a clear breach of human rights. if even tony blair cannot get israel to allow the import of equipment to stop 40 000 litres of untreated human waste poisoning the water supply, it is time for europe to act. european troops under a new mandate could help supervise the reopening of the borders and, as i now ask for your support, european countries can achieve agreement on all sides in the un human rights council to seek enforcement of international humanitarian law. we, as europe, can take the initiative, as was suggested by the slovenian presidency at our human rights subcommittee in brussels only last week. we can propose a balanced text that recognises that both terrorist rocket attacks as well as the collective punishment of the blockade both break the fourth geneva convention. in doing so, we can achieve a consensus in geneva which can make a real difference to the humanitarian crisis suffered by the people of gaza.
the next item is question time (b6-0010/2008). the following questions are addressed to the council. question no 1 by manuel medina ortega (h-1042/07) subject: immigration in the wake of the eu-africa summit can the council provide information on the measures proposed for adoption in order to implement the agreements reached at the recent summit held in lisbon between the eu and the countries of africa on the subject of immigration?
question no 2 by claude moraes (h-1046/07) subject: regional funding after enlargement what solution has the council found for the issue of redistribution of regional funding made necessary by eu enlargement?
you spoke about the wider analysis of structural funding, but you may be aware that, last week, eurostat published figures which showed which were the richest areas in the european union and the richest cities. these included my own constituency of london, yet i live in a part of london which ranks among some of the poorest areas in western europe in terms of child poverty and so on. really, my question to you was: will you continue to take into account the fact that even in the richest areas, like london and frankfurt, there are still pockets of poverty, which have been left behind, and should not be left behind just because we are quite rightly helping the poorest parts of europe?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-1048/07) subject: 'flexicurity' at work what measures does the council intend to take in the near future to settle outstanding labour relations issues and support the ideas of 'flexicurity' at work?
the chairman of the council. − the council certainly intends to develop, to continue its efforts to improve the labour market situation. the improvement in labour market flexibility, which is often heard, does not mean a reduction in social security. this is the essence of the concept of flexible safety or safe flexibility. and the council believes that this is the only right course to take in a context of globalisation which involves many things. it is not just about increasing labour market flexibility, which must never be done at the expense of reducing social security, but also a whole range of other measures, from lifelong learning, better human resource development and other elements of flexible security. in short, the council intends to remain active in this area, and this will be one of the important topics to be addressed at the march european council as part of the launch of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, the question from the honourable member mr pirker. there is currently no consensus in the council or common position on the minimum wage, so at this stage the presidency is not planning any concrete initiatives in this direction. secondly, as regards the question by mrs mcguinness. i mentioned the council's proposal, or rather the council's call on the commission, to launch a public initiative to explain and facilitate the adoption of the common principles, the eight common principles adopted last december, to all relevant stakeholders in the labour market. at the same time, the council also invited the commission to inform it of the measures in question. here the council has asked the commission for certain action and we are now awaiting feedback from the commission.
question no 4 by gay mitchell (h-1050/07) subject: eu mission to chad will the council make a statement on the eu's mission to chad, and in particular on the present security situation on the ground? will the council give assurances that all necessary equipment for this difficult mission is available? how is the council coordinating with the un over the long-term situation in the region?
the chairman of the council. − the process of forming the forces for the european mission in chad, which proved to be rather difficult, was completed by 11 january this year to the extent that the operation commander could recommend the start of the operation. on 28 january, the council approved the plan for the operation, known as the 'o-plan', and adopted a decision to launch it. the operation, as it is known, is being led by irish general patrick nash. the force consists of some 3700 soldiers from 14 member states. these forces are composed, equipped and trained to fulfil their mission adequately in a very difficult environment. their rules on the use of force are strict and aligned with the mandate of chapter seven of the united nations charter. this mandate, as is well known, was granted by united nations security council resolution 1778. the european union operation, eufor chad-central african republic, shall be implemented for one year from the date of the declaration of initial operational capability and shall be neutral and impartial. from the outset, the planning was carried out in close cooperation with the united nations. in order to ensure transparency, effectiveness and complementarity of actions, appropriate coordination mechanisms are in place at all levels, in new york, brussels, the paris operational headquarters and in the field. following recent clashes between government forces and chadian rebel groups, the security situation in chad is currently more stable. the deployment of the eu mission is continuing and eufor is expected to reach initial operational capacity around mid-march. i should also like to mention some of the conclusions reached by the council at its last meeting on monday, that is to say the day before yesterday. the council expressed its deep concern at the regional consequences of the conflict in darfur and the attempts to overthrow the government of chad. he expressed support for the african union and the united nations in their calls for respect for chad's sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity. the council noted that recent events had further underlined the need to deploy mission personnel to eastern chad, where their role would be to provide enhanced security. the council also stressed that the mission would be impartial, neutral and independent in the performance of its tasks. in conclusion, the council will closely monitor, at all levels, the security situation in chad and in west darfur, and assess the implications of these conditions for the eufor mission.
the chairman of the council. − i would stress that, in principle, the equipment of the units is the responsibility of each individual member state sending the units on a mission. so you are asking for guarantees, mr president, which the council cannot give because it is the responsibility of each individual member state. i can only repeat what i said in the introduction, that the process of forming forces has ended successfully. he was a difficult man, but he was successful in the end. so successful that the operation commander recommended that the operation could begin.
the chairman of the council. - i can only answer the question on neutrality by saying that the council decided again on monday, the day before yesterday, that the eu mission in chad will be impartial, neutral and independent. and i think that that also answers the question of the neutrality of the individual units involved in this operation. the entire operation is neutral, impartial and independent. this also provides a partial answer to the following additional question. this is not a recruitment operation. it is an operation that seeks to ensure the security of the area to which it is sent in an impartial and neutral manner, without seeking allies of one kind or another. this is, i repeat, a neutral and impartial operation, whose purpose is to ensure the security of the area under its mandate.
question no 5 by colm burke (h-1052/07) subject: burma regarding the appointment of mr piero fassino as eu special envoy for burma to support the un's good offices mission, and considering the important role of asean, india and china in relation to burma, how productive were mr fassino's recent meetings with china and other asian nations? in line with the gaerc conclusions of 15 october, the council reaffirmed on 14 december that the eu stands ready to review, amend or further reinforce restrictive measures against the government of burma in the light of developments on the ground. what further restrictive measures would the council consider (seeing as those presently in place are having somewhat of a minimal impact) and can the council set a deadline for their implementation? according to a recent fact-finding visit by the ngo csw to the thai-burmese border, the number of people killed by the burma army in the crackdown on peaceful protests in september was far higher than official figures. monks and civilians who had fled burma since september gave csw first-hand accounts of the regime's brutality against the pro-democracy movement. csw has found that hundreds may have been killed during the burma protests, and forced labour and rape continue in ethnic areas. how does the council respond to this report? according to the council, the eu is determined to assist the people of burma/myanmar further on their path to democracy, security and prosperity. how does the council propose to do so more specifically?
the chairman of the council. - i would like to recall at the outset that on 6 november last year, the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr javier solana, appointed a special envoy to burma, or myanmar, to highlight the importance which the european union attaches to democratic change, reconciliation, improvement of the human rights situation and development in the country. in accordance with that mandate, special envoy fassino first requested a meeting with the united nations special adviser, mr gambari, and consulted with key partners of the european union. the special envoy met with representatives of asean countries on the sidelines of the eu-asean summit in singapore last november. and in december, he went on his first mission to china. in rome and during his un visits to geneva and new york, he met with representatives of burma and its neighbours, and will also meet with their representatives in brussels. such consultations and political and diplomatic contacts of the eusr will continue in the coming months. particular attention will be paid to the united nations mediation and the activities of the friends of the united nations group. the general affairs and external relations council welcomed the work of special envoy fassini in coordinating the european union's diplomatic efforts with asian partners and reaffirmed his role in supporting and promoting the united nations mission. i would point out that the european union has long since adopted a comprehensive common position, which includes an arms embargo against burma and travel restrictions and asset freezes on a large number of burmese nationals associated with the military and government. in november 2007, the council adopted tougher sanctions, reinforcing existing measures and introducing new ones, mainly targeting extractive activities. as announced, the council will examine in due course the impact, effectiveness, political appropriateness and practical feasibility of any further restrictions. the council receives and examines information from its partners and numerous representations in governmental organisations on their experience with increased sanctions. finally, the council notes that some member states of the european union and the commission have recently increased their assistance to burma and to burmese refugees in neighbouring countries. the european union would be prepared to provide further assistance to burma and myanmar respectively. it therefore calls on the burmese authorities to take further steps to democratise the country and achieve national reconciliation. the official announcement of the constitutional referendum due to take place in may this year and, in particular, the multiparty elections in 2010 are steps in the right direction in the council's view.
the chairman of the council. - the council did not deal with any issues related to thailand or malaysia. however, he will be informed of the question you have raised, mr. member.
question no 6 by jim higgins (h-1056/07) subject: democracy movement in burma in the wake of the recent brutal suppression of the peaceful street protest in burma, could the council say what action it is taking to ensure that the democracy activists are protected and that the military junta works towards a peaceful and quick transition to an open democracy, and if has made representations for the return of the disappeared in burma, including monks whose whereabouts are unknown since the latest protests?
the chairman of the council. - as i mentioned in my previous question, the council is following the situation in burma/myanmar very closely and receives reports from a variety of sources. the eu responded to the demonstrations in august and september last year and to the violent suppression of peaceful protests with a number of clear statements of solidarity with the burmese people. it has also adopted more stringent restrictive measures and has directed them against those responsible for the violence and the general political stalemate and situation in that country. at the same time, as mentioned above, some member states and the commission have recently increased their assistance to both burma and burmese refugees in neighbouring countries, in view of the difficult living conditions of the population and the refugees. the european union was also among the initiators of the special session of the united nations human rights council in geneva, which in october 2007 authorised the un special rapporteur on human rights, sérgio pinheir, to visit burma/myanmar to investigate the violent suppression of protests in september and the alleged killings and disappearances following the events. the european union fully supports the recommendations of professor pinheir in his report of last december and regularly calls on the burmese authorities to implement these recommendations. the eu has carried out several demarches in the burmese regions. it also seeks to use meetings with burma and myanmar in multilateral fora to call on the authorities to launch an inclusive and comprehensive process of reconciliation and political reform, lift restrictions on aung san suu kyi, release political prisoners and improve access to international organisations, in particular the international committee of the red cross. the eu also represents this position to burma's neighbours and stresses the need to improve the situation in the country. as i have already mentioned, the announcement of the constitutional referendum and the announcement of the multiparty elections in 2010 are raising hopes.
the chairman of the council. - i have not yet received an answer to the question whether independent observation of the referendum announced in may will be ensured. so far, all we have is a hint that there will be a referendum. as i said, the council's assessment is that this is a step in the right direction. your question is of course relevant and will be brought to the attention of the council. the european union insists, and this concerns in particular the first part of your question, that the democratization processes in the country must involve the participation of the opposition and ethnic groups, as this is the only way we can hope to achieve national reconciliation and the long-term stability of the country.
question no 7 by mairead mcguinness (h-1054/07) subject: audiovisual media services directive does the council believe that the audiovisual media services directive 97/36/ec oj l 202, 30.7.1997, p. 60. will be able to keep pace with developments in audiovisual technology and advertising? is the council satisfied that requesting media service providers to develop codes of conduct towards children is a sufficiently robust measure to protect children's particular interests - for instance, to prevent advertising of so-called 'junk food' aimed at children?
the chairman of the council. - the honourable member is aware that on 11 december last year the council and the european parliament adopted a directive amending the television without frontiers directive and renaming it the audiovisual media services directive. the first recital in the preamble to the new amended directive explains that the amendment of the directive is necessary due to the development of new technologies and their impact on business models, in particular on the financing of commercial programming content. the new directive aims to respond to these technological changes by introducing a number of new, technology-neutral, terminology-based definitions that will allow them to be applied not only to existing services but also to underdeveloped forms of services such as audiovisual media services and on-demand services. in view of this future capacity, we believe that the directive governing the audiovisual sector should remain in force for a few more years. however, this directive requires the commission to submit a report on the application of this directive by 19 december 2011 at the latest and every three years thereafter, together with, if necessary, additional proposals for its adaptation, in particular taking into account recent technological developments. as regards the issue of advertising unhealthy food to children, the european parliament and the council agreed that this issue would be most effectively addressed if audiovisual media service providers developed codes of conduct. the second paragraph of article 3 (e) of the amended directive therefore includes a requirement that member states and the commission encourage audiovisual media service providers to draw up such codes.
the chairman of the council. −the essence of the code of conduct is precisely that it is developed by the providers themselves. it is clear, however, that if the codes are inadequate and do not meet the needs, neither the council nor the commission can be satisfied. therefore, in essence, my answer to your question can be, in fact, yes, the council and the commission should persist, at least until effective codes of conduct are developed by the providers.
president-in-office, could i direct you to another matter in terms of the protection of children in the context of media, in particular against the background of rising and alarming suicide rates in europe, not least in my own constituency? this is, what can the council do in respect of the gross misuse, in particular via internet services, of readily available advice on how to commit suicide? i today downloaded information from one such site, which gave multiple advice on how to commit suicide. it is quite appalling. even if one goes onto wikipedia one can find information on how to commit suicide. will the council address that in the context of child protection, in particular in the context of media?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex). that concludes question time.
madam president, i would just like to thank the services for very promptly acting upon the information that i sent them to accurately record my actual voting intention. that has now been done, so i would like, through you, to forward my thanks to them for acting as efficiently as they have done. the public record now shows my actual voting intention. i am obliged to you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this has been a difficult report. there has unfortunately been very little time to reach compromises or for real debate on some of the issues – hence the large number of amendments. however, i am pleased with many elements of what we do have, such as the need to tackle the issue of elder abuse. more needs to be done, urgently, to end the physical, financial, emotional and other forms of abuse regularly suffered by older people. the latest estimate puts the number of older people that have suffered abuse at over 10%, which is a staggering figure. that is why i welcome the commission’s intention to bring forward a communication on that issue. but we must do more. member states must also work towards ensuring independence, free personal care, lifelong learning and freedom from discrimination at the workplace for all older people. that means, of course, fully implementing the 2000 employment directive and then building on it. we must work to put an end to employees being thrown onto the employment scrapheap, whether at 50, 55 or 65. an arbitrary age of statutory retirement must be abolished, whilst ensuring a statutory pension age, set at member state level. there is a very clear difference between the two. individuals then have a choice to stop work and take their pensions, or to continue working and either take their pension or defer it until they choose to stop working. unfortunately, i was unable to achieve consensus on this, and therefore it is not in the report, but i believe member states must be encouraged to look at this for the future. i have tabled a number of amendments on behalf of my group, which i hope other members will see fit to support, but most of the issues covered by this report should remain within the competence of the member states. there is, of course, still a great deal we can do in terms of exchange of best practice.
mr president, inside the european union, britain has lost control of its borders. immigration to britain is now uncontrolled, unlimited and indiscriminate. as far as anyone knows, immigration to britain is currently running at about half a million people per year. taking into account those who leave, the net increase in population is about 200 000 per year, or a million people every five years. the birth rates of the immigrant population are much higher than that of the indigenous population. the dramatic rise in population in england, in particular, is fuelled purely by totally unnecessary immigration. demographers have calculated that, on current trends, within two generations, the native british, and especially the english, will be an ethnic minority in their own land. britain simply cannot control its immigration policy inside the european union, and that is yet another good reason why we should leave.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this motion for a resolution on supporting scientific cooperation with africa is very timely, because it comes hot on the heels of a series of statements on science in africa over the last 12 months – by the united nations economic commission for africa in january 2007, in the g8 summit declaration about strengthening research and development cooperation and in the new chapter on ict and science and technology in the eu-africa strategy. with the science with africa conference in addis ababa coming up in march, this is indeed the moment for the european parliament to register its support for a new and intensified approach to eu-africa scientific cooperation. of course, there have been initiatives in the past. there have been scholarships and research fellowships to help african scientists come and work in europe. there has been support for certain projects. but what there has not been is fully developed two-way scientific cooperation between africa and the eu. there is not yet a solid research base within africa for africa. the statistics say it all. africa has only 1% of the world’s scientific researchers, but 13% of the world’s population. only 1 in 10 000 people in africa is a scientist or engineer, whereas the figure is 1 in 200 in industrial nations. yet, because of climate change, there is no part of the planet where research is more vital. global warming in africa threatens to wipe out the modest progress that has been made towards the millennium development goals. but, if only the science and technology base was stronger, climate change could also be an opportunity for africa. this motion for a resolution rightly makes specific mention of solar energy. it is the renewable energy which africa has in abundance. huge advances are being made today in photovoltaic technology. last friday, i was at the new and renewable energy centre in blyth in northumberland, where innovative research is going on to reduce the cost of solar electricity by focusing the sun’s rays on very small silicon cells. i am delighted that this research is happening in my constituency, but unless such research and development happens in africa too, the immense potential of photovoltaics to deliver megawatts of electricity across africa will never be realised. i hope that this is the sort of scientific cooperation we are now moving towards.
in writing. – the comment ‘if you give a man a fish you feed him for a day, while if you teach him to fish you feed him for life’ is all too apposite to this debate. if africa is to escape from its poverty trap, it will need to expand the exploitation of its raw materials, strengthen its manufacturing base and increase its exports, but at the same time it will need to improve its scientific expertise. we in the west must increase the involvement of african scientists in international collaborative science and r&d projects, and reinforce existing research infrastructure.
madam president, it is nice to see the commissioner here in parliament. we look forward to seeing her in scotland again soon and to continuing our very fruitful cooperation on this policy. before i make my brief points, i would echo mr guerreiro’s points about support for the fisheries sector within cohesion policy. we will be supporting his amendments, and i do think this sector is of particular strategic importance in our geography. i would pick up on the rapporteur’s call for better statistics, particularly for the targeting and monitoring of the efficiency of funding programmes. it seems pretty clear, as things develop, that targeting at nuts i, nuts ii or even nuts iii level is pretty broad and pretty scatter-gun. i welcome moves in the future funding streams towards more thematic activity, be it the lisbon agenda, the promotion of a knowledge economy, the promotion of r&d, cross-border cooperation or, indeed, support for the fisheries sector under the lisbon agenda. that is, i believe, the future for a really vibrant cohesion policy for the european union, which is very much the jewel in the eu’s crown. it has brought the eu closer to our citizens and it has made us one union where the member states would keep us a series of different states. we have a great potential to make this policy even more relevant and we look forward to hearing about the green paper in the commissioner’s speech.
a uachtaráin, léiríonn an dá thuarascáil inniu an fáth a bhfuil beartas comhtháthaithe de dhíth orainn agus conas is cóir an beartas sin a chur i bhfeidhm. tá forbairt réigiúnach chothromaithe an-tábhachtach. is ceart go ndíríonn tuarascáil an uasail guellec ar a chinntiú go mbeidh cistí réigiúnacha amach anseo dóthanach agus go mbeidh siad dírithe ar riachtanais na saoránach agus na réigiún a chur chun cinn ar bhealach éifeachtach. ní féidir caitheamh le beartas comhtháthaithe ach amháin mar uirlis le straitéis liospóin a chur i bhfeidhm. gabhaim buíochas leis an rapóirtéir. is iomaí tairbhe a bhain éire as airgead comhtháthaithe agus le go bhféadfaidh tíortha eile an tairbhe chéanna a bhaint amach, is gá dúinn a chinntiú go dtreoraítear acmhainní méadaithe chun forbairt réigiúnach a chur chun cinn, agus chun dul i ngleic le heisiamh sóisialta. ní hamháin go gcaithfimid an bhearna idir ballstáit a laghdú, ach caithfimid na bearnaí taobh istigh de na ballstáit agus na bearnaí idir réigiúin a laghdú fosta. tuairiscíonn an tuasal guellec rátaí fáis mórthaibhseacha na héireann, na spáinne, na portaingéile agus na gréige sna blianta idir 2000 agus 2006. ach tugann sé chun suntais in ainneoin na bhfás, go bhfuil míchothromaíochtaí móra idir réigiúin taobh istigh de na tíortha sin. gabhaim buíochas le bean kallenbach fosta as a tuarascáil agus cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh a béim ar ról na n-údarás uirbeach áitiúil a dhaingniú chun rochtain ar sheirbhísí poiblí do gach saoránach a sholáthar. tá gá le cumasú áitiúil, le meas ar an chomhshaol agus ardchaighdeán seirbhísí poiblí a bhíonn infhaighte go huilíoch le gur féidir leis an chomhshaol uirbeach a bheith ina áit tharraingteach le cónaí agus le hobair inti. dúshlán ollmhór é an fhorbairt inbhuanaithe laistigh de limistéir uirbeacha san 21ú aois, agus is féidir leis an chreat a chuir bean kallenbach inár láthair inniu, cuidiú linn dul i ngleic leis an dúshlán sin.
madam president, these reports comment on the disparity between the rural and urban economies, between rich and poor, especially in eastern europe, and between the disadvantaged and the rest of society. the answer, apparently, is to offer a vast catalogue of cultural, economic, technical developments and social engineering provision. it notes the success of such programmes in ireland, spain, portugal and greece to relieve these inequalities and encourages similar strategies, frameworks and action programmes to generate progress in affected areas, especially in eastern europe. above all it mentions cohesion funds. we get to the nub. eur 65 billion on such programmes in needy western countries in the last few years, but eastern europe is much poorer than those countries ever were. so these subsidies – for that is what they are – will be taken from those countries still receiving them and from an ever smaller pot as the chill economic winds from the usa reach us. unfortunately for all its citizens – the well off and the poor alike – these subsidies are self-defeating for they strip away initiative from people and produce a culture of dependency. if you really want to help, listen to professor buchanan of the london school of economics. his paper states clearly that ‘to help a poor country, trade is worth six times more than aid’. will you ever learn that? or, to put it another way, if, in a poor country, you give a starving man a fish, you feed him for a day. teach him how to fish and you feed him for life.
mr president, it is difficult to single out any one thing from these two excellent reports, but i wish to express particular thanks to mr guellec for the extent to which his report addresses the issue of disparities within regions. for, even in those that can be classified as relatively prosperous overall, there may still be certain groups that are disadvantaged or excluded. this may be a matter of their territorial location. inhabitants of islands and mountainous and scarcely-populated border and peripheral areas can be cases in point. so, too, can fisheries-dependent communities, particularly when they are to be found in areas of the kind just mentioned. which is why i, too, very much hope that parliament will approve amendments 19 and 20, which seek to reinforce their position. but disadvantage and exclusion may be at a more distinctly social level. i am thinking of a project back home in aberdeenshire called can-do. it has provided occupation for people with learning difficulties, in sorting cans and bottles for recycling. it lost eligibility for european support when funding for the current period was relocated to parts of the country where deprivation is more widespread. but the people concerned remain just as much at risk of social exclusion as before. both examples show that, if we are to target funding at those most in need, we need to develop a more sophisticated approach to quantifying that need. i ask the commission to pay particular attention to the call in the report for improved statistical tools to allow more accurate measurement of the extent of cohesion and better assessment of the contributions of local actions aimed at achieving it. such tools would also allow us to pinpoint actual cases of disadvantage and decide how they can best be addressed.
mr president, first of all i would like to give my congratulations to the rapporteurs for their excellent reports. i would also like to say that i understand the passion of members from the new member states. i know that it is far from easy to satisfy your constituents back in your own member state, but you are now part of the european union and, as such, like the rest of us, you will at times not get everything that you would like or want. i have to say to those who are merely playing on words that the difference between increased resources and sufficient resources is very small indeed. i certainly will be supporting the wording of ‘sufficient resources’. sometimes it is wise to recognise what you have achieved and bank it. i personally support the use at this time of the word ‘sufficient’, especially when many of the funds in those areas have not been spent. i only wish that my own region was half as lucky – we never were – in achieving such help. we are now even as far behind as some of the countries were that we are talking about.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to speak briefly on the future of cohesion policy, which is of crucial importance to old and new member states alike. i work closely with scottish local government bodies on their concerns, and was delighted that the convention of scottish local authorities (cosla) recently welcomed the draft eu treaty as far as local government is concerned. the treaty recognises the principle of local self-government, as well as that of territorial cohesion. it was no surprise to me that regional policy was among the five key areas recently raised with me by the cosla. in the context of reduced eu structural monies and funds, regional development monies must be better targeted – as many speakers have said – at local areas and local authorities, which must be the key deliverers of those funds. the guellec report reinforces the role of local authorities in delivering structural funds – after all, we forget at our peril that all politics are local.
in writing. − i welcome andré brie’s proposal for regulation on the accreditation and market surveillance of products in the european community. the proposal will improve the amount of protection given to consumers and will improve product safety. to ensure greater protection it is necessary that accreditation and market surveillance be carried out by a public body. the report attends to these points and i voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. − mrs schaldemose’s report calling for a common framework for the marketing of products is one that i welcome and have voted in favour of. the recommendations made in the report will bolster the eu’s efforts to protect consumers. the ce mark tends to be misunderstood as a safety mark, when in fact it is simply a statement of the product’s conformity with eu legislation. it is essential that we make sure that the mark is not abused and inform consumers of what the ce mark guarantees.
in writing. − i agree with the recommendations contained within mr stubb’s report. the document aims to clarify and define the role of national authorities and economic operators in the implementation of the mutual recognition principle. while i am in favour of increasing the efficiency with which the mutual recognition principle is implemented, it must not affect the single market’s base of further harmonisation. furthermore, safety aspects must form part of the principle’s implementation. i am confident that the report sufficiently deals with these issues and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this resolution. the humanitarian and political crisis in the gaza strip must be viewed with deep concern. we must ask hamas to stop attacks against israel from the territory it controls, and israel to cease military actions killing civilians and extrajudicial targeted killings. the policy of isolation of the gaza strip has totally failed at a political and human level. the blockade must end, with the re-opening of crossings in and out of gaza. i welcome the eu’s financial contributions to the palestinians over the previous years which – with the appropriate controls and monitoring – should continue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on gaza and am pleased that parliament has taken such a strong stance on lifting the blockade. this is a humanitarian disaster in the making. there are insufficient drugs available in hospitals to provide basic care; food assistance to part of the population only fulfils about two-thirds of daily requirements; the fishing industry (which employed about 10 000 people) is under severe stress, as boats are only allowed to operate close to the coast. there is an ecological disaster under way, threatening the coastlines of the region, as the beit lahia plant sewage plant is not operating properly and repairs cannot be carried out, as supplies are blocked. businesses cannot survive and the unemployed have to find work with the smugglers and extremists. the rocket attacks continue and the few involved in this threaten the peace and the future of the many – both israeli and palestinian. hamas must stop the perpetrators. only the extremists on all sides are benefiting, as i heard time and again on my recent visit to gaza. the eu must do everything possible to break the blockade, and israel must recognise that it is not giving them long-term security.
in writing. − while every effort must be made to find a solution to the situation in gaza, this resolution at best will contribute nothing and at worst will have a negative impact. if parliament wants to be an honest broker for peace in the middle east it should stop producing unbalanced resolutions. it is difficult for any member not to vote for a resolution addressing humanitarian concerns but by linking those concerns to an unfair portrayal of israel its value falls. a parliamentary resolution should not call for hamas to release a captive as a mere “act of goodwill”. hamas is not a benevolent medieval king; it is a terrorist organisation largely responsible for the situation in gaza. in demanding that israel fulfils its obligations, this house should note that israeli workers continue to risk their own lives to supply electricity to gaza despite the manipulation of that electricity supply by hamas. in addressing the needs of those who are suffering, we must include the people of southern israel on whom some days an average of a rocket an hour has been fired and where 75% of children are reported to be suffering from anxiety and post-traumatic stress.
in writing. − the tone, and much of the content, of the gaza resolution, is skewed in an anti-israeli fashion. it is certainly the case that the palestinians in gaza live in a perpetual state of privation, and this is inhumane. but the blame for this rests only partly with israel, and primarily with palestinian terrorists and extremists such as hamas, and the failure of arab states to assist the rehabilitation of the population, and regeneration of the area. gaza has been allowed to remain a running sore. i regret that there was no call for those currently in authority in gaza to take the necessary steps for a peaceful accommodation with israel. i welcome the call for the release of corporal shalit. i therefore abstained in the vote.
in writing. − i welcome françoise castex’s recommendations regarding europe’s demographic future. the overall message of encouraging economic competitiveness while preserving the european social model is one that i feel is both logical and just. i agree with the report’s focus on the role of areas such as education, childcare and financial mechanisms in securing this goal. there also exists a necessity for the promotion of professional equality between men and women along with a well and calmly thought-out immigration policy that incorporates the goal of successful integration. the report deals with these issues and i voted in favour of its recommendations.
i scríbhinn. − ní aontaím le gach aon rud atá scríofa i dtuarascáil ambroise guellec ach fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil ina ainneoin sin, agus vótáil mé ar a son. fáiltím chomh maith roimh bhéim an uasail guellec ar fhorbairt réigiúnach chothromaithe. ní hamháin go gcaithfimid an bhearna idir ballstáit a laghdú, ach caithfimid na bearnaí taobh istigh de bhallstáit agus na bearnaí idir réigiúin a laghdú fosta. is gá dúinn a chinntiú go dtreoraítear acmhainní méadaithe chun forbairt réigiúnach a chur chun cinn agus chun dul i ngleic le heisiamh sóisialta. ní féidir caitheamh le beartas comhtháthaithe ach amháin mar uirlis le straitéis liospóin a chur i bhfeidhm.
in writing. − i welcome ambroise guellec’s report on the commission’s fourth report on economic and social cohesion. the findings point towards definite progress in improving economic and social cohesion across the eu. however, the findings that disparities have increased in a number of member states, especially between capitals and rural areas, demonstrate the need to continue in this policy’s goal to try and reduce the differences within and among the eu’s multiple regions.
i scríbhinn. − ní aontaím le gach aon rud atá scríofa i dtuarascáil gisela kallenbach ach fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil ina ainneoin sin, agus vótáil mé ar a son. fáiltim go háirithe roimh bhéim bhean kallenbach ar ról na n-údarás uirbeach áitiúil a dhaingniú. is dúshlán ollmhór é an fhorbairt inbhuanaithe laistigh de limistéir uirbeacha san aonú haois is fiche agus is féidir leis an chreat a chuir bean kallenbach i láthair inniu cuidiú linn uile dul i ngleic leis an dúshlán seo.
in writing. − gisela kallenbach’s report ‘follow-up of the territorial agenda and the leipzig charter’ is a report that i voted in favour of. we need to be more sensitive to the territorial and urban dimension of eu policies. in improving cooperation between urban and rural areas and implementing efficient strategies that aim at sustainable spatial development we can successfully achieve this.
mr president, i understand that the free university of minsk is today situated in vilnius, lithuania. i wonder if commissioner figeľ might consider writing a letter to the education and culture ministers of the 26 other eu member states to suggest there should be 27 free universities of minsk. when it comes to the united kingdom, there are of course great universities like oxford and cambridge, but i would recommend bristol.
mr president, i do not see the logic in taking one of them before any of the others, because they are all different; they are all cases which have great merits on their own. my group, together with the gue/ngl group, has proposed that we have a debate on the iranian homosexual in mortal danger, and i would like to find a way of dealing with this. i fear that this is what happens when groups do not coordinate and start acting out of order. we made a clear decision on russia at the conference of presidents last week. if the cooperation – and there is a lot of it between the ppe-de group and the pse group – cannot manage this in such a way that we do not end up in this mess, then i think the two groups ought to be looking at it. i think you have got to find a fair way, mr president, of dealing with these three together.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the situation in gaza is, first and foremost, a humanitarian disaster. no amount of condemnation of any party to the conflict will solve that. gaza has been besieged since june of last year. one and a half million people are trapped with hopelessly insufficient provision of water, electricity, fuel and sewage disposal. two years ago, three out of every five gazans depended on un assistance; it is now four out of every five. businesses are bankrupt, jobs are almost impossible to find and the situation is worse than at any point since the israeli annexation of the territory in 1967. the israeli soldier, gilad shalit, has been held prisoner since june 2006, and i believe some 11 000 palestinians languish in israeli jails. the major condemnation of the european union in all of this is that we have followed blindly the strategy of the americans. marc otte, the european union’s special representative, speaking to our delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council recently, said that, on strategy, the european union follows the usa. the most obvious result of this is that palestinian infrastructure, funded by the european taxpayer, is being regularly destroyed by the israeli army using american weapons. should we be committing european money in this way, in these circumstances? if ever there was a need for a common foreign and security policy for the european union, surely this is it! my group welcomes the informal truce reached at lunchtime today. we wish egypt success in its mediation talks, but we are convinced that the cycle of violence, which most recently led to 56 deaths in gaza on 1 march 2008 and eight deaths in jerusalem on saturday, cannot be broken by violence. for peace to succeed, we need dialogue. annapolis promised peace within 10 months, but many of us believe that, once again, israel is trying to de-legitimise every interlocutor. hamas continues to be cynical with its policy of rocket attacks, knowing that the response will be disproportionate. we condemn violence from all sides. yes, israel has a right to defend itself against indiscriminate attacks on civilians, but it has a duty as a democracy to be more just than its disposable power implies. we seem to be getting further away from a two-state solution – whether it is the rocket attacks on ashkelon or whether it is the 530 new settler homes just announced in givat ze’ev, near ramallah. the policy of the west has been based on three assumptions: number one, you cannot possibly talk to hamas; number two, israel is the only democracy in the region and must be treated as a normal democracy and, number three, mr abbas is the voice of the reasonable palestinians. many in my group question those three assumptions and believe that our policy needs to be looked at again urgently to find a situation where those communities can live together.
mr president, i can readily join in deploring the recent events in gaza and the middle east and in remarking on how terrible is the humanitarian tragedy there and the immense suffering that all sides are being subjected to. but i have to draw a distinction between the orchestrated, constant, repeated attacks upon the state of israel and the right of that state to defend itself. it is an internationally recognised state. it recognises and accepts a two-state solution in the middle east, and yet it is constantly, persistently and viciously subjected to the most horrendous violence from across its borders, particularly from hamas-controlled territory. i therefore make no apology, from my perspective, of saying that israel does have the right, indeed the necessity, to defend itself and to act against those who, beyond reason and argument, will not even make the most basic concession of accepting the right of israel to exist. we hear much talk in this debate and elsewhere about a balanced and even-handed approach. there is nothing even-handed in equating, no matter how justified they are, the political demands of gaza with the vicious and repeated terrorist attacks on israel as epitomised by the attack on the school. there is nothing even-handed in equivocating over hamas’s refusal to recognise israel and then demanding that no walls, no defensive action should be taken by the state that is not even recognised. it is a consequence of that failure to recognise the right of israel to exist which has bred so much of the trouble and turmoil in the middle east.
madam president, parma is famous for its ham and the champagne region for its champagne, but i wonder how many colleagues here realise that yorkshire is famous for its rhubarb. the yorkshire rhubarb growers have applied to the european commission to grant it protected designation of origin status, and i would urge the commission to accede to this request. nearly 90% of europe’s indoor-grown rhubarb was, until recently, produced in yorkshire; that figure may have declined, but the quality has certainly not declined. the special climate of yorkshire and the special techniques developed by generations of growers have ensured the special quality of this rhubarb, which is grown when the roots are transferred to dark sheds and the darkness means that the stalks grow up seeking light and produce a very special quality which many top chefs and the finest restaurants recognise as being an exceptional delicacy. i urge the commission to grant them this status.
madam president, i rise to draw your attention to the problems being experienced in the south-east of england in consequence of the industrial action taken in the french cross-channel shipping industry on the dover-to-calais route. for many years this vital link in the trans-european network has been an inefficient bottleneck. perhaps that is understandable when it is caused by bad weather or technical problems, but on this occasion – for over two weeks now – the whole economy of this region has been held an innocent hostage in this dispute. i ask that the presidency prevail upon the european commission and the two respective governments to ensure that the principle of free movement of goods and people throughout the european union is upheld. i also ask that in the longer term they bring pressure to bear so that far greater urgency can be applied to finding long-term solutions to this problem, which brings so much hardship to our region.
madam president, as others have said, this memorandum of understanding is illegal under european community and eu law, which confers competence on the community or union for visa policy, key aspects of anti-terrorism and security policy and transfer of passenger data. it must surely be illegal for the czech republic to transfer to the us any information from common eu databases, such as the visa information system. but, almost more importantly, it is politically disastrous. some of us learnt early last year on a visit to washington how damaging the bilateral lobbying efforts – not only those of the czech republic, by the way – were to the attempts by the commission and presidency to present a united front in the interests of the whole eu. but no, some member states just could not get it. sure, i understand the frustration of countries whose soldiers are fighting and dying alongside americans, not only in afghanistan but, controversially, in iraq, at the fact that their citizens are suspected of terrorism when they want to visit the us. there is an irony in there somewhere. but how stupid to fall into this ‘divide-and-rule’ trap! this is so far from being in line with eu aspirations to have weight in the world that it causes one almost to despair and exposes the council as a whole to ridicule. like ms hennis-plasschaert, i note that they are not here to answer that charge tonight.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, as both the rapporteur and commissioner barrot have said, following long negotiations in the conciliation process, parliament and the council have finally reached an agreement, which i believe to be positive and worthy of our support. in the light of the ongoing terrorist threat, we believe that clear rules for security and, importantly, common implementation across europe’s airports and airlines are absolutely necessary, and this proposal delivers on both counts. whilst we have been unable to reach an agreement with the council on the issue of financing these security measures, the commission has agreed to come forward with a separate proposal on financing these measures within the next few months. i hope that this will be sooner rather than later. i want to make it clear, here and now, that when coming forward with this proposal both the council and the commission should take heed of parliament’s strong and united position on the issue. parliament must not be seen as another hoop that the commission and the council must jump through, but instead as a serious and equal player in the process. passenger safety and security are of paramount importance and, as such, i hope that the commission’s forthcoming proposal will reflect our strong stance. despite this sticking point, this report should be applauded. i can see the benefits in common security standards across europe. and, given that the heightened terrorist threat to aviation today is one which is ever growing, this proposal offers important improvements for passenger safety and security. i therefore urge the house to give this measure its full support.
madam president, i am pleased to see that progress has been made on this issue, because parliament has always indicated that we should be very thorough on these measures improving security for air passengers. i want to applaud mr costa, my colleagues on the committee on transport and especially commissioner barrot, who has worked to ensure that the arrangements for financing the measures are properly set out and that comitology is used to scrutinise the definition of common basic standards. eu cooperation is needed to provide consistency on this so that passengers are better informed. as i said late last year, mutual recognition of our differing legal traditions is the way forward in an eu of 27 member states, but basic security standards should be established in the eu. when the commission outlines the principle of financing later this year, i will argue strongly that member states should be allowed to go above and beyond these, should they feel the need, as long as they are prepared to pay the costs. this comes on the back of reports which claim that the british airports authority is to fingerprint and photograph all passengers checking in for domestic flights at heathrow and several other airports. i believe these measures should be scrutinised to make sure they are effective. the use of biometric technology as proposed by commissioner frattini is in order to produce greater efficiency, and must not alienate public support. the public have already tolerated a massive amount of inconvenience through security measures which may be desirable, but there appears to be a lack of clear objective analysis of their effectiveness. the random nature of some of the provisions is particularly disruptive and we should surely be asking for consistency in the approach of airport authorities across europe, if not on a global basis. the eu should be proactive rather than reactive with regard to all these security issues. we must be one step ahead of the threat by developing more sophisticated technology and by sharing best practice and pooling intelligence. i believe that this report certainly takes us somewhat in that direction.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, as we have heard from mr albertini and the commissioner, this is a very timely and important report and we welcome it. in his introductory remarks, mr albertini said that this gives us a chance to outline our transport policy, bearing in mind the environment and fuel efficiency, something about which this parliament has consistently felt very strongly and expressed its views. mr barrot, in his contribution, called the whole issue a huge challenge and one, i know, that all our governments are looking at. as mr barrot said, we have to recognise transport’s clear contribution and the need for the ‘greening’ of transport. in this respect, i am very proud of the fact that london has led the way with a number of initiatives, be it the congestion charge, the new low-emission zone or higher charges for less environmentally friendly vehicles, something which had been opposed by london’s conservatives. mr barrot also spoke about the need to recognise the external costs of transport and mr albertini spoke about some of the amendments. however, i think there is a contradiction in the ppe-de group’s position – one i know the ppe-de group has debated internally – and there is a contradiction in this report. recital b, for example, talks about energy consumption and highlights ‘road transport, accounting as it does for 83% [...] of energy’. against that, amendment 1, by the ppe-de group, and co-signed by some members from the alde group, is quite clearly trying to change the position adopted in committee to one that favours road transport over rail transport. that does not fit in with a package that is arguing for sustainable transport over forms that are not friendly to the environment. i ask mr albertini, when he winds up, and i ask the alde group, which has also supported this, why they are trying to turn it round and why they are trying to favour road transport. i suggest that perhaps the person whose fingerprints are really on this is not here to answer that tonight. i must say that my group will be considering whether we would support this whole report were that amendment to go through. i look forward to it. other than that, the principles in the report are fine.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the uk should make its own laws, so i reject this proposal. but i do not dispute the fact that more efficient cars are a good idea and that working from home cuts down pollution. what concerns me about this report is words like ‘pricing policy’ and ‘tax on fossil fuels’, because no current serious alternatives exist and these taxes are very inflationary. the future must be about encouraging innovation and technology, not about tricking people who have no alternative into paying more tax. most public transport systems are good for the commuter but do not fit the needs of the businessman who must drive into work in order to use his car to visit clients later. but the city of strasbourg provides a first-class tram system, with a tram stop outside this very building, so why are meps here in strasbourg not leading by example? they do not visit clients, they just come here to misrule europe. yet almost all of them use chauffeur-driven limousines and ignore the trams. if meps complied with their own words, then perhaps the public would listen. in simple english, madam president, this house is guilty of gross hypocrisy. what were meps saying about sustainable transport, please? because, like the no-smoking rule in the parliament dining rooms, meps ignore it!
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to say that i support this amending budget, and there are one or two items which i would like to comment upon. firstly concerning the solidarity fund: this, of course, was the allocation in respect of the floods in britain in june and july last year. much of this flooding happened in my region, and i can testify to the appalling damage and hardship which it brought on many residents of my area. i was interested – but not surprised – to note that this was the third largest claim in the history of the solidarity fund, the claim being eur 4.6 billion and the allocation being to the sum of eur 162.8 million. i am aware that my friend and colleague reimer böge said that, of course, in the grand order of things it is not a great deal of money. perhaps it is not, but as a gesture of solidarity, please believe me that it is well and truly appreciated, and on behalf of the people of that region, i want to express my thanks: firstly to the members of the budget committee, who were unanimous in their support of this aid package – which is truly a gesture of solidarity. but may i also express my appreciation to the commissioner and her colleagues who turned this claim around in seven months. i thought that was a remarkable achievement, commissioner, and i thank you for your efforts to do that. i shall, of course, watch with interest over the next weeks and months to see how the united kingdom government disburses those funds, but it is clear to me that, with the increasing evidence of extreme climatic events, these issues are going to occur with a greater regularity throughout the european union, and it is clear that, when expressing solidarity, it is in fact speed of response that is the most important element in that mechanism. on the issue of frontex, i also wanted to say that i support the additional funding for frontex – we doubled the funding for the agency. i thought that was exactly right, and i note that this request is for the creation of 25 posts. but i do believe that it is important that we continue to monitor the distribution of funding, to ensure that it delivers value for money. in the same way, i supported thoroughly the lisbon objectives which the commission set for themselves, particularly in the field of research and development. i therefore recognise the need for the research executive agencies; but again, i express my anxiety at the proliferation of agencies which, i have to say, historically have not been renowned for their effective delivery of value for money. finally, on the subject of galileo: this new budget line will do a great deal to give greater transparency and accountability. however, i do agree with my colleagues on the budget committee when we say that we will proceed with caution. if i may say so, madam commissioner, this is a massive undertaking, and – borrowing some space age jargon – may i say that the commission here is ‘boldly going where no commission has ever gone before’. i therefore agree with my colleague reimer böge when he says that we support this, but we would insist on inserting the pm line. mr president, i support the amending budget and am happy to do so.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am replacing mr titley, the leader of the labour meps, tonight, but i can speak on behalf of all those meps in welcoming this amending budget and the decision to grant eur 162 million to the uk regions affected by flooding. as mr ashworth has said, it is a small grant towards covering the huge costs of the damage done by the floods in the uk, but we are appreciative to our colleagues in the committee on budgets, who voted unanimously, and also to the commission. i understand it was the quickest payment ever made: within seven months. therefore, although many people have been suffering for a long time, it is progress compared with previous funds. we also understand that it is one of the largest payments ever made, and we are appreciative of that. last year’s floods affected 48 000 uk homes and 700 businesses and the total damage is estimated at over eur 4 billion. my own region of yorkshire was one of the worst affected and many people have still not returned to their homes and, therefore, this help and assistance is very much appreciated. i am replacing mr titley as he is stuck in london because of the very severe storms that are battering western europe this evening. we cannot attribute all bad weather to climate change, but we do know that the number of extreme weather events is increasing. we have seen severe floods, and also the fires in greece and southern europe last summer, and no amount of solidarity funds can actually meet the damage and the cost which we are seeing as a result of these climate-change events. we are beginning our work as meps on the new package of climate change legislation. i very much hope this house will adopt a tough stance and implement and agree good legislation which really does tackle climate change so that we do not have to come back here and ask the commission for money to tackle these kinds of events.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in a sense i have an easy task following the last two speakers. i, too, wish to speak clearly in favour of the proposal from our rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr böge, but particularly in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the uk. a sum of eur 162 million: it seems to be uncontentious, but it is hugely important on several levels. as an mep, i represent the area of yorkshire and the humber, hit, as ms mcavan said, by floods last summer – cities, villages across our region devastated. many individuals, even in the village down the road from me, are still out of their homes. whilst we know that this payment may not change their situation overnight, it will go indirectly towards helping by relieving pressure on our government’s own budget. secondly, i am extremely pleased that our government made this application, and a successful application at that. there were times at the beginning when we were not sure that would happen, and i hope that, having gone through this experience, our government will now become a big fan of the solidarity fund in council and will persuade other member states accordingly. lastly, the british people, my constituents, will now understand that european solidarity has a tangible and practical meaning. and that will apply, i think, to all of us in this house. as climate change does bite, we may all be in the situation of representing those who are victims of such natural disasters and may have, therefore, to lay claim to european solidarity.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am pleased to know that britain should receive money to help us with the cost of last year’s floods. we are all very happy that the eu has generously come to the aid of a member state in difficulty. but it is not quite like that: first, the grant is only 3.5% of the cost of the damage – a gesture, as mr ashworth says – and, secondly, it is nine months after the event – and that is fast, they say! it would have been more helpful if we had known it would be forthcoming, and then reconstruction could have been planned accordingly. if there is one thing that gets up the nose of the british – when we realise that we are getting back a little of the cash we have paid into the european union – is that we are obliged to beg for it and then advertise the eu’s generosity. please, can we not rather keep our own money and then decide how to spend it ourselves? that way, it could be paid out more quickly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think i should present the compliments of my group on the policy strategy that president barroso has put forward for what, as he has said himself, will be an important and challenging year. the commission has produced a strategy which is good in its political, financial and management content, and it has avoided what we sometimes call in my country ‘end-of-term-itis’. of course, we need to concentrate to some extent on the weaknesses but, having heard mr nassauer, i would perhaps call them differences in points of emphasis rather than weaknesses, if i may put it that way. certainly, there is an issue about bridging the mandate gap. if i look at the internal market area, issues like the european patent, patient mobility and the european private company law project are all issues which will read across. president barroso has perhaps mentioned one or two of them, but we need to make sure that they flow through in the next mandate, because they are all essential parts of the internal market. in that respect i would have perhaps expected to see more of a theme emerging with regard to the need for what i would call financial security for our citizens in a world where we know there is financial turbulence at the moment and where people feel uncertain about the future – perhaps more of a theme in that respect. it is, of course, also the year of implementation of the treaty and, whilst we can welcome, and i do welcome, the concentration in the document on the implementation theme – and i think that the idea of working with the member states in future to ensure implementation of law across the board in a much more coordinated fashion is excellent – i would have preferred to see something in the document about that piece of legislation that will be so central to our citizens, the citizens’ initiative, but president barroso stole my thunder by mentioning it this morning, so that is good. but it is central, and we need to make sure that the commission brings forward the legislation to deal with that. also, perhaps, some thought should be given to the relationship with national parliaments. then, briefly with regard to external relations, can we have some read across with regard to external relations, energy and climate change – all of those issues? we know the commission is discussing them. they have a high priority, not only somewhere like the arctic, but in other areas of the globe as well.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i love coming here to the regulation factory. it is so amusing. i have just looked through the headings under the commission’s annual policy strategy and it starts with ‘growth and jobs’. to be honest, this place would be very much better served to talk about growth and jobs if at least more than 1% of this chamber had had any experience at all of commerce. i am a businessman and i can understand growth and i can understand jobs. sadly, the more you regulate, the more you legislate, the less likely you are to produce growth and jobs, which is why gdp growth in europe is positively dire and it is taking off in the rest of the world – china, india, the subcontinent. we are even beaten by north america. so, i would suggest that if we want growth and jobs, we get out of people’s faces and let them get on with it, without interference from this place. sustainable europe? well, fascinating, is it not? we talk about the global footprint, we talk about all this sort of nonsense, despite the fact that the globe has not actually warmed for 10 years – the science is thrown out of the window. if anybody wants to take any serious look at global science and global warming and climate change, they will see that, actually, most informed, not politically-biased, scientists regard it as fact that we will actually have a colder planet by 2050, not a warmer one. but that does not suit our book, does it? because we like to tax and we like to regulate. then we look at managed migration. well, dear, oh dear. as an englishman, i can tell you: managed migration? we have had a million people come into our tiny little overcrowded island in the last year. please, please, please, will this place, just for once, get real!
mr president, let me offer the commission two promises, for a change, from parliament. one is that we will work with it on the package on climate change to get an effective and workable package in place as quickly as we can. the second is that we will work to put in place, as quickly as possible, the new commissioner for health and, in so saying, let me ask the vice-president to send our good wishes to mr kyprianou and thank him for what he achieved during his time with us. thirdly, let me say that the reference to health in this is remarkably thin. it is true it talks about medical devices and other measures. however, i want to see the other measures, including that cross-border health promise, because if we do not have that in place quickly, then the courts will go on making policy for us in this area, and that is our job as politicians. so, please make sure that comes through as quickly as the very welcome proposal that is coming, i know, on mental health.
the next item is the verification of credentials of new members of the european parliament. mr gargani will be presenting an oral report on the matter, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs.
the mandates are hereby ratified.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see the minutes)
mr president, i represent london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world. in my city, we have a number of innovative universities, so you might think that i would be in favour of this report, but actually i voted against it. i would just like to explain why. thomas dolby, the lyricist, once sang, ‘she blinded me with science’. the band 2 unlimited once said, ‘digital revolution, technical solution; for some it only brings more and more confusion’. now, whatever the merits of the lyrics, i think that this applies to the thinking behind the eit. the commission is right that europe is successful in research but lacks innovation. but how do you get innovation? you do not arrive at innovation through more structures, more bricks and mortar. you do not arrive at innovation by duplicating existing effort. what we see here is the eit seeking to emulate the success of the massachusetts institute of technology in the united states without learning the successful business model behind the mit. that is why i voted against.
mr president, firstly i would just like to put the eit in a historical context. the first time i heard of the eit, we were talking about what we could do with this particular building, as parliament has two sites and if we were to vacate this site, what would this building in strasbourg be used for? the idea was to endow strasbourg with a world-class university. unfortunately, strasbourg already has a pretty good university, and they did not like that particular idea. strasbourg did not like losing this institution. we have had many debates on this here, even though realistically parliament should decide on its own seat. but this idea was born, and we have gone into this massive budget of hundreds of millions of euros which we are now going to spend, duplicating work that already goes on; you do wonder what the point is. is europe grasping for something that it does not need because it already has it? does it need this european brand over this expertise? are we just going to spend lots of money on bricks and mortar in a place where we could be doing much more coordinated stuff using the fantastic examples of oxford, cambridge and the other good universities across the european continent?
mr president, i am delighted that parliament is going to release eur 162 million from the european solidarity fund for aid following the flooding disasters last summer in my own region and elsewhere. clearly, as we know, this money is for infrastructure projects, for repairing roads, bridges, railways, hospitals and other institutions, but at the same time it will enable the government in the united kingdom to release money it would have had to spend on this in other ways. there are still thousands of people who are living in temporary accommodation and many shops and factories are closed. so i am delighted that money from the european union’s solidarity fund has been released and hopefully that the people of gloucestershire and elsewhere will benefit from this.
i intend to make an explanation of vote in writing, on behalf of the people of yorkshire and the humber, in the same vein as mr ford has just spoken.
mr president, in this report we do have reference to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, which we talked about slightly earlier. and part of my region did benefit, or will benefit, from that money, especially in north lincolnshire, where we suffered huge flooding. but i do wonder whether the people of lincolnshire would view this as a good use of money. we now pay so much money to the european union and we then have to beg for money back when we have a need ourselves. for every gbp 2 we get back, we have put gbp 5 into this pot in the first place. i do wonder whether we could spend that money better. i also have some major concerns, as i have stated before in explanations of vote, about how we do these draft amending budgets. huge sums of money are transferred between different budget lines and very, very few people have oversight over this. today, we are just transferring a couple of million euros here for galileo and a couple of million euros there, but in the past it has been hundreds of millions of euros. i do wonder whether that is the right parliamentary process to give us oversight over european taxpayers’ money.
mr president, i constantly and always vote against fisheries agreements made by this house and the commission for, i believe, a good reason. i will quote a little from the reports. the commission’s assessment for guinea-bissau found that it helped the viability of the community’s trawler and tuna industries in the atlantic ocean, and offered community vessels and industries that depend upon them a stable legal environment and medium-term visibility, but actually just had, it says, ‘a major impact’ on guinea-bissau’s budgetary and political stability. it does not matter where we are conducting these fisheries agreements, we are, essentially, stealing fish from those who could catch them locally, sell them locally, make money locally and therefore raise themselves from poverty. we create a solution where we actually pay for european fishermen to go and fish these waters mechanically, lift tons of fish and therefore ruin the fishing economies of these coastal countries. the ivory coast document talks about the amount of money that we are spending on doing this. we are talking about nearly eur 600 000 which we give to eu vessels to catch more than 7 000 t of tuna. if you speak to your average spaniard and ask them how many people are entering their country from the ivory coast – because the fishing boats that used to land fish in spain now actually transport hundreds, if not thousands, of illegal immigrants to the canary islands and elsewhere – you will see that we are actually making a bigger problem for ourselves and not creating a market-based solution, which we could do if we allowed those countries who have fishing rights to fish themselves and boost their own economies.
mr president, nothing would bring me more joy than to speak on sustainable european transport. the reason i abstained on this report is that, whilst it contains a decent amount of reasonable european policy, i do wonder if it is not best left to market solutions within individual member states as to how we can sort out traffic problems in london. i find it hard to believe that europe-wide cooperation and a coordination strategy will solve the problems of parking in nottingham or in leicester. yes, swapping best practice might, but we are talking about putting lots of money into a pot where we are now going to have committees that meet at commission and council level to try and think of policy. i think all these policies are best determined locally. therefore i abstained on the whole report.
in writing. − i welcome mr. parish’s report establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products. the proposals to provide a set of harmonised rules in various areas of the industry, such as private storage, import tariff quotas and safeguard measures are a positive move to clarify european agricultural policy. the increase in transparency and simplification of regulation within this sector is much needed and will directly benefit scottish farmers. i therefore voted in the favour of the report.
in writing. − the proposal to prolong the subsidy of flax and hemp is a procedural necessity to allow for adequate reflection and potential reform under the cap health check. it is for this reason that i support the report’s recommendations and voted accordingly.
in writing. − speaking as a representative of a country that was a recent victim of terrorism, mr costa’s report on common rules in the field of civil aviation security is one that i welcome. civil aviation security is something that concerns all member states and therefore requires common basic standards across the eu. regarding the funding of improvements to security measures, i feel an adequate compromise has been reached that allows sufficient scope for member states and users to share the cost. flexible financing rules will not only take account of the need to implement basic measures across europe, but will allow those airports deemed to be at greatest risk from terrorist activity to take further steps to counter the threat. i further welcome the proposal to reduce the frequency of re-screening for passengers arriving from third countries with equivalent safety standards to the eu. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of the compromise agreement reached in conciliation despite having reservations, not only about the financing of this legislation, but also at the attitude of the council of ministers during this whole procedure. firstly, the point has to be made that governments believe that they can introduce enhanced security measures in civil aviation and expect the industry and subsequently the passengers to pay for it. my view, and indeed it was the view of parliament, is that if member states insist on enhanced security measures, they should at least contribute towards the costs. secondly, my understanding of conciliation is where two parties compromise their views in order to reach an agreement. on this dossier the council not only failed to even consider compromise or indeed conciliation, but arrogantly set about accusing parliament of putting passenger security at risk. this is frankly unacceptable and leaves a bitter legacy for us all to remember for future conciliations. in the end i feel i am being blackmailed by the council in voting for this agreement so we can at least have enhanced security measures in place to protect the public. but my vote comes reluctantly and with anger.
in writing. − mr paasilinna’s report ‘establishing the european institute of innovation and technology’ is an important contribution to achieving the goals set out by the lisbon strategy. the concept of bringing together expertise from the private sector, research organisations and higher education institutions is a good one and an interesting pilot project. we must also ensure that the governing board of the eit is selected transparently to preserve the integrity of its work. parliament and the council should play a role in ensuring that transparency is upheld as well as assuring that the eit is accountable and that the autonomy of the knowledge and innovation communities involved is respected. i support this report.
in writing. − we are obviously in favour of britain receiving money from the european union as a contribution to the cost of floods last year. we therefore support this motion. however, we take this opportunity to place on record that we do not favour this arrangement under which britain must apply to the european union for assistance. the uk is a large net contributor to the eu budget. rather than having to plead for a small amount to be returned to us, we should prefer to retain our funds and decide for ourselves how they are spent.
in writing. − i am delighted that the european parliament has approved the award of eur 170m of flood aid from the eu solidarity fund to help towards the clean-up operations after the floods in my country, and especially in my region, last summer. the floods affected hundreds of homes and businesses and caused misery to thousands of people. the fact that this is the second largest payment ever from the eu solidarity fund is indicative of the huge financial and personal cost paid by the victims. this money will hopefully go some way towards covering those costs. as mep for one of the regions most affected, i can say that every contribution is welcome. this gesture of solidarity from the rest of europe will be most welcome in my constituency.
in writing. − following the devastating floods experienced in britain last year, i would like to salute mr böge’s work on the mobilisation of the european union’s solidarity fund report. the money proposed will benefit all those affected, including businesses. i therefore welcomed the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − in kyösti virrankoski’s report ‘amending budget no1/2008’ regarding the solidarity fund, we can see that the eu is prepared to put fresh money into the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in the uk. i hope this is something that we will look to do for other member states that are victims of natural disasters, such as greece. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − british conservative meps voted in favour of mr albertini’s own-initiative report on sustainable european transport on the basis that it provides a clear policy framework that will increase efficiency and tackle transport’s burgeoning impact on climate change. however, conservatives remain concerned that the report’s call for further commission proposals on internalising external costs should not begin until the impact assessment is fully completed, and the parliament has properly debated the issue. we are also keen to see that this policy option, if it is introduced, should be applied uniformly across all transport modes, so that no market distortion takes place.
in writing. − i welcome the recommendations contained within gabriele albertini’s report on sustainable european transport policy. safe and affordable means of mobility should be a right afforded to all eu citizens. indeed, the sustainability of such transport is also a very pressing issue. in encouraging technological innovation and market-based instruments, such as the emissions trading scheme or tax incentives, particularly in large cities and environmentally sensitive areas, there is an opportunity to ensure that means of transport and infrastructure are used efficiently. i support the call for increased investment in infrastructure and intelligent transport systems to tackle issues such as congestion. i voted for the report’s recommendations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i shall be no exception in congratulating our rapporteur on a solid piece of work, which i think is best viewed as part of a wider picture of how we ensure long-term stability for europe’s farmers and growers. i have two points to make. we accept and we welcome the proposals from the commission for quotas to be done away with by 2015. we would, however, like to see a system of production controls, and we disagree with the point in the report that there should be a voluntary opt-in mechanism for the member states. we in the uk in particular have seen voluntary modulation which, of course, is not voluntary at all for the farmers who are stuck with it, and we disagree with that principle. we do not believe that asymmetric deregulation makes sense. in the longer term as well, i would stress to our commission colleagues that one of the major points, as we see a much more liberal and much freer market in milk products, will be the impact of competition law on how farmers, in particular, have to deal with long-term private contracts and the abuse of certain producers and purchasers, in particular, within the milk market. but, on the whole, this is a solid piece of work and we are happy to broadly support it.
mr president, first of all i welcome the recommendation that the rapporteur has put before us here today of 2% for the 12 months as a voluntary measure. i think it is a measured position to take. i am opposed to opening the floodgates on production as this, i believe, would solve nothing. let us see how the market develops over the next 12 months. then we can come back next year, re-visit the situation and take a much broader view. everyone talks about a ‘soft landing’ for quotas but no one can tell me what that soft landing will be. it is a word that we use – the president-in-office has used it and the commissioner has used it – but what are we really talking about here when we hit 2013? i know that it is a long way away, but there are many dairy farmers out there at the moment who are really wondering what the situation is going to be as we lead into that time? so, while the returns for the dairy sector have changed dramatically during 2007, we cannot guarantee that this will continue forever. let us be very honest about it. it was not what the commission did. it was not what we, the politicians, did. it was not what any national government did or even the dairy sector did. it was market forces in the world that drove market price up and that is exactly what happened. cereal prices have been driving the price up. but we have also got to understand that, coming into the next 12 months, the cost of cereals, the cost of fertiliser, the high cost of energy, the forage cost this summer, is going to mean that lots of the extra money that has gone to the dairy sector will in actual fact be absorbed in these extra costs. so let us not get carried away in believing that everything is so rosy and everything is wonderful in the dairy sector – because it is not. the extra 2% will produce a substantial amount. but i do agree with the commissioner – let us not make the situation more complicated. let us make it easier for the producer. the milk and dairy farming sector, regardless of where you are in europe, is the backbone of the small family farm structure, and we must support it.
mr president, i share the concern of many in this house about a definitive increase in milk quotas. i think the point we have arrived at requires the asking of fundamental questions, which includes the fact that, if we have a prevailing underproduction and sub-quota situation in europe, then what really is the underlying justification for increasing quotas? this year, we expect three million tonnes’ under-usage, so what is the great rush in this regard? secondly, in terms of the much talked-of soft landing, we need to have particular regard for those regions which have built their structure and their strategy supplying other regions which are currently limited in their production – regions such as my own constituency, which supplies across the border to the republic of ireland. in terms of a soft landing, we need to find a long-term strategy and alternative outlets for regions such as this.
mr president, i would like to thank ms jeggle very much for getting a difficult report together. can i just quickly say that ‘faint heart never won fair maiden’, and i think we need to be much bolder here. milk quotas are like a pressure cooker: you cannot keep the pressure on right to the end and then take it off, because it just bursts. i am quite clear what a soft landing means, and that is to increase quotas significantly before we get to 2015, so i very much welcome this 2%. i would say to the commission and to the council that we should be much bolder when we get to 2010. let us not look just to 1%, let us look to 2% and make sure that we do have a genuine soft landing for milk quotas. young farmers and new entrants have all been restricted over the years. now is our opportunity to give them this production. at last milk trade is increasing in the world... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr goepel for his report. i believe he has brought together the whole committee and parliament in a very good report. i would suggest that the reform of agriculture is evolution, not revolution, and we are carrying on very much with the fischler reforms. i welcome much of what the commission has put forward, along with mr goepel’s report. i think that one of the keys to the reform was to reduce bureaucracy to farmers and we still have some ground to cover. commissioner, yes, we are in the same shop but i think some of us believe we could spend the money on different things and that is probably what the arguments are now about. food security has come back on the agenda again very strongly, especially with the far east in particular now buying more and more food. cereals have gone up almost two or two and a half times in price, so i believe we can start to re-evaluate as we move forward with reform how we spend the money. we have to look again at modulation. in my opinion we have to get rid of set-aside once and for all, because this common agricultural policy is a policy that is not supposed to be linked to production. you cannot possibly carry on with set-aside which is exactly that. we have to look at milk quotas and abolishing them by 2015. decoupled payments: that is the whole crux of the reform, and you are quite right to push that forward. again, i think that now is the time when agriculture can start to look towards a market-oriented price. yes, the common agricultural policy is necessary, but also the market is there and we should take much more advantage of it.
mr president, i also congratulate our rapporteur on an excellent compromise package before us today. i would like to draw attention, in particular, to three measures which were our successful amendments, which are to be particularly welcomed. in paragraph 21 of the report, we recognise that decoupling direct payments has largely been successful, and we are firmly of the view that should be rolled out. yes, it has to be done properly and sensitively, but it should be pushed forward. in paragraphs 37 and 38 we explicitly recognise that set-aside is an anachronism and should be fully swept away, and where there are spin-off environmental benefits, they be properly dealt with under pillar 2. in paragraphs 86 to 91 we recognise the importance of niche products for europe’s agriculture internationally. i could certainly produce a shopping list of quality scottish products for our commissioner, so i would be grateful for a few words from her on how she plans to take that forward, with the promotion of a european mark for international quality.
a uachtaráin, is ag am an-tábhachtach d’fheirmeoirí ar fud fad an ae a thagann an tuarascáil seo os ár gcomhair. mar a deir mo chomhghleacaí bean mcguinness, feicimid ag cainteanna na heagraíochta domhanda trádála mar atá an coimisinéir mandelson réidh le leasanna feirmeoirí agus leasanna ár bpobail tuaithe a íobairt – ní ar mhaithe leis an tríú domhan ach ar mhaithe le cluiche margála idirnáisiúnta. sa scrúdú sláinte seo, aontaím go gcaithfear cothromas éigin a fháil idir rudaí a dhéanamh níos simplí agus níos éifeachtaí agus cobhsaíocht éigean a thabhairt d’fheirmeoirí agus iad ag cur bia ar fáil dúinn agus ag cothú na tuaithe. má chuirtear i bhfeidhm go cothrom é, ba chóir fáilte a chur roimh theorainn ar íocaíochtaí móra d’fheirmeoirí móra nó do chomhlachtaí móra mar chéim ar shiúl ó chomhbheartas talmhaíochta atá mar chuidiú d’úinéirí móra talún amháin. tá sé tábhachtach chomh maith nach gcuirtear ach feirmeoirí gníomhacha san áireamh do theidlíochtaí íocaíochtaí. ba chóir go mbeadh comhbheartas talmhaíochta ...(tháinig an tuachtarán trasna ar aitheasc an chainteora)
mr president, any health check needs measurement and assessment. for the cap, i suggest that the measure is funding and that the assessors are the auditors. does the court of auditors find the cap to be healthy, when 28.9% of single farm payments are erroneous? does it find it healthy for the cap to fund farmers not to grow food? does it find it healthy to turn farmland over to biofuels, just when there is a world shortage of cereals? does it find the cap healthy when genuine farmers – in the uk at least – are struggling to make a living? does it know that farmers in new zealand are not now subsidised but are doing very well and that only 3% of them went under when subsidies were withdrawn? since it sounds to me that the cap is very unhealthy, is it not time to turn off the life-support machine and let european farmers make their own way?
mr president, there is much in this report that i agree with. there are four quick points i would like to make. firstly, the theory of decoupling is very good but its practice has been disappointing for some in failing to command the higher market returns for producers that were promised. secondly, we must sustain sufficient instruments to safeguard against market and supply crises. imbalances in the supply chain endanger the cap’s aim of secure food supply. food security is impossible without guaranteed economic sustainability for producers. thirdly, we can do more on cap simplification to reduce the bureaucratic burden and, yes, to decriminalise farmers who make honest mistakes through minor breaches. fourthly, unused agri-budget allocations on market management measures should be available for article 69 aid to strengthen eu agriculture, particularly where production is marginal and to deal with situations, as in my constituency, where there are high numbers of farmers over 55 years of age with no prospect of alternative employment.
mr president, mr goepel’s excellent report will lay the foundations for a sound agricultural policy for the future, but there is growing evidence that food security is going to rise to the top of our political agenda, as mr parish said. such is the panic caused by climate change that politicians and planners are in danger of creating a bigger global problem than they set out to resolve. the rush to biofuels is taking so much land out of agricultural production that some experts are now predicting imminent global famine. likewise, vast tracts of the amazonian and indonesian rainforests are being torn up to make way for biofuel crops like palm oil and for food crops like soya, releasing millions of tonnes of co2 into the atmosphere and threatening to destroy our global air conditioning system. deforestation now accounts for around 18% of the world’s total greenhouse gas emissions and highlights the insanity of current policies. greed, instead of care for the environment, has become the defining feature of our strategy for tackling climate change, and the race to biofuels is potentially threatening the lives of millions of people, as the global population soars from its present six billion to an estimated nine billion by 2050. an extra six million people are born every month. by 2030, the world population will have expanded by such an extent that we will require a 50% increase in food production to meet anticipated demand. by 2080, global food production would need to double! but the reality is that an area the size of ukraine is being taken out of agricultural food production every year due to drought and as a direct consequence of climate change. global food production is in decline rather than expanding. that is why food security is now top of the agenda.
mr president, i would like, first of all, to welcome the report by mr goepel and thank him for his hard work and that of all the people involved in this. this is only the beginning of the process as we look to the future of the common agricultural policy during this year. this is a very important step in this process and we now look forward to the commission proposals in the near future. the position of the second pillar of rural development and what level of modulation is set will certainly be central, i believe, to the long-term success or otherwise of the future of the common agricultural policy. but i have to say that never has it been more important to ensure a level playing field throughout the member states, and we cannot allow different levels of percentages among the member states. decoupling has, to a large extent, been successful. i do not think we can go back on that. cross-compliance has been unhelpful and bureaucratic and can be improved. and food security must be at the top of the list.
the debate is closed.
the next item is question time (b6-0013/2008). i am sorry for those colleagues who have been waiting for this to start and, clearly, we will have to look at why we are so late in starting today.
it is the commission that decides who answers which questions.
ms harkin, your point is noted and we will do what we can. the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question no 32 by stavros arnaoutakis (h-0075/08) subject: negative impact on business of the international credit crisis the current international credit crisis, which is leading the us economy into recession, is slowing down the rate of growth at world level. the effects on the european economy and business are substantial. greek and other european companies are already coming under considerable pressure from the increase in imports from non-eu countries whose cheaper products are constantly gaining ground on the market. at the same time, a fall in european exports is forecast for the current year. what measures will the commission take to provide european companies with effective support to survive this crisis and become more commercially competitive at international level? which sectors of commerce and which european products does it consider to be most vulnerable? which should be protected as a matter of priority and how can that be achieved?
while we change to commissioner figeľ for the next question, may i take the opportunity to return to ms harkin’s earlier point of order. i have caused some enquiries to be made and my first point would be that we are dealing with question time to the commission, not to a particular commissioner. the commission has looked at the point you raised and has consulted dg trade and dg agri and in their estimation, i am afraid, your question falls within the competence of commissioner fischer boel. i cannot enter into debate, but i pass on that information to you so that you know the reasoning.
question no 33 by manolis mavrommatis (h-0086/08) subject: legal downloads of songs from the internet on 28 january 2008, an agreement was signed between the three biggest record companies (emi, universal music and warner music) to make 25 million songs available on the qtrax website for free downloading by users. while downloading is in progress, however, users have to watch the advertising on the site. this website is available to residents of europe and the usa and it is estimated that the site’s creators will soon recoup their investment. given that there is no eu legal framework covering online music services - as, following the recent recommendation, the commission does not intend to propose a legally binding framework - and that this agreement was made largely to safeguard the rights and profits of the record companies affected by illegal downloading, in what way are the rights of the artists protected within this framework? in view of the fact that this website is also aimed at european citizens, does the commission consider that competition in music services will be undermined since this agreement involves only three record companies which will make their songs available on the internet free of charge and will enjoy the profits from advertising on the same website?
question no 34 by avril doyle (h-0090/08) subject: carbon tariffs on imports? on 23 january 2008 the european commission put forward a far-reaching package of proposals com(2008)0016 that will deliver on the european union's ambitious commitments to fight climate change and promote renewable energy up to 2020 and beyond. central to the strategy is a strengthening and expansion of the emissions trading system (eu ets), the eu's key tool for cutting emissions cost-effectively. emissions from the sectors covered by the system will be cut by 21% by 2020 compared with levels in 2005. a single eu-wide cap on ets emissions will be set, and free allocation of emission allowances will be progressively replaced by auctioning of allowances by 2020. under any international agreement, which would ensure that competitors in other parts of the world bear a comparable cost, the risk of carbon leakage could well be negligible. however, such an agreement is not yet in place. in light of the above, can the commission comment as to why carbon tariffs on imports into the eu were excluded from the eu ets? secondly, can the commission further indicate the degree of support in the college of commissioners on the issue of carbon tariffs on products from countries that have no co2 reduction legislation in place? has the wto a view on this?
question no 35 by colm burke (h-0092/08) subject: intercultural dialogue in eu in this year of intercultural dialogue in the eu the commission has planned many events. an emphasis should be placed on involving young people in the events of this year so that they may benefit from the rich cultural diversity in the eu. what specific measures does the commission envisage in order to involve young people in the european year of intercultural dialogue?
the next question on the paper was by mr higgins. i am sorry to say that i cannot accept the question, because he is not in the chamber. i know that you would like to work in cooperation. unfortunately, the exchange was not notified to us previously and, therefore, according to our rules, i cannot take it. i am very sorry i cannot take it and i must give priority to those members who are present in the chamber.
question no 37 by bernd posselt (h-0100/08) subject: german-czech-austrian cultural cooperation what trilateral or bilateral cross-border cultural cooperation projects has the commission supported between the czech republic, germany and austria during the past year, and does it see any possibilities for assisting such projects on a significant scale in 2008?
in view of our time constraints we will now move to the questions to commissioner mandelson. questions 38 to 40 will therefore be answered in writing.
i made the point at the beginning of question time that we were running late, and that this was extremely unfortunate. i will try to find out what the reasons were that we seemed to have so many debates before that had caused that late running. i take that very seriously, having responsibility for question time. now, as far as your own question is concerned, i had noted that there are other members in this chamber who have waited patiently throughout for their questions to be answered and did not leave for other engagements. i know that we all have difficult calendars and agendas, but i have had, therefore, to follow the rules strictly and give priority to those members who have stayed in the chamber. i am sorry, but the rules are quite clear.
question no 41 by georgios papastamkos (h-0076/08) subject: settlement of dispute between the eu and the usa concerning gmos in the world trade organisation on 11 january 2008, the reasonable period of time (rpt) expired for eu compliance with the ruling of the wto dispute settlement body concerning measures for the authorisation and marketing of genetically modified organisms (gmos). according to statements by the us government, the usa agreed with the eu temporarily to suspend the procedure to apply trade sanctions 'in order to provide the eu an opportunity to demonstrate meaningful progress on the approval of biotech products.' the us also expressed its displeasure at the french government's intention to activate the safeguard clause to prohibit the cultivation of a variety of gm maize, as other eu member states have already done. what is the commission's scope for negotiation to achieve an 'amicable' settlement of this matter and avoid reprisals against the eu while, nevertheless, enabling the eu to maintain a strict regulatory framework in relation to gmos?
question no 42 by bart staes (h-0079/08) subject: in-depth evaluation of economic partnership agreements acp governments which have agreed to liberalise trade in goods have insufficient negotiating power on matters of real concern to them. while they have to make major concessions in the epas, europe is not entering into any binding commitments on important issues such as improving the rules of origin, the allocation of subsidies or the extension of development aid. does the commission agree that these countries should be given more time to arrive at properly negotiated epas, that they should have better support in boosting their negotiating capacity, and that an in-depth evaluation and review on the existing agreements – which are still far from being the ‘development instruments’ they should be – is therefore necessary! question no 43 by thijs berman (h-0080/08) subject: economic partnership agreements the expiry of the 1 january 2008 deadline regarding economic partnership agreements with acp countries has given rise to considerable uncertainty in these countries. agreements concluded on exemption clauses for exports, safeguard clauses, improved rules of origin, the allocation of subsidies or the extension of development aid are often inadequate and therefore enjoy little support in the countries concerned. is the commission prepared to carry out an in-depth evaluation of the existing agreements? what specific measures will it undertake to that end, and within what time-framework? question no 44 by claude moraes (h-0085/08) subject: impact measurement of economic partnership agreements the commission has recently agreed a full economic partnership agreement (epa) with the caribbean, as well as a series of interim deals meant to eventually lead to full epas with other countries or regions. the progress made so far was presented very clearly to the european parliament development committee this january, and we acknowledge the hard work which has been put in from the commissioner´s side. you also pointed out the tasks ahead, however. among others, you mentioned that it will be vital to find ways to monitor the implementation and impact of new agreements. does the commission have any rough estimates at this point of the positive impact of the latest agreements on the income of african farmers, as well as on the final prices for european consumers? how does the commission plan to go about the development of techniques to monitor and measure implementation and impact? question no 45 by david martin (h-0122/08) subject: epascan the commission provide the latest information on epas? question no 46 by sarah ludford (h-0124/08) subject: economic partnership agreements why have you not managed to convince critics that epas are fair to developing countries? question no 47 by hélène goudin (h-0153/08) subject: partnership agreements with developing countries most acp countries have signed economic partnership agreement (epas) with the eu. a whole series of voluntary organisations do not consider that the agreements will attain the stated objectives, i.e. promoting economic development in the contracting countries. the commission's spokesperson has stated that epas could in future be put up for debate and thus be renegotiated. on the other hand, the trade commissioner has distanced himself from the possibility of renegotiating the existing agreements. can the commission clarify the situation in this regard? will developing countries which have signed partnership agreements with the eu be able to renegotiate them?
economic partnership agreements (epas) were originally conceptualised as trade and development agreements going beyond pure market access. could the commissioner comment on growing concerns that the interim partnership agreements are creating growing trade enmity amongst african nations, the example of kenya being one? kenyan support for these agreements has been viewed by its neighbours as undermining the continent’s zeal for a more radical position on epas.
would you accept that, apart from making the acp-eu relationship wto-compatible, one of the key aims of the economic partnership agreements is to ensure that south-south trade increases? in that context, would you examine the possibility of increasing and better targeting our aid for trade to make sure that the benefits of south-south trade are realised through these epas?
as a non-specialist in this area – unlike, probably, many of the other questioners – i am just interested to know how, and rather puzzled as to why, the opponents of epas made so much of the running in the press. why was it not possible to get across better the advantages of epas? is it simply that those opposing them did not accept the benefits of trade liberalisation, which i do, and just wanted to keep protectionism? why is it that the commission and others were not, perhaps, able to get their voices heard sufficiently in the press?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.55 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, let us be clear: this biomass thing is driven by the alleged global warming effect of man-derived carbon dioxide emissions. forget carbon footprints. co2 is a natural constituent of the atmosphere; it is not some kind of devil potion, as is misleadingly made out in portraying the situation as an ‘inconvenient truth’. this hyperactive film is not proof at all; it is not even truth. it is a theory and a very long way from proof. you see, as a chemistry teacher – and i bet there are few of those in this assembly – i know what it takes to go from hypothesis to theory to chemical law. i do not go by the theatrical or didactic rantings of a us politician on the make. fortunately, we now have the manhattan declaration, released by 500 scientists last week, which says there is no convincing evidence that co2 from modern industry is causing climate change. it reminds us that the global climate has always changed and always will. does no one here appreciate that the earth we know is not in a final state but in continuous dynamic development? to tax us all to achieve the unobtainable and unneeded is political greed. to turn over farmland to produce biofuels when populations are increasing and there is a world shortage of cereals is madness. to grow biofuels by cutting down whole areas of rainforest, burning the timber where it falls to get a few years’ worth of nitrates and then moving on, gang-raping the precious forests, is criminal. so what is causing the current minimal degree of global warming? to paraphrase former president clinton: it’s the sun, stupid!
on behalf of the ni group. – madam president, i welcome the recognition of the potential for a considerable increase in biogas production. it ticks the boxes of helping livestock farmers tap into an alternative income stream and, at the same time, makes a worthwhile contribution to the environment by solving problems allied to the disposal of agricultural waste. a third distinct advantage for biogas is that, unlike biofuels, it need not hinder food security but, rather, help it. therein is a key advantage for biogas: using waste rather than crops, it does not discourage essential feedstuff production or food production itself. the fledgling biogas sector needs meaningful start-up support with a uniform support instrument across the eu rather than the sporadic patchwork of support which we have at the moment. extra research support to exploit second-generation biogas as a biofuel is a forward-looking necessity. so there is much that can and should be done to promote biogas and, at the same time, make agriculture more sustainable. i believe in the eu we grossly miscalculated in over-indulging biofuels. let us not compound that error by undervaluing biogas.
madam president, i thank mr tabajdi very much for his report. i, like many other speakers, welcome this report on biogas because it has a very important role to play. in agriculture in particular a lot of waste is produced that could be made very effectively into biogas. waste food and waste vegetables could also be mixed with it to create electricity. therefore, it is likely to be very efficient. in fact, use of biogas is considered to be one of the most efficient ways of making electricity by ‘bio-’ means. one thing i would say to mr tabajdi is that we do not need a directive specifically for bio-energy: it can be encompassed in a renewable energy directive. i would urge him not to pursue that. i would also say that, as far as farmers are concerned, one of the things they are now greatly involved with is the nitrates directive. they also need a lot of storage on their farms for waste. slurry could be contained on the farm and could be changed into biogas, and the waste from that could then be spread on the land. as the commissioner said, it kills two birds with one stone. ms mcguinness said that one of the things we need to tackle – probably not at european but at member state level – is that biogas plants are always wonderful things as long as they are somewhere else and not next door to you. this is something that we suffer from greatly in europe: it always happens somewhere else. finally, i should like to reply to mr clark – though i think he has left – who asked whether or not there is global warming. i was talking to an eminent israeli scientist who said that there could be global warming or there need not be, but can we wait for 20 years to know whether we were right or not?
madam president, i wish to begin by adding my congratulations to the rapporteur on a timely report. energy security, rising energy costs and climate change are perhaps the greatest challenges facing europe in the 21st century. one thing is clear: europe must become more self-reliant in its energy needs and ensure the security of its energy supply. to do this will mean more diversification into alternative energy sources and a heavier reliance on new technologies and renewables. in my own constituency it is estimated that we import a staggering 96% of our energy. many of you will agree with me that the emerging market for biomass and biofuels presents many new opportunities for the farmer. it is an increasingly competitive marketplace: farmers in my constituency of northern ireland could find many benefits from looking to alternative uses of their land to create new business opportunities in the production of biofuels. while i am under no illusions that biofuels and biomass energy are the only answer to europe’s growing energy concerns, i am sure that they have an important role to play in easing them.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr turmes for his excellent work as rapporteur and for his close cooperation with colleagues. energy statistics are like the steel rods holding up a building: you cannot see them from the outside but without them the whole building collapses. at the moment we are constructing brand new ways of doing energy. the eu has agreed new targets on energy efficiency and renewables and co2 emissions. but, as we know from past eu efforts in these areas, it is easier to set targets than it is to implement them, and the only way we can tell whether or not we are doing what we set out to do is by measuring actions statistically. we now need statistics focused on energy demand as much as on energy supply. we need detailed statistics on renewables as well as on fossil fuels. we need improved statistics on nuclear energy, collected and collated at european level, and we need these statistics to be processed much more quickly so that we have early feedback. it is particularly important to make sure that statistics are available well in advance of march energy summits. finally, i welcome the fact that peat remains firmly in the fossil fuel category. in the uk, peat land is regarded as precious habitat to be protected. peat regenerates so slowly that it would be quite inappropriate to regard it as a renewable resource.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this week’s council takes place somewhere along the road between despair and hope. although the major difficulties seem to be overcome, the lisbon treaty is not yet ratified, and questions linger over some of its provisions. uncertainties abound about the political direction of russia, turkey and some of our neighbours in the middle and near east. economic growth is slowing, haunted by the impact on gdp of past banking-sector crises in sweden or finland or hungary or spain, to say nothing of argentina or japan. it makes concerted action by our central banks this morning all the more welcome. beyond these considerations, the major global challenges of population growth and migration, of international crime and terrorism, of climate change and energy security continue to weigh on the minds of our policy makers. the urgent implementation of the commission’s proposals to tackle climate change is incumbent on the member states and on this house. the contours of the challenge are wide. the report from the high representative on the impact of climate change on security and stability shows us that there is a real and immediate concern, with the danger of military implications, including the use – sometimes discussed – of nato as an instrument of energy security. yet, blinded by short-term economic thinking, some of our member states are already busy trying to limit their commitments to the commission’s proposals on climate change. look at the draft council conclusions – paragraph 18 – and see some of the weasel words that have been inserted. these twin dangers carry the threat of a retreat into a fortress europe. it is only by increasing internal solidarity that we can avoid the trap that member states fall into, such as choosing south stream over nabucco. it is only by extending solidarity beyond our shores that we can enjoy peace around the mediterranean, that mare nostrum, or around the caspian sea. einstein was right when he said that peace cannot be kept by force, it can only be achieved by understanding. we also need to lead by example. i hope that in the council conclusions we will see a commitment by national governments and the european union to cut energy use in our own government and institutional buildings and in our car fleets, with binding targets to achieve that. there have been stern warnings from the ipcc and others of the cost of inaction. we must act and we can because, despite the strong headwinds, the economic fundamentals of the euro area economy are strong, as the president of the commission says, with domestic demand and exports continuing to grow – a sign that the lisbon strategy is working and must be pursued. we hear what people are saying in this house. mr wurtz’s group was leading a protest about the threat to 12 000 jobs at unilever. mr schulz wrote a letter to 27 heads of state and government calling for a change in economic direction, binding social standards and greater social protection. yet these actions ignore the reality of what is happening in the global economy where, as more and more countries have opened their economies, the global ratio of trade to gdp has grown faster than total output. half of our income now comes from trade and even developing countries now account for a third of world trade. the integration of the world economy is proving that it is not a zero-sum game. while europe’s share of that economy may be shrinking, the overall growth means that we continue to create jobs and wealth. that is why we have created 6.5 million new jobs in the last two years. my group has long argued this and we are pleased that it has been recognised by mr jacques delors and mr poul nyrup rasmussen in the manifesto that they drafted for the pse group, which was adopted in oporto some 15 months ago. mr schulz, if there is an ostrich in this room, it is not to be found in seat 21 [mr barroso’s seat]; it is to be found in seat 6 [mr schulz’s seat]. i think that explains why the pse group has lost its former role as the motor of this institution. the european council must show more urgency in achieving its research and development targets. it must boost the market for venture capital and the mobility of researchers to foster innovation. it must improve transparency and supervision in the banking sector to ward off danger. mr lenarčič, you must pay attention to social cohesion and environmental stability but you must do so secure in the knowledge that markets are the most powerful tool we have to improve living standards. (applause)
mr president, this european council takes place with great economic uncertainty in the air. the summit will consider an update of the lisbon agenda, which has only two years to run. it is vital that heads of government do not indulge in self-congratulation. there are real threats to free trade and to the fundamental principles of free and open competition that must underpin the european union. in that context i was delighted to read the recent remarks of the commission president in the financial times, in which he raised the ugly spectre of growing protectionism in europe. when asked if such sentiment was on the rise, he said, ‘yes, and i fear this rise is not only in europe but all over. political forces in europe that were traditionally pro-market are today – let us put it elegantly – more prudent’. so there are rising protectionist threats, and not least when we hear the rhetoric from across the atlantic from two of the front-runners in the presidential race. let us be clear, europe has much more to gain from globalisation than it has to lose. indeed, the economist recently lamented the anti-globalisation language used by some european leaders. the reality, it said, was that european citizens are winners from globalisation, with cheap imports, low inflation and low interest rates. and, notwithstanding the emergence of india and china, the eu’s share of world exports rose, albeit slightly, between 2000 and 2006. in france, where protectionist rhetoric is perhaps the most marked, a recent report stated that only 3.4% of jobs that were lost in 2005 could be blamed on so-called offshoring. so we should get all this in perspective and back the commission president in his strong stance on the matter. europe will only succeed in international markets if its improves its competitiveness, radically reforms its labour markets and cracks down hard on bad business regulation, both at eu level and national level. the economist asked the question: will today’s politicians ever be frank enough to tell the people that globalisation is good for europe and for them? president barroso has been frank; it is time for eu leaders to back him.
mr president, at last year’s spring council, eu leaders signed up to a ‘20% by 2020’ target for energy efficiency, but delivery of this target remains sluggish. parliament’s report on the energy efficiency action plan exposed major failures in implementation of energy efficiency legislation. in january, the commission’s first assessment of national energy efficiency action plans spoke of the gap between the political commitment to energy efficiency and actual delivery. energy efficiency underpins all the eu’s targets on co2 emissions, on renewables, on security of supply and on the lisbon agenda – all the things we have been discussing this morning. therefore, i would be grateful if the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission would indicate what this year’s spring council intends to do to improve performance on energy efficiency.
mr president, the ratification of the renamed eu constitution threatens the democratic legitimacy of the european project itself. the peoples of france and holland rejected the constitution, yet it has now come back with a new name and with what angela merkel called ‘cosmetic changes’. now the institutions and the member states, including the labour government in the uk, are dishonestly pretending that these cosmetic changes justify breaking their promise of a referendum. they do not, and the pretence that they do is a huge breach of faith with the people. in britain a campaign group has just undertaken an independently monitored postal ballot in 10 westminster constituencies. over 150 000 voters responded: 88% wanted a referendum; 89% opposed the treaty. in six constituencies more people voted for a referendum than voted for their current member of parliament. the people have spoken. the treaty cannot be legitimate without their consent. the european council must listen. we must have a referendum.
mr president, i welcome the recognition by both the council and the commission recently that climate change is not just an environment policy but also a security and humanitarian policy. there is nothing new in that of course. the stern report indicated that some 200 million people could be displaced by climate change, creating huge migratory pressures. it is for that reason that we should always bear in mind that global warming is actually the poor suffering the consequences of the actions of the rich. i would hope that in our discussion on climate change we can tie our climate change objectives to our development policy objectives. we cannot act in isolation in this area. of course the poor within the european union also suffer. that is why any policy on energy has to ensure that member states have a policy on energy poverty because too many people are suffering because of the rise in energy prices. we need to address that. but most importantly in this summit, we have to ensure that we have action rather than simply words. the commission set out a programme in 2007. two thirds of that has reached the light of day. where is the other third? member states commit themselves to targets which they do not reach. we have to focus on action. i also welcome the work being done on better regulation and the help for small businesses. however, we must put much more emphasis on looking at transposition and evaluating how legislation has been implemented and if it has achieved what we have set out to achieve. if it does not achieve what is required, there is no point in having the legislation in the first place.
mr president, this debate on the summit is an opportunity to talk to the council about what they are doing to implement the whole of the lisbon agenda, so i want primarily to focus my remarks to the council today. i am delighted once again to welcome the slovenian minister, whom i had the pleasure of meeting in slovenia recently, and to thank the slovenian presidency for their engagement with this process. i am really pleased that the draft conclusions already published show that the council is continuing to focus on the four key areas of the lisbon strategy. however, i have to say – and i direct my remarks to the president of the commission – that, although i know he is talking to mr špidla, one of the problems is that commission keeps reinventing and complicating things. we now have 10 objectives from the commission, which are mentioned in passing here, but in fact we need to focus on what the priorities are. i want to focus on what i think is the key to what we are talking about: unlocking business potential. it is right that you put that there, but what are member states doing about it? my colleague, mr hökmark, talked earlier about the transposition of the services directive. i say to the council: take the services directive and its implementation and what you are intending to do and spread it to all areas relating to unlocking business potential. with the services directive you are required to screen all aspects of your domestic legislation that discriminate against companies wanting to offer services across the single market. it cannot be just service companies: it should be all companies of all sizes. i ask you to take that commitment forward and to do that. the second crucial thing in the services directive is that for the first time individual member states are required to provide information to companies that want to access the single market and encourage them to use that vast opportunity. creating a single market is a shared responsibility. we are working very hard here to deliver the framework, but how hard are you really working in the member states to ensure that companies take advantage of that? that is the way that we will deliver the jobs and growth that this economy desperately needs.
mr president, following on from ms mcguinness’s reference to the ratification of the lisbon treaty in ireland, i comment that in my own country, the united kingdom, good progress is being made in both houses of parliament and it is anticipated that the united kingdom will ratify the treaty in good order shortly. i do not wish to score points against political opponents, but it was disappointing to those british conservatives who favour the treaty that the british liberal party abstained. however, i am sure mr watson could explain the reasons for that. at this spring council there will presumably be reference to the recent change of government in russia. it is very important – and increasingly in this house – that the european union has a common foreign policy with regard to the russian federation and to some of the proposals, for example the nord stream pipeline. again, i do not want to anticipate, as this house will be debating the russian elections on thursday. however, the motion for a resolution, which apparently we will be able to approve, raises concerns about the treatment of the electoral observers and about what happened to those opposition candidates denied the ability to stand in those elections, and calls for the immediate release of some 50 demonstrators who were arrested in a violent way by russian interior ministry men. i hope the council will take this extremely seriously. obviously, we wish to congratulate president medvedev and prime minister putin. we look for good and harmonious relations, but we cannot have them if this house and this european union is divided. germans, dutch, british, poles – all of us – must have a common view about our relations with the russian federation and about how we go about ensuring the energy supply. we do not have to approve nord stream; we might well approve the amber pipeline. i look forward with great interest to the council’s conclusions in relation to the eu common foreign policy and common foreign energy policy, and in particular to good relations with the russian federation.
mr president, i will be very brief, but since mr schulz mentioned my name, let me at least say the following: mr schulz, i had no wish in what i was saying in any way to attack you personally, but i think we have a serious debate here about how to create competitive economies and how to stimulate competitive economies consistent with social cohesion and environmental stability. i do not believe that the way to create those economies is to argue that the market does not work because it does not produce the goods we want. i believe, as the president of the commission was saying this morning, that the most recent evidence from the global economy is that the market can produce those goods and i think that is something around which we can unite and indeed prosper.
in writing. – it is essential that the council follow up on the commitments made on climate and energy policy. clearly the challenge will be to follow the rhetoric with actual delivery of objectives. scotland has much to contribute in terms of renewable energy resources, including wave, tidal, offshore wind and even solar energy. the new scottish government is working to the limits of its devolved power in trying to maximise the potential for scotland, and to encourage connectability for our surplus electricity into european networks. scotland would be in a much better position to contribute to europe’s climate change objectives if we were full participants in the european union as an independent member state. an independent scottish government would be a constructive player in the eu, keen to develop the best interests of scotland, obviously, but also willing to work with partners in europe for our mutual benefit.
mr president, as i walked into the chamber today, i heard the president of the commission talk about the need to improve the eu’s competitiveness. yet here we are talking about milk quotas, a phrase that makes the european union sound like the ‘eussr’. it has been argued that keeping quotas makes prices high so we can keep farmers in business. but at what price? at the same time, they have led to the eu’s share of the world dairy market falling. why? because quotas actually stop efficient farmers from expanding while elsewhere quotas remain unused. quotas may guarantee production but at too high a cost for consumers, too high a cost for efficient farmers and too high a cost for eu economies. it is time to scrap the quotas and trust the free market.
mr president, i would like to give an explanation of vote because i have always been consistently against the common agricultural policy. the first political speech i ever gave was along those lines. but even i have to admit that, over the process of this last time period for the cap, there have been some minor improvements. i am concerned about many of the aspects of this report – the rejection of the reduction in the total budget for the first pillar for the period until 2013, and in a recent meeting with farmers in the village of pitsford in my constituency, even the smallest of farmers understands the global problems that the common agricultural policy that we have in europe is creating for those poorer people out in developing countries whose products cannot compete with our subsidised ones. so i did vote in favour, but with a heavy heart.
mr president, as a follow-on from the last explanation of vote, the speaker said how much less workers have to work in order to afford things like butter, milk and other agricultural products. i know that many of my constituents welcome that, especially those on lower incomes, because it helps them if they are spending less on foodstuffs. but we heard the president of the commission talk about the need for a competitive europe as i walked into the chamber today. but how can we really achieve this when we continue to have the common agricultural policy? how are we really going to become a competitive economy if we continue to spend more than 40% of the eu’s budget on agriculture – a sector that produces less than 5% of the wealth? how can we continue to give government-to-government aid to developing countries with one hand while with the other hand hindering farmers in developing countries through our subsidies and our import tariffs? how can we continue to hold up negotiations at the world trade organisation because we will not move sufficiently, because of the common agricultural policy? it is time to scrap subsidies; it is time to scrap tariffs; it is time to scrap the common agricultural policy.
mr president, i voted for the goepel report, not because i support the common agricultural policy but because i support its reform: in particular, its focus on upland farms. i come from a long line of sheep farmers and now represent yorkshire and the humber in parliament, and i have been focusing on the problems of our hill farmers in recent months. only a few days ago, on 28 february, the yorkshire post had the headline ‘hill farmers are urged to come up with survival ideas’. it went on: ‘many small hill and moorland farmers are crumbling under the pressures of grant changes, bureaucratic costs and low prices caused by competition from other countries. movement restrictions imposed in response to last autumn’s foot-and-mouth scare and the arrival of the disease bluetongue are adding further pressure.’ yesterday i had a meeting with commissioner fischer boel. i pressed on her the importance of encouraging the british government, in so far as grant aid is made available to hill farmers in england, to increase the subsidies because they are the second lowest in the european union. that is a scandal.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to rise on a position taken by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality in this place. for a long time now i have wondered why this thing still exists, the women’s committee, in this place. we have a committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and obviously women are lesser than everyone else and therefore, bizarrely in this place, we need a separate committee. if you look at some of the recommendations in this report – of which i know the rapporteur on my particular side has done an awful lot of work to make sense – we call on member states ‘to provide [...] financial support for unremunerated work’. we are asking for ‘compulsory registration of assisting spouses’. are we going to eartag people like me who live in a rural area and are married to a woman in a rural area? there are some really good recommendations in this report, actually, that do deserve thorough scrutiny and better oxygen of publicity, but the fact they come from this committee in this place actually means they are going to be buried much quicker. i appreciate the gavel, mr president, but i do hope that you understand why so many of us do not take seriously the recommendations of the women’s committee in this house.
in writing. − the goal of mr turmes’s ‘energy statistics’ report is to outline a common europe-wide framework that facilitates the availability of complete, accurate and up to date information on energy. with citizens and policy makers becoming more aware of the importance and complexity of the energy situation, we require such measures. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the need for mandatory collection of figures regarding the sale, use and distribution of plant protection products is a move that i support. it will allow for the adequate evaluation of the risk to human health and the environment that these products could carry. biocides should form part of the proposed regulation to ensure coherence of definitions with the pesticides package. the regulation must further include the non-agricultural use of plant protection products. i am satisfied that the report moves to meet these requirements and voted accordingly.
in writing. − the compromise reached in the agricultural committee on elisabeth jeggle's report dealing with milk quotas is satisfactory. a 2% increase in milk quotas is needed to allow europe to respond to increased market demand. though i would feel that this should be implemented across the eu, giving member states the choice to implement the quota is a better compromise than other alternatives. i do not support any amendments to the contrary and have voted in line with these views.
in writing. − on behalf of the british labour members i wish to explain the reasons why we voted as we did on this report. we strongly support the 2% increase in milk quotas for the year 2008/2009 proposed by the commission, allowing european farmers to respond to increased market demands. we have farmers in the eu more than capable of responding to the increased global demands for milk and it would be unacceptable to deny them the opportunity to take advantage of the favourable market situation. we are, however, unhappy that parliament supports a voluntary, as opposed to compulsory, 2% increase in milk quotas. for me, the 2% increase is also a step in giving milk producers the option to produce more and thereby helping the transition to greater market orientation. this is in line with the soft landing ahead of the milk quota system in 2015, as envisaged in the cap health check. while i understand that many countries do not fulfil their current quota allocations, including the uk, i strongly believe, that in line with the abolition of milk quotas in 2015, we need to get farmers used to the idea of having the option to produce more. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure).
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote on this report. while it contains many good elements it does not go far enough. any cap reform must first decrease subsidy and increase the role of the market in agriculture. second, look at promoting the wider rural economy rather than focusing on farming alone. third, it must promote ‘good’ food rather than put quantity before quality. only on this basis can we establish a cap that matches the needs and requirements of the new millennium.
in writing. − i voted for the successful amendment 29, which calls on the commission and the member states to take measures to prevent capturing of the market in food products and the formation of cartels by food companies, and i hope that some action will be taken to prevent supermarkets from forcing food producers to accept economically unsustainable prices for their produce. i also supported amendment 30, which sought more restrictions on gmo crops, noting that it is impossible for gmo crops to coexist with conventional and/or organic crops, and calling for the withdrawal of the gmo species already introduced by some member states. such action has clear public support, as shown by opinion polls carried out thus far.
in writing. − the cap health check will set the tone for future reform in this area and lutz goepel's report on the health check is one that i have trouble fully supporting. the health check should truly look towards creating a market driven sector that is committed to rural and environmental sustainability. we need to move away from the culture of protectionism and market distorting subsidies that the current cap facilitates. the policy should also encourage third countries, especially developing countries, to trade with us. i have reflected these concerns in the way i have voted.
in writing. − on behalf of the british labour members i wish to explain the reasons why we voted as we did on this important report. first and foremost we believe a thorough overhaul of the cap is needed so that we can move away from direct payments to farmers towards a system that encourages rural sustainability. in this regard we would like to have seen full decoupling of direct payments but appreciate that many member states have a difficulty with this. a key point for me is that reform of the cap should not be seen as an issue of big farms versus little farms. it should be an issue of efficient versus inefficient. therefore i and the british labour delegation will be voting in favour of amendments in favour of increased funding for rural development, opening up trade with developing countries, and against amendments that seek to employ protectionist measures for eu farmers. we would like to see the commission proposing the scrapping of degressive capping and addressing the issue of direct payments in a more radical way. we will not vote against the report but abstain in the hope that when the legislative proposals come forward parliament will recognise the need for radical reform. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. − the need to reform the cap has to be on-going. unfortunately parliament’s report is not ambitious enough.
in writing. − i supported the klaß report, which deals with many important issues facing women in our rural areas. low pay, lack of accessible services such as childcare, and social exclusion are issues which are all too common within rural communities. member states must work to ensure that these issues are addressed and that living conditions in rural communities are fair for all our citizens.
in writing. − i welcome the christa klaß report on the situation of women in rural areas of the eu. the goal of trying to reduce feminine migration from rural zones has my full support. by introducing measures to recognise, protect and promote the role of women in the rural sector we will not only improve equality between men and women in such areas, but stimulate economic growth and encourage sustainable development in the sector. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − as highlighted in mr tabajdi’s report on sustainable agriculture and biogas, there is a large potential for biogas that the eu has yet to exploit. the call for the commission to produce a coherent biogas policy is one that i support. there is a need for biogas policy formulation to be encouraged across the eu if we want europe to adequately diversify its energy production. through biogas we have an opportunity both to increase renewable energy production and contribute to sustainable economic, agricultural and rural development. i support the report’s recommendations.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i too offer my warmest congratulations to our rapporteur. ms gomes has produced a truly exceptional report, whose findings are derived directly from her first-hand experience on the ground. i congratulate the commissioner for her own constant and assiduous attention to the most important elements of the iraqi problem and the head of delegation, mr uusitalo, whose work i have seen on the ground on a number of occasions. first-class work by the commission – i warmly congratulate you and mr uusitalo. the council of ministers has also given a lot of attention to the question of iraq. now today we in the parliament are giving it our attention too, so at last the key institutions of the european union have come together. of course, together we can achieve much more. iraq today has a true parliament and a wholly secular constitution. iraq is one of the very few nations in this region to have a democracy – a secular democracy – despite its flaws. we therefore must do all we can to help the iraqis strengthen the democratic process. i believe strengthening ties between our respective parliaments is one of the key ways in which we can assist. i am most honoured to be the new chairman of the delegation that the conference of presidents has recently created. in october last year – and again in january with ms gomes – i had the opportunity to address the iraqi parliament in plenary session. it was a great honour and we learnt immediately how much assistance they need. to help iraq reverse the dismal administrative situation she has inherited, we need also to make close partnerships with the public service ministries and to use all of our experience in the enlargement process to help capacity-building and institution-building. for, like us, the people of iraq demand democracy and have a right to good governance. they also demand and need the provision of basic human rights, of essential public services and the full complement of those privileges that we have in our democracies in western europe. i would suggest that the price of a stable iraq exerting a benign influence regionally and nationally is worth every effort to attain. once turkey joins the european union, as i hope she will, iraq becomes our neighbour and we therefore see her as part of the wider neighbourhood.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank ms gomes for her excellent report. i should like to start by underlining that any reflection on the eu’s involvement in iraq must learn from the mistakes of the past, considering that the invasion has been such an enormous political and humanitarian catastrophe. our starting point should be recognition that iraq’s problems can only be resolved by giving real and comprehensive sovereignty, including over oil and other resources, back to the iraqis and i would therefore call for the withdrawal of all foreign occupation troops. i followed the opinion on the report in the committee on international trade and from that perspective i observed that the military occupation of iraq was followed by an economic one, whereby the us privatised public property, liberalised trade and established rules regarding foreign direct investments in clear conflict with international law. that is why we need to be a bit cautious in the areas of trade and investment. the report before us welcomes iraq’s observer status at the wto as a key step towards driving iraq’s integration in the international economy and it looks forward to the eu-iraq trade and cooperation agreement. i just want to make sure that iraq has sufficiently built up its own capacities for negotiation and evaluation. otherwise we risk that country becoming once again prey to outside interests. similarly, the report calls for help and encouragement for european firms to bid for contracts to rebuild iraq. again, let us be sure that we do all we can to build up the capacity of iraqi companies, as well as the negotiating capacities of the government, so that we can move forward in a more positive way for everyone.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is 10 years since the eu agreed a code of conduct for arms exports and it is shameful that this code has not yet been transformed into an effective instrument for controlling arms exports by all eu companies and governments. as a result, european arms are still being channelled into conflict zones. the eu finds itself in the incomprehensible position of supplying arms and fuelling conflicts in the very countries in which it is simultaneously pouring development aid. how do we explain that to our citizens? how do we explain, for example, that some member states are still prepared to trade cluster munitions while, at the same time, the eu is spending millions of euros on mine clearance? for example, in 2005 thousands of cluster bombs were used in lebanon with devastating results, and then in 2006 the eu spent eur 525 million on development aid to lebanon, partly for the removal of unexploded ordnance. let us not kid ourselves that it is only countries outside the eu that are supplying arms to conflict states: 7 out of 10 of the world’s top arms-exporting countries are eu member states. is it not time that we invested in conflict resolution for troubled states instead of arms sales? mechanisms are urgently needed to control arms transfers and transhipments properly and to prevent the brokering of illegal arms by eu companies located outside the eu. but the first step must be to turn the 1998 code of conduct into a legally binding instrument. so i would beg the slovenian presidency to do its utmost to unblock the stalemate in the council and get the common position adopted.
mr president, i have expressed my serious reservations about the chad operation from the start. the eu should not be meddling in military matters. in any case, the situation in darfur and the neighbouring areas of chad and the central african republic require a well thought-out, coherent policy, politically driven, that would include the imposition of a no-fly zone – a task that only an organisation such as nato is competent to undertake. what we now see is a half-baked, politically contrived operation, pursuing largely french objectives, with the eu playing catch-up. it is appalling that such a precarious operation was set in motion without a proper assessment of the threat and without provision of key equipment capabilities prior to deployment. i am thinking in particular of the lack of helicopters. no european ally was willing to offer them. now, as an afterthought, we are told that the russians will provide the helicopters – not only that, but russia wishes to participate in the mission. what does this say about eu motives? so desperate to create any patchwork, hazardous alliance as long as it does not involve the americans. this exposes the reality of such activities. i can think of no greater condemnation of european security and defence policy.
i scríbhinn. – tá clú agus cáil ar shaighdiúirí na héireann atá ag obair ar son na síochána leis na náisiúin aontaithe in áiteanna ina bhfuil géarchéim nó coimhlint. ba chóir tús áite a thabhairt i gcónaí do na náisiúin aontaithe in oibríochtaí síocháiníochta agus ní dhéanfar sin trí pháirt a ghlacadh i gcathghrúpa eorpach den chineál seo. tá fadhb ar leith ag baint le bheith páirteach sa ghrúpa eufor i sead. tá ról lárnach ag an fhrainc san fhórsa sin agus ag an am céanna tá saighdiúirí eile de chuid na fraince ag tacú le hidriss déby, uachtarán sead, atá cáinte go géar ag amnesty international. chomh maith leis sin is iar-choilíneacht den fhrainc é sead. tá an chontúirt ann go bhféachfar ar shaighdiúirí na héireann mar fhórsa tacaíochta do rialtas a bhfuil an-amhras faoina theist i gcúrsaí chearta an duine agus nach bhféachfar ar éirinn mar thír neodrach as seo amach. tá gá le fórsa idirnáisiúnta chun tacaíocht a thabhairt dóibh siúd atá i gcruachás i sead ach is fórsa de chuid na náisiún aontaithe ba chóir a bheith ann.
it concerns the future president of the european council. does the presidency agree that this is not, in fact, a presidency of the union, it is a chairmanship of one of the institutions, each institution having its own president? and, has the presidency had any discussions as to the nature of the job in detail, to make sure that the role does indeed not expand to be some sort of ‘president of the union’ but remains confined to chairing and running the european council meetings?
i was happy to see recently released uk government figures that show that in my constituency, the east midlands, new cases of homelessness recorded by local authorities have fallen by 25% over the past year. this is thanks to the labour government’s top priority of eliminating homelessness and a strong focus on equipping people with the skills and training needed to move away from the streets permanently. this is in stark contrast with the results achieved by the previous conservative government, under which the numbers of those homeless and sleeping rough actually increased. therefore, does the council agree that this is an example of best practice, that it should be shared and consequently that it is necessary that a suitable eu-level platform is put in place to do this?
rapporteur. − mr president, improving the quality of life of europe’s growing elderly population, as we have heard, is one of the biggest challenges facing us in europe. the make-up of our society is changing, and we need to adapt, to ensure quality of life and independent living for the elderly, who are otherwise at risk of exclusion. what we need to ensure is that this new society is an inclusive one. we need to guarantee that the growing number of elderly people are fully able to participate in society because, between 2010 and 2030, the number of eu citizens aged between 65 and 80 will rise by 40%. this ageing population will have severe implications for a number of policy areas: social, employment, housing, education, training, health care and social support. therefore we need a comprehensive, not a fragmented approach to ageing. this report results from initiatives by member states under article 169, which is co-funded by the commission to the tune of eur 150 million over five years. this will assist the european industry and research institutes in the development of new, cutting-edge ict services, products and solutions to enhance the quality of life for the older persons. today, technologies have been developed that can help solve loss of memory, vision, hearing and mobility. substantive work has already begun, but often there is neither awareness nor widespread use. so this initiative, i hope, will be of real use and help solve societal problems. i am really pleased to say that i have seen, first-hand, in many places, especially in my region, the west midlands, how a traditional house can be adapted with the use of assistive technologies which will enable a safer and accessible home environment. i am also proud that my region has been at the cutting edge of assistive technologies – not just with a view to the elderly, but also technologies have been developed to help people with disabilities. so, aal should prove to be a real boost to this sort of activity in three domains. firstly, eu research will be centrally coordinated, will enable the development of feasible products, and will introduce these into the marketplace. our aim should be to become the pole of excellence in this field, and there should be exchange of knowledge and best practice across europe. this is only achievable if we have real commitment from the participating countries. therefore, i am pleased that the council has agreed to eur 0.2 million as a minimum contribution for each participating country, along with a single common evaluation mechanism and eligibility criteria, in the hope that this will increase coordination, transparency and credibility of the programme. secondly, it will benefit eu industry, which has a tremendous potential in this area. so i call upon the aal association to develop effective business models for these ict products and services, which are the key to lower prices and getting these products onto the market. they also need to ensure that smes can participate and have fair access to research and funding opportunities. however, to be successful it is essential that the programme looks at developing eu-wide standards and interoperability in order to become a world leader in this field of assistive technologies. there is an urgent need to remove technical and regulatory barriers which hamper the development of this area. let us not forget that the rest of the world, like the us, japan and even china, are facing similar demographic challenges. therefore, it is up to us to develop a global competitive edge. aal is not just about improving independent living but can also contribute to achieving the goals of the lisbon strategy. but, to do this, we need joined-up thinking and joined-up action with other programmes – on job creation and on economic growth – in this sector. thirdly, whilst the technology can improve the quality of life for the elderly, this only holds if a few major issues are addressed: making prices affordable so they are accessible to all, user-friendliness of the new technology (and making sure the elderly and their carers have the training to understand it), and, because we may be living in an information society, but it is not yet an inclusive society – a large proportion of the elderly do face exclusion. therefore we need to make the internet more accessible and make training available, and allow elderly people both to stay socially connected and to perform their daily activities which can be facilitated, such as shopping, paying bills, making appointments. but the availability of this should not be due to a geographical divide in europe. i do not want to see a two-speed europe in relation to europe’s demographic challenge. this is only a start. we have a lot more to do, and i hope this programme will set a precedent for further activities and initiatives from the commission and the council.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank all the colleagues for their comments and contributions. i was asked by mr krasts whether i was happy for other countries also to participate in the initiative. the intention is that this programme is open to as many members as possible and it can even go beyond the eu member states – as it does already. the issue is about funding and many have raised this. the problem is that the funding appears to be capped at eur 150 million. what we need to look at is either how that could be reviewed in future, if there is a lot of interest in this programme, or whether it could be addressed through other initiatives under the framework 7 programmes. i have heard it said today that, along with climate change, ageing is one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century. it is important that the commission continue to address this, not just through individual programmes such as this, which are very important, but across other areas and – as i would like to reiterate – that it should have joined-up thinking in this. i think the commission also needs to be vigilant because some member states, it is quite clear, are very far ahead while others are not. there is an urgency to ensure that there is no huge disparity between member states after this programme is completed. i would like to take a couple of key points that colleagues have mentioned, especially my two shadow rapporteurs. mr van nistelrooij made the point that it takes too long for products to reach the market and, if we are really going to make a difference with this programme, it is essential that this particular issue is addressed. and, as mr chatzimarkakis said: we come across as the part of the world that is most committed to quality of life, whatever a person’s age. i think it is important that our words are actually backed by action. i would also like to thank ms geringer de oedenberg, the draftswoman of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, and all the other people from the secretariat, the pse group secretariat and my office for their contributions, and the commission and council, both the portuguese and slovenian presidencies. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, the commission proposal for a global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund (geeref) is, of course, welcome. it is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role in developing and emerging countries for a wide range of reasons – lowering carbon dioxide emissions, cutting energy supply dependence, tackling energy poverty and creating jobs and development opportunities – indeed, for all the same reasons that it is vital that energy efficiency and renewable energy play an increasing role here in the eu. but i have a number of concerns about the commission proposal. firstly, the funding proposed is extremely modest for the scale of the project. eur 15 million a year of public funding is peanuts – even as a seed capital intended to attract and underwrite private investment. it could easily be swallowed up by just a couple of projects in the larger, emerging countries such as china or india. although the commission communication speaks about the possibility of attracting co-financing from the 9th european development fund (edf), it is not all clear how decisions will be made on allocating the budget between the acp countries, on the one hand, and the more developed and advanced non-eu eastern european countries supported by co-financing from the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd). as a result, it is not all clear how the fund will contribute to poverty reduction. it seems to be rather a macro-fund than a micro-fund, designed to attract private finance in support of projects which, though they are relatively small by european standards, would be large in terms of many african countries. it is not clear how geeref financing is going to filter down to community-level projects such as pv panels for health centres and schools or solar cookers and water heaters. it is grass-root development which generally does the most to improve the lives of the poorest people. finally, i am concerned that the relationship between the fund and the clean development mechanism (cdm) has not been clearly explained. it would be helpful if the commission could indicate how the fund is going to improve developing country access to the cdm.
mr turmes, may i congratulate you on your excellent english and on your commitment to this subject. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on the particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life (a6-0033/2008).
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh thurascáil féin-thionscnaimh bhean panayotopoulos-cassiotou ar scrúdú chás sóisialta na mban i bpríosúin. creidim gur féidir an tuarascáil a láidriú trí chúpla leasú. ba chóir béim a chur ar choincheap na hathlonnaíochta mar chur síos níos beaichte ar an phróiseas ullmhúcháin agus na mná ag druidim lena scaoileadh saor. chun cuidiú leis seo ba chóir ‘tithe leathbhealaigh’ le timpeallacht thacúil iomchuí a úsáid. gríosaím tacaíocht do na leasuithe a éilíonn go gcuirfear deireadh le coinneáil cailíní i bpríosúin d’aosaigh. a oiread is féidir i bpríosúin ban, ba chóir foireann a úsáid, foireann mhíochaine san áireamh, ar mná iad fosta. tháinig tuarascáil amach i 2004 agus ceann eile anuraidh ag cur síos ar choinníollacha uafásacha do ghnáthphríosúnaigh bhaineanna i mo thoghlach féin i dtuaisceart na héireann. mholfainn don choimisiún moltaí na tuarascála sin a léamh in éineacht le moltaí na tuarascála seo.
although mr matsakis was the only male member speaking, mr michel spoke for the commission, and i have listened with great attention to this interesting debate. as so often, the women out number the men in these late-night debates, but that does not diminish their contribution. i thank the rapporteur and others who have spoken for their words, because, after all, in a debate like this, you are speaking for women who cannot speak for themselves. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 march. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, yesterday afternoon, in an unscheduled announcement in this chamber, the president made a show of imposing financial sanctions on a number of members because of the protest in december. what i want to know is: was it in order for the president to make that announcement without doing those members the basic courtesy of telling them that such an announcement would be made and when it would be made? the president talked much about showing courtesy to members in this house, so why, i ask, were those of us affected by his announcement not done the basic courtesy of being told that he would make such an announcement? is it too much to expect an answer to that?
mr president, although there is much good in this report, there is something i totally disagree with, as my colleagues, mr kaczmarek and mr mitchell have already done. i start by asking you, mr president, who said this: ‘through the practice of prenatal sex selection, countless women are denied the right even to exist.’ it might surprise the rapporteur of this report to know that it was said by ban ki-moon in his opening address to the united nations commission on the status of women, in new york. furthermore, according to the unfpa, in its state of the world population report last year, there is a global deficit of 60 million women in the world – that is the whole population of the united kingdom! these missing females have been prenatally sex-selected, aborted and ‘infanticised’ out of existence, and this is happening on the continent on which i was born; i know what i am talking about. how is it that a report of the european parliament on gender equality can be silent on the deliberate elimination on the basis of gender alone? where is the equality in that? i tabled an amendment to this report demanding a gender analysis of all abortions performed in the world, and guess what happened? the socialists voted against it! why? do we not have the right to know how women are being aborted before they are born? we will see later today how they vote on amendment 11. i do not know why the rapporteur has insisted on squandering this valuable opportunity to remove the most significant cause of injustice against women in the world today – their basic right to life – and, instead, insist on perpetuating through championing the so-called rights of sexual... (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, whatever one thinks of the current debate on climate change – and i can sense a lot of hot air all around me – i think we can all agree on the need for more energy efficiency. but, if we are going to talk about energy efficiency, let us make sure that we actually have some joined-up thinking on this. i will give an example: our whole policy on energy-saving light bulbs. yes, we want to phase out existing light bulbs, but yet we impose tariffs on the import of energy-saving light bulbs. yes, we talk about banning mercury in barometers (even though it actually constitutes a very small risk), yet at the same time we are encouraging energy-saving light bulbs which contain, yes, you guessed it, more mercury. not only that, but we are talking about energy efficiency, yet we continue to come to strasbourg, which emits tonnes and tonnes of needless extra co2. therefore, if we really want to take a lead on energy efficiency, we should close down the strasbourg parliament.
mr president, it is very good to see you back in your chair listening to these explanations of vote, which i know you enjoy so much. i would also like to say i appreciate the kindness and understanding of your staff and services and interpreters this week whilst we have been making these explanations of vote. i voted against this particular report for a whole bunch of reasons. firstly, i believe in tax competition. i do not believe tax harmonisation or tax should be a competence of these institutions at all. secondly, this week, in my country, the chancellor of the exchequer has imposed higher fuel taxes on british car and freight drivers without understanding the consequences of his actions. i should like to raise a separate problem. i am running a campaign with the northampton chronicle and echo for the people who live in that vicinity in my region, where we are being charged more for our fuel than all the other major towns around. i wish to highlight that there are other problems within the fuel market, let alone the problems to do with tax.
mr president, i would like to echo the comments of my colleague in thanking you, the staff and the interpreters for your kind patience as we seek to deliver these explanations of vote, which at times may be rather entertaining and at times rather boring for you. i understand that. but that is the great contrast in this place. now, let us talk about tax competition. we talk about creating the world’s largest single market here, and we talk about making the eu the most competitive economy in the world, and we talk about the world competition, yet what do we do when it comes to tax competition? well, as it actually says in the explanatory statement, the best way to address the problem of competition would be through full harmonisation. so here we are, seeing competition as a problem, while at the same time talking about the need for a more competitive economy. this should not be a competence of the eu. it is a competence of member states, and we should leave it as such, because the best way to ensure a competitive economy is to make sure that we have tax competition, not harmonisation.
mr president, yesterday when you were in the chair i emphasised how much i always enjoy reading the reports by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality in this place and wonder why it exists. to prove this point today we have a report whose findings are more coherent with somebody who watched too much prisoner: cell block h as a child than on the actual facts of the situation of women in prisons – and whether that should be a competence of this place anyway. for example, in recital q, it says: ‘whereas the increased number of women in prison is partly due to the worsening economic conditions of women’. i think, and i have checked with the statistics from a number of countries in the european union, the number is going up simply because the population is going up. in fact, the proportion of women in prison across europe is dropping. it says here that access to health care of all kinds should be provided to a very high quality in prisons. yes, that is absolutely right. but there are plenty of elderly women in my constituency who would love to have the same benefits of health-care provision that are provided to women inmates in prisons throughout the uk. so that is why i have abstained on the report.
mr president, i voted with my party’s whip on this particular report and against many of the amendments. however, i do have a problem with the contents of the recitals. it says, ‘whereas it is necessary to create a national force for maintaining order that brings together all the communities viewed to be trustworthy by them’. this is the people of iraq, the national force created by, i guess, people from within iraq. you do wonder actually how much determination the individual member states that comprise the european parliament have put behind that effort so far. all you have to do is look at how many people have supported the efforts in iraq, believe in them or not. as we do, we should try and tidy up the problems that we have caused. i really do think that this resolution shows how trying to have a harmonised eu foreign and security policy in the future will cause us many problems, both in this place and within our member state capitals.
in writing. − claude turmes’ report on the global energy and renewable energy fund (geeref) is one that i endorse. the geeref will use limited public funds to encourage private investment in energy efficient and renewables orientated projects in developing countries and economies in transition. a fund that helps everyone achieve a certain level of energy efficiency and embrace renewables has my support and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i support danutė budreikaitė’s report on the challenge of eu development cooperation policy for new member states. while the eu’s new member states, excluding malta and cyprus, provide unique expertise for the application and targeting of development policy in our neighbour countries to the east, we must actively encourage their involvement with sub-saharan africa and other ldcs. our new members strengthen the eu’s role as a world partner and should be fully encouraged in that role. the report and its recommendations have my support.
in writing. − i back nina gill’s report ‘enhancing the quality of life of older people’. in pooling resources and coordinating research and development on a european level we are more adequately able to assess how to improve the lives of our older citizens. by setting a minimum contribution we ensure the participation of all member states in this cause. i would like to commend the rapporteur on her report and support the recommendations contained within.
in writing. − the goal of olle schmidt’s report ‘taxation of unleaded petrol, gas and oil’ is to attend to the disparities in excise duty on fuel across the union. the current imbalance has encouraged fuel tourism, which has economic and environmental ramifications. measures need to be taken to ensure that this practice is discouraged. nevertheless i recognise the needs of new member states still engaged in the process of economic development, who will require time to adjust to the measures proposed. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, despite the view expressed in one of the recitals that sees all problems in iraq as being down to the previous regime. there is no doubt that saddam hussein was a vicious dictator and caused the deaths of many of his people, not least in the systematic attempt to wipe out the kurds. however, the total lack of any strategy by the occupying forces to deal with rebuilding the country has also resulted in untold misery. i am very pleased, however, that parliament took the view that no country should be forcibly returning people to iraq. the country is not safe, not even iraqi kurdistan, which has recently seen turkish tanks cross its borders, causing further fear and instability. we were told by members of many parties in the iraqi parliament that return is dangerous and potentially destabilising for the country itself. we have also heard in the subcommittee on human rights of the plight of the millions of iraqis living as refuges in neighbouring countries with little support from the international community. we should support the public services in those states and at least educate the children.
in writing. − i am pleased to see that ana gomes’ report on the eu’s role in iraq looks forward and formulates a strategy to build a robust democratic iraqi state that respects human rights and the country’s rich ethnic and confessional make-up. iraq needs europe to help build upon the recent security improvements that will go a long way in encouraging investment and increased ngo involvement in reconstructing the country. all of europe has an interest in a stable and secure iraq and i feel the report’s recommendations recognise this.
in writing. − i will be supporting this resolution. it is essential as i said in my report from more than a decade ago that we have a binding legal basis for our code of conduct on arms exports. yet the imperative to export is driven by a divided european industry that is desperate for long production so as to enable it to compete with mass-produced armaments from the us with only batch production domestic demand. thus we need to see a single market in defence equipment which will enable europe to first compete, second to stop feeding regional wars around the world and third move some of its most highly qualified scientists and engineers into the new advanced technology industries of tomorrow.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation voted against the resolution on the basis that it does not accept the references to the lisbon treaty or to the evolving esdp, both of which it opposes. furthermore, while it is strongly in favour of a responsible arms transfer policy, it is not convinced of the merits of a legally binding code of conduct, imposed by the eu, in advance of an internationally binding arms trade treaty.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues believe that ways should always be looked at to improve the situation of women in prison. the report suggests a number of possibilities that could be explored further, including the provision of health services. however, the report is overly prescriptive in what it asks of member states in this area. it is for member states to decide on the details of prison policy. in particular, we are unable to agree with the premise of recital c and recital q, which we believe distort other aspects of the report that may have value. for these reasons, we have decided to abstain.
in writing. − i agree with the findings outlined in marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou’s report on the situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life. prison remains orientated towards the needs of male prisoners and i welcome the report’s aim to highlight the differences experienced by women. i endorse the report.
in writing. − when voting for any policy which includes the term ‘sexual and reproductive health’ we understand this to mean the protection and enhancement of the life and health of the mother and the unborn. we do not accept any other definition that infers abortion to be within this term; and furthermore we understand that any care, information, policies or any other services pertaining to sexual and reproductive health similarly exclude abortion. we will work to have this definition accepted at every forum and body we can influence. we note the reply given by the council presidency in parliament on 4 december 2003 that the term reproductive health does not include the promotion of abortion and, inter alia, that abortion should never be presented as a method of family planning, contrary to what the who states on fertility regulation. it is clear, therefore, that the who definition is not binding on or even accepted by governmental and parliamentary institutions. we will continue to support policies to promote responsible sexual practices, and to protect and enhance the life and health of the mother and the unborn, including supporting the provision of resources to achieve these objectives.
in writing. − feleknas uca’s report ‘gender equality and women’s empowerment in development cooperation’ welcomes the commission’s strategy on the issue. i reiterate this approval of a strategy that seeks to mainstream gender equality in development cooperation. i have voted in favour of the report.
author. − mr president, my group strongly supports the motion for a resolution concerning mr kambakhsh, although i am not sure i would agree with everything the previous speaker has said. however, i want to shift attention to another young man whose life is also in danger at the moment, mehdi kazemi, who is from iran, and where the british government, in this case, could make a difference. many of us hope that the home secretary, jacqui smith, will now intervene on the basis of new evidence. this parliament has passed many motions for resolutions which have condemned the human rights record in iran. we believe that it is a dangerous country for homosexuals. indeed, we have seen the bodies hanging from cranes, so we know that it is, and many of us believe that it is dangerous for this young man in particular. there are those who have said that it is safe for him to be returned if his behaviour is discreet. i would suggest that what constitutes ‘discreet’ behaviour in iran is rather different from what that might mean in our own member states. but the issue is that for many, in certain countries, whether they are in iran, jamaica or elsewhere, being gay is a crime and they are at risk. my group has been very critical of the dublin regulation which is involved in this case, because we know there are still very large variations in the way in which asylum requests are treated between member states, and that even access to the procedure can be extremely difficult. we have seen a climate where numbers have been regarded as more important than life. this is the substance of a protection procedure: it is about saving somebody’s life when it is at risk. it is not about the niceties of correct procedures: it is about the effect. we want a functioning asylum policy which is able to correct errors and take account of new information, and which gives the same high standard across member states. we hope that in this case the british government will be demonstrating that this is possible.
mr president, i support both these resolutions. but it is my country that is proposing to send a young teenage man home to his death in iran. a death already suffered by his friend. not for any crime, but because of his sexuality. it is my country which in the past has had the proud boast that it has an absolute standard that we never send people back to face a penalty worse than they would suffer if they were facing a penalty in britain. here we have no crime and we have a penalty which we in britain abolished many years ago. it is my country which, if it does not relent in this case, should hang its head in shame. i hope that this parliament will not have to hang its head in shame. i hope they will support this resolution. for god’s sake, this is a 19-year-old we are talking about! (loud applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the committee agreed the jäätteenmäki report to strengthen the powers of the ombudsman by 19 votes in favour to none against. it is a question we have discussed for some time. it seems to me now to be quite extraordinary and, indeed, deplorable that the pse and ppe-de groups have acquired cold feet upon the important question of the ombudsman. the transparency of parliament depends upon improving the statute of the european ombudsman. the presidency is requesting that we fast-track the question for conclusion, and i would strongly urge parliament to press on with the agenda as agreed.
mr president, i am also a member of the delegation for relations with the mashreq countries, and, indeed, lebanon is in a tragic situation. but i must say to the council and the commission that, listening to you this afternoon, i am less than impressed by the sort of impotence of your presentations. you are passing off your responsibilities to an equally impotent arab league. we seem to be making no progress, and i think europe could play a much more significant part, not only in lebanon but in the whole middle east issue. it sits on a fence and does not come off that fence. please, council and commission, can we take a much stronger line on the whole middle east issue from a european point of view and not just indulge ourselves in pious platitudes?
madam president, i think this report is too optimistic by half. last year, i spent a very intensive week in croatia in meetings with diplomats, academics, lawyers, businessmen, chambers of commerce and the media. i got a very clear picture of a country that does not have a proper market economy and a country that has far too much government engagement in the judiciary, in the media and in business. it is what we describe as crony capitalism. the government expends more than 50% of croatia’s gdp. it is simply not a free market in the sense we understand. they need to implement transparency in government contracts, which are subject to graft. they need to implement full disclosure of interest in planning decisions, which, at the moment, just provide income for officials. we have a short window of opportunity to urge reform on croatia before accession. i am not convinced that we are using it adequately.
madam president, on a point of order, i fully respect your ruling that this debate is subject to a time schedule, but perhaps the interest shown by members under the catch-the-eye procedure might encourage you and, indeed, your colleagues to consider extending the time available for members to discuss matters that are of general european concern and not simply to those who serve on a particular committee. there are many things i would like to say about macedonia and croatia, but i am not permitted to do so. i shall commit them to my memoirs and i shall send you a personal copy.
mr president, this coming weekend the second phase of the largest commercial seal hunt in the world is about to begin off the coast of atlantic canada. the canadian government has given its assurance that this hunt will be conducted humanely and, as a condition of their licences, sealers are now required to stun seals and check they are unconscious and then bleed them out before they are skinned. yet, according to independent observers, there is little evidence of this happening. that is, of course, when they have actually been permitted to observe sealing activities. the department of fisheries’ systematic attempts to block the observation of this year’s hunt have been almost as alarming as the blatant violations of the sealing regulations that have thus far been recorded. if the canadian authorities are so very confident that these regulations are being adhered to, then why are they doing their utmost to prevent animal welfare specialists and journalists from witnessing it? moreover, we should not forget that no such animal welfare guarantees have ever been made for the commercial seal hunts elsewhere in the world, such as russia and namibia. with the current legislature coming to an end, it is vital that the commission take swift action, in response to written declaration 38, by publishing a proposal to ban the import and export of and trade in seal products. such a ban would not affect subsistence farming, but it would demonstrate a commitment to protect animal welfare.
mr president, tomorrow is the 10th anniversary of the belfast agreement. some find much to celebrate; i do not. why? because it is the belfast agreement which rewarded 30 years of terrorism in northern ireland by undermining both justice and democracy: justice, by granting an early-release amnesty to all duly convicted terrorist prisoners; and democracy, by prescribing that unrepentant terrorists must be included in the government of the region they ravaged for decades. that is to be achieved by the iniquity of mandatory coalition. the region which i represent is the only region in all of the european union where citizens are denied the fundamental, democratic right to vote a party out of office. why? because the belfast agreement by law stipulates that all parties must be in government if there is to be a government. that is the belfast agreement and that is wrong. it is something to be denounced, not celebrated.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, cancer affects one in three of us across the european union and results in over one million deaths. therefore this disease has a twofold cost: firstly, the human cost in terms of its impact on sufferers and their families and, secondly, as a major health burden to society as a whole. further, due to the demographic changes we are experiencing, and with an ageing population, this is a problem that will only increase. we need to ensure that all our citizens have access to high-quality screening programmes, diagnosis and treatment, including palliative care. a cancer task force would ensure a cohesive and coordinated approach to all aspects of the disease, ensuring exchange of information and promotion of best practice. we must ensure that more is done to secure research and innovation, giving as many people as possible access to the best in cancer prevention and treatment. we also need to highlight the link between cancer and obesity – the most avoidable cause of cancer after tobacco. it is also vital to ensure that workers are protected from cancer-causing substances – around 8% of all cancers are caused by exposure to carcinogens at work – and we need binding limits on crystalline silica, which can cause disabling illness and fatal lung disease. on that point, i would urge members to support paragraph 33 and recital k of the original text agreed by the committee – remember the construction industry is not party to the social partners’ agreement on crystalline silica. there are massive disparities in cancer treatment and screening across europe. many of the deaths from cancer could be avoided by prevention measures, such as access to information and to comprehensive screening programmes. tackling these disparities must be a priority. it is our moral duty and it is possible. what we need is the political will to achieve it.
madam president, cancer is already the second biggest killer in europe, but the reality is that many cancers are preventable and many cancer deaths unnecessary. screening, diagnosis and treatment have improved but not enough. we must set up mechanisms at eu level to ensure that best practice is shared more effectively. take colorectal cancer, for instance. it is estimated that over 27 000 lives could be saved in the eu each year if modern screening programmes were in place across europe. we also need to make sure that those diagnosed with cancer are not discriminated against in the workplace. that should be covered by the employment directive 2000 on combating discrimination in the workplace, but many member states do not class chronic illness and cancer as a disability. that is why we need a definition of disability at eu level that could include people with cancer.
aontaím gur chóir tascfhórsa idirinstitiúideach um ailse a bhunú a thabharfadh le chéile ionadaithe ó pharlaimint na heorpa, ón choimisiún agus ón chomhairle ar bhonn rialta. ba chóir taighde um aimsiú agus cosc ar ailse a mhaoiniú fosta faoin seachtú creatchlár. fáiltím roimh an mhéid a chualamar ón choimisiún inniu leis an díospóireacht seo. is gá straitéisí a chur i bhfeidhm chun cás na mban a chur san áireamh agus go háirithe an gá le scagadh mhuineál na broinne atá saor agus rialta agus scagadh ailse cíche atá saor agus tapa. chomh maith leis sin, caithfimid amharc ar thionchar ceimiceán agus reachtaíocht reach a úsáid mar bhealach chun na ceimiceáin sin a rialú. agus mar fhocal scoir, is eochairfhachtóir í an bhochtaineacht maidir le drochshláinte. daoine atá bocht, is mó an seans go n-éireoidh siadsan tinn agus go bhfaighfidh siad bás níos luaithe ná iad siúd atá níos saibhre agus is fíor seo go háirithe maidir le cosc ar ailse agus ar an leigheas.
mr president, i did not intend to contribute, but i feel compelled to on the issue of clean coal technology. the importance of clean coal technology is absolutely essential, and the question which needs to be asked is: what can the eu do, as the previous speaker just said, to support new technologies, including clean coal technology? the advancement of clean coal technology is essential to our fulfilling our climate change targets, and there is such an urgency with this. the urgency can only be addressed by us working together across the european union.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, europe has a rich and diverse cultural heritage and one which enriches our lives, not just aesthetically but economically. the sector contributes 2.6% of the eu’s gdp, as has been said. it shows higher growth than the economy in general and over five million people are employed in it. these are three very clear reasons why the commission should keep its hands well away, unless we want to see culture go the same way as fishing and agriculture. however, the trading deficit in motion pictures alone between the eu and the united states grows year on year as european audiences choose american, rather than european, products. that deficit, according to the latest figures, was gbp 7.2 billion in one year alone. free from the restraint placed on them by reliance on state funding, the six major us motion picture companies turned over usd 42.6 billion in 2006, whilst, according to a report by the european audiovisual observatory, the overall situation of the european film industry is deteriorating. that is because subsidies and legislation do not inspire artists – they breed bureaucrats and parasites.
madam president, i would very much like to thank mr bono for this report, which highlights the important role of the creative and cultural industries and, particularly, the increasing part they play in our economy. as most of you know, i represent london, which is, of course, one of the creative hubs of europe. because of that, i am very aware indeed of the benefits that creative industries can bring to a locality. london is diverse in culture and thriving in its creativity and, as the cultural industries represent a significant sector of london’s economy, i very much welcome the recommendations to support their sustainability and growth. but, having said that, there is one matter of great concern, which has already been alluded to in discussions on another report this evening. that is that, while there are a huge number of employees within the industry who are women, there are not very many women in higher positions in the creative industries, and i very much hope that we will be able to address this in future deliberations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 april 2008. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – my region, the west midlands, is leading the way in developing creative industries, with more than one in ten now employed in the sector. the region is one of the most multicultural regions in the uk and is proving that its competitive advantage in cultural diversity is becoming a source of creativity and innovation. however, the eu must make a stronger commitment to supporting cultural industries by stimulating job creation in this area to counter the relocation of the eu’s traditional industries to emerging economies. what is needed is joined-up action and greater financial assistance for business start-ups and smes in cultural industries through the seventh framework programme, the structural funds and the eu social fund. this will further harness the skills and talent of europe’s entrepreneurs and workers, to ensure that the necessary skills are available to further develop the sector. the eu must support creativity for more innovation and entrepreneurship. in the european year for intercultural dialogue, we should also recognise the importance of cultural industries in creating awareness and understanding of other cultures, and, therefore, their importance for social cohesion. similarly, europe has a great deal to gain economically from its cultural diversity.
the next item is the report by vasco graça moura, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on a european agenda for culture in a globalising world (2007/2211(ini)) (a6-0075/2008).
madam president, the point i want to make concerns equal access to culture no matter what your background; rich or poor, culture has to be accessible to all. free entry to museums and art galleries – certainly in scotland and the united kingdom – has seen record levels of people visiting cultural institutions. that is why free access to cultural institutions and cultural events is so important across the european union. many of the points in this report – paragraphs 10, 25, 26, and 46 about 2011 being the ‘european year of the greek and latin classics’ – are very interesting. the decline in the teaching of classics in state schools in my country of scotland is deeply depressing. how can we understand the present without understanding the past? i am grateful for the report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 april 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by philippe morillon, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation concerning authorisations for fishing activities of community fishing vessels outside community waters and the access of third country vessels to community waters (com(2007)0330 - c6-0236/2007 - 2007/0114(cns)) (a6-0072/2008).
just to explain: because it is a commission proposal, the commission speaks first. i think mr morillon was looking as confused as i was.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i am glad to have the opportunity to speak on the morillon report on fishing authorisations – or i should say the ex-stihler report. as the original rapporteur, i was compelled to remove my name from the report when the committee on fisheries rejected my key amendments. the report was supposed to simplify fishing authorisations. instead, the commission over-reached itself with an unnecessary article awarding itself the right to reallocate fishing quotas. if supported unamended, this report will unjustly discriminate against northern countries and their historic fishing rights and jeopardise relative stability. to give the commission carte blanche to reallocate fishing opportunities beggars belief, especially when fishing opportunities are scarcer. we have to ask ourselves whether we are facing a fishing free-for-all in the north sea. this is not in the interests of scottish fishermen, nor is it in the interests of protecting and conserving stocks. the next review of the common fisheries policy is due by 2012 and this report is a wake-up call that historic fishing rights are under threat in the north and baltic seas. i have retabled key amendments for the plenary and urge colleagues to support them. if these amendments are defeated, i urge voting against this report.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr morillon on taking over this report on behalf of the committee, but i really have to commiserate with ms stihler, because she did a lot of work and then, as we heard, she had to withdraw her name from the report. that is always a great cause for frustration, after a rapporteur has put a great deal of hard work into the preparation of a complex bit of work like this. but i can well understand her reasons for doing so. while few in this parliament would argue with any proposal that seeks to enhance fisheries compliance, it is of major concern to me that article 13 of the report, which deals with under-utilisation of fisheries opportunities, will simply provide the commission with the right to reallocate fishing opportunities from one member state to another. this would clearly undermine the entire concept of relative stability and as such would destabilise one of the core principles of the common fisheries policy. in fact, article 13 is something of a trojan horse, as it seems to have more to do with gaining access to fishing opportunities previously allocated to other member states than with reducing bureaucracy and red tape and improving compliance, which i thought the report was all about. i know that in the fisheries council the uk, germany, france, the netherlands and denmark have all expressed similar concerns, so, as ms stihler said, this is a resurrection of the old north-south divide, which i thought had disappeared long ago, and that is something that we do not want to see coming back. i very much hope – contrary to what commissioner borg told us in his earlier remarks – that tomorrow parliament will vote in favour of amendments 20, 21, 22 and 23, tabled by ms stihler and signed by 40 meps.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 april 2008.
rapporteur. − madam president, my thanks are due to the shadow rapporteurs and all on the fisheries committee for producing a well-balanced report on what is a very complex and in many ways sensitive issue. in some public debate, rights-based management is equated with the employment of individual transferable quotas. the report takes a much broader view, treating the term as covering any of the forms that can be taken by the right to harvest fish, given that these are seen as a common public good. so understood, it is clear that there is a variety of such forms currently in operation throughout the eu. for example, the extent of the right may be specified by reference to the territory to be fished, the amount of fish to be harvested, the effort allowed or some mixture of these. similarly, although the right is implicitly transferable, there are various limitations in this respect. for example, that from community to member states is conditioned by the principle of relative stability. further, there seems to be a considerable range of such limitations. one particular form of divergence between member states is how far transfer for economic value is permitted, either formally or informally, and thus amounts to a tradable right. the central issue is, then, how fisheries management should engage in constituting the right to harvest in order best to obtain the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the commission communication raises the question of the extent to which a single system might be introduced, either at community level or by harmonising the practice of member states. the report of the fisheries committee details a number of concerns about the adverse impacts that certain types of rights-based management might have, but also touches on the manner in which some of these might be prevented. it indicates too the way in which certain types of rights-based management can have positive effects, provided they are properly devised. the report notes the variety of systems of rights-based management currently in place, the degree to which the forms of right concerned are hybrid ones and the complexity of the issues involved. it is consequently rightly cautious about the idea of moving to any single system. over and above the need to protect artisanal fleets, we raise the question of whether, on a more general basis, the same system would be appropriate for both single species and multi-species fisheries. we finish by asking the commission to address a number of different questions in its study and, in view of all that needs to be taken into consideration, to allow a longer time for debate. in conclusion, i would like to touch more deeply on one aspect of the report. although rights-based management is essentially a juristic concept, i have the impression that much of the drive towards its discussion has come from economists. i do not think that anyone here would doubt that fisheries management must take account of sound economic principles. indeed the report indicates some of the positive outcomes to which economic efficiency may give rise. but such efficiency has to be seen as an instrumental good. as the report states, it is valuable insofar as it promotes the objectives of the cfp. i have personal doubts that economic efficiency is sufficient, in itself, to promote all these objectives to the desired extent and suspect that there are ways in which it may prove counterproductive to some aspects of them. i seek reassurance, therefore, that the commission will take a genuinely rounded approach, both in relation to the content and to the outcome of the study.
madam president, this is a complex area and i certainly commend ms attwooll for her report and her efforts in that regard. representing a region whose overall experience of the common fisheries policy has been far from positive, i must say that my natural inclination is strongly against the imposition of any eu-based management system. rather, i am quite clear that member states should be able to decide what management system works best for them. moreover, maintaining stability, i fear, could be severely jeopardised in the industry if unregulated transferable quotas were embraced, with particular threat to single and small-scale operators. it would be better by far in my book to repatriate real powers over fishing to member states and concentrate on getting in place viable local management systems capable of enjoying the confidence of those affected. i also fear that this new study will prove to be another protracted excuse for putting off real and helpful change. i hope that does not prove to be so, but we have seen that in the past.
rapporteur. − madam president, i cannot say that i am altogether reassured by the commissioner’s response, because it seemed to me that, in what he was saying, he was actually giving pre-eminence to one particular form of rights-based management, whereas what the report is seeking is a review of all different types of forms to assess their merits and demerits. i think we are all agreed that the common fisheries policy is in need of reform. a newspaper in my constituency that picked up the european parliament press release on the report cites me as being cautious about the reform of the cfp. this is certainly not so if it is taken to mean that i have any doubts about the need for reform. i am cautious, as i think we all are, to the extent of wanting to be reassured that the reform is in the right direction. in the course of writing the report, for example, it occurred to me to ask just how compatible with one another the different ways of defining the extent of the right to fish are. my feeling was that, whilst quota and effort limitations both combine readily with territorial restrictions, neither of the first two sits that comfortably with the other. this in turn made me realise that, technical though a report on rights-based management might, on the face of it, seem, the issue it raises goes to the very heart of the common fisheries policy. whilst generally applauding the direction of current reform, i hope that the discussion may trigger a more radical reappraisal of the tools we use, so as to achieve the best possible balance between improving the livelihood of those engaged in fisheries, having a sustainable marine ecology in which fish stocks are conserved and maintaining the viability of fisheries-dependent communities. i would not like to think that, in advance of a thorough study, some prior decision had been taken as to what might achieve the very best balance.
mr president, i have four quick questions on climate change. firstly, is global warming happening? answer: no, the world has got slightly cooler over the last 10 years and the rate of cooling is accelerating. secondly, is it caused by mankind? answer: no, there is increasing scientific evidence to show that what climate change we see is part of natural cycles and has very little or nothing to do with human activity. thirdly, can we make a difference? even those who believe in global warming accept that the whole of the kyoto process, if it were fully implemented – and it will not be – would make a tiny difference in 100 years time to global temperatures. all the efforts we are making will have practically no effect. fourthly, what will it do to our economies? it will be hugely damaging. as mr pęk rightly said, we are pouring truckloads of money into a doomed project and causing huge damage to ourselves, to european economies and to our children and grandchildren.
mr president, the eu is proud of its commitment to the ipcc’s recommendations on how to combat global warming by persuading its member states to inject massive funding into carbon-emission control projects. but have you backed the wrong horse? last month many eminent scientists and climatologists from around the world met in new york and after two days of serious discussions issued the manhattan declaration, which states categorically that there is no convincing evidence that co2 emissions from modern industrial activity have in the past, are now, or will in the future cause catastrophic climate change; and that adaptation, as needed, is massively more cost-effective than any attempted mitigation. they recommend that world leaders reject the views expressed by the united nations ipcc, as well as popular but misguided works such as an inconvenient truth, and that all taxes, regulations and other interventions intended to reduce emissions of co2 be abandoned forthwith. finally, lord lawson, who is a member of the house of lords select committee on climate change, says this: ‘the average temperature in helsinki is less than 5°c. in singapore it is in excess of 27°c – a difference of 22°. if humans can successfully cope with that, it is not immediately apparent why they should not be able to adapt to a change of some 3° when they are given 100 years in which to do so.’ i recommend that you take advice given in the manhattan declaration.
in writing. – ba chóir go mbeadh sé ríshoiléir do chách faoin am seo an gá atá le hullmhúchán a dhéanamh d'athrú aeráide. caithfidh ár sochaí agus ár ngeilleagar athrú de réir mar a athraíonn ár n-aeráid. mar eagraíocht fhornáisiúnta tá áit ar leith ag an aontas eorpach maidir le hullmhúchán agus comhordú iomchuí dá chomhaltaí a cheadú. ba chóir go mbeadh gníomhartha a dhéanfaí ar leibhéal an ae uaillmhianach agus sáite i réaltacht eolaíoch ár n-aimsire féin. is féidir le pleanáil ar aghaidh cuidiú linn na hiarmhairtí is measa d’athrú aeráide a láimhseáil. ba chóir go mbeadh an ae flaithiúil ina chaidreamh seachtrach nuair atá sé ag déileáil le tíortha i mbéal forbartha, ag tacú leo iad féin a chur in oiriúint maidir le hathrú aeráide ― feiniméan nach bhfuil siad freagrach as ach fulaingeoidh siad go díréireach mar thoradh air. ba chóir go gcuirfidh bearta trádála leis an domhan i mbéal forbartha an méid seo san áireamh amach anseo má tá siad ag iarraidh a bheith ar bhealach ar bith cóir.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ouský report in order that decisions taken regarding the movement of pets be taken only after full consideration of the scientific assessments.
in writing. − british conservatives abstained on this report since, whilst we disagree with its contents, the proposal acknowledges that the united kingdom is exempt from the provisions. it is our long-standing policy not to take a position on issues which do not affect the united kingdom and from which we have secured an opt-out.
in writing. − i abstained on the attwooll report because, whilst i could agree with much of it, it failed to address the fundamental problem with our current fisheries management system: the fact that europe’s waters are governed centrally in the form of the cfp. the report states that marine biological resources are a ‘common public good’, but fails to recognise that these resources are best managed by europe’s fishing nations. the report states that ‘fishing right management mechanisms should be adopted at community level’, when the reality shows that community management of fisheries has been an unmitigated disaster. different management tools should be studied with a view to ensuring the long-term viability of europe’s fishing communities, but the key decisions relating to these tools should be the responsibility of the fishing nations, not the european institutions.
in writing. − the idea of launching a discussion on the future of rights-based management systems within the common fisheries policy is one i support. ms attwooll’s report on rights-based management tools in fisheries should therefore be welcomed. the issues raised by such discussions will make for lively and constructive debate in seeking simplification of the cfp. i voted in favour of ms attwooll’s recommendations.
in writing. − i welcome the first mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 2008 budgetary year. the party of european socialists was very active in setting up this fund and it is an essential contribution to efforts aimed at alleviating the effects of globalisation on workers. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i welcome mr rubig’s proposals to support research and development performing smes. the plan to inject eur 400 million into encouraging such smes to conduct market-orientated research in transnational projects should be supported and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in support of mr gierek’s report on the research fund for coal and steel. the report’s proposals will allow for a greater focus on environmental concerns and will enable the coal and steel sector to investigate ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this report and i think it is important that we take the opportunity to look in more detail at the use of coal as part of our energy needs. for too long coal has been seen as a dirty fuel and scant regard has been given to the possibility of cleaning up coal by use of new technologies. my own region of the north-west of england still sits on huge reserves of quality coal that is deemed too expensive to extract, and whilst it is true that coal in its purest form is not an environmentally-friendly fuel, new, clean coal technology now exists that would enable coal to play a key role in our energy supply whilst not destroying the environment in the process. we need to use our coal reserves better. we need to find more research money to make coal more environmentally friendly and more economically competitive. we need to do more to revive our coal-mining communities. i believe clean coal does have a future and i thank the committee on industry, research and energy for its report which at least starts this discussion going.
in writing. − both coal and steel have been very important industries to communities in the south-east of england, especially in kent. i welcome this report which promotes a research fund to develop elements of these industries inside the eu, as we need answers to our future energy needs. in particular, making coal an environmentally more accepted fuel could help secure our energy needs in the future when europe could be under greatest stress from uncertain supply conditions.
in writing. − i voted against the morillon report, because a number of amendments which i co-signed were voted down. in particular, amendments relating to the reallocation of fishing opportunities were defeated. my own hostility to the disastrous cfp has been well documented in this house and i believe that fisheries management should be returned to europe’s fishing nations. however, for as long as we have a common policy, the principle of relative stability must remain inviolable and all of europe’s fishing communities must be assured that their historic fishing rights will remain their own.
in writing. − the goal of mr morillon’s report should have been to simplify the common fisheries policy. i am not convinced that the report’s initial proposals met this requirement. the inclusion of agreements that fall under article 63 of the united nations convention on the law of the sea would produce great practical difficulties for the scottish fishing industry. provisions pertaining to utilisation appear to already form part of existing third-country fisheries partnership agreements and the report’s recommendations only serve to further complicate matters in this area. my vote reflected these concerns.
in writing. − on behalf of the european parliamentary labour party, i am writing to explain why we tabled and supported amendments 20-23 on the morillon report, and, when the amendments, fell, voted against the amended report and legislative resolution. amendments 20, 21, and 22 relate to the scope of the regulation. it is important to maintain the distinction between agreements that are covered by article 63 rather than 62 of unclos. only the latter should be the subject of this proposal. amendment 23 deletes the power given to the commission to re-allocate fishing opportunities as proposed in article 13, preserving the principle of relative stability and historic fishing rights in a context of responsible fishing. today’s vote should be a wake-up call to all those who are concerned about the conservation of vulnerable fishing stocks. it shows that the european parliament is in favour of the european commission reallocating fishing quotas, which would result in a free-for-all in the north sea. this goes against the principle of relative stability and is detrimental to scottish fishing interests. we had no other option but to vote against this report.
in writing. − the original compromise resolution was in my opinion not entirely balanced. the initial disturbances in lhasa and elsewhere were orchestrated attacks on people and premises with arson, injury and murder of han chinese and the muslim minority. in my own country this would, if it had been white youth against our migrant community, have been described as race riots. nevertheless on balance i could have supported it. china still fails to fully respect human rights across its territory, with respect to independent trade unions, internal migrants and the practice of minority religions. however, the amendments from the right that have passed pushed this text beyond the fringe. the rejection of the eu’s ‘one china policy’, the demands for a dialogue ‘without preconditions’ made it impossible for me to support the resolution even with my agreement on the human rights elements contained within the resolution, as i indicated by my roll-call votes.
in writing. − i condemn the chinese armed forces’ repression of tibetan protestors. indeed, this issue underlines the need for a common eu approach to china. it is only through such a coherent approach that cooperation can constructively move forward. the beijing olympics are a prime opportunity to push for progress on issues such as human rights and media freedoms in china. any attempts by the chinese government to hinder protests or reporting for these ends would be regrettable. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − mr swoboda’s report on croatia is a well-balanced report that outlines an optimistic view of croatia’s efforts towards eu accession. it is nevertheless realistic and does point to the need for continued effort by the croatian government on judicial and border issues. i welcome the country’s efforts towards accession and hope for these to continue. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i fully support the motion for a resolution brought before parliament by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety relating to combating cancer. the eu has an important role to play in coordinating the fight against a disease which one in three europeans will be diagnosed with in the course of their lifetimes. member states also clearly have a key role in cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment amongst their citizens and must learn from each other in order to combat the disease. just this week, the scottish government announced a national programme to immunise schoolgirls against human papilloma virus, the cause of the majority of cervical cancer cases, and it is programmes such as this which the eu should encourage all member states to adopt.
in writing. − with one in three europeans diagnosed with cancer during their lifetime and one in four europeans dying from the disease, cooperation to share best practice and to call for more resources for research is important in the eu. the concept of an interinstitutional eu cancer task force with the aim to increase by 50% by 2018 the number of eu citizens participating in a cancer screening programme should be welcomed.
in writing. − i welcome the myller report on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme. i share its concerns over the increase in transport emissions and slow-moving efforts towards energy efficiency. more concerted effort needs to be made in these areas.
in writing. − along with the majority of my group, i supported both parts of this amendment. forced removal of a customer’s internet connection, without judicial oversight, is not the right solution to combating piracy. furthermore, internet connections are often not personal. forcing the disconnection of one person’s internet connection would have an unintended and disproportionate impact on other innocent users of the same connection. i strongly support measures to protect those who work in the cultural industries by protecting intellectual property. however, access to the internet is becoming increasingly important for civil participation, media pluralism, freedom of expression and interaction with government services. we should avoid disconnection wherever possible in favour of other, more effective measures to combat piracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the bono report which recognises the huge importance of cultural industries in europe. in my own country, scotland, the creative industries generate over £5 billion annually thereby contributing both to the economy and our society as a whole. the eu must work with the nations of europe to ensure that we adopt a coherent strategy to promote the industries attached to our rich and culturally diverse continent.
in writing. − mr bono’s report on the cultural industries in europe calls for greater recognition of the industries’ contribution to the european economy. the cultural sector should also be considered when formulating eu policy more generally. policies affecting the internal market, competition, trade and research and development, among others, all concern the cultural sector in various ways, and the proposals found in the report recognise this. i therefore voted in support of mr bono’s recommendations.
in writing. − on part 2 of amendment 22, i believe that people that act illegally on the internet should have that service withdrawn. this is why i voted against part 2.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the graça moura report which rightly highlighted the key role played by local, regional and national authorities in fostering and protecting cultural heritage. europe's cultural diversity is one of our great treasures and my group, the european free alliance, is committed to safeguarding this diversity. similarly, my party is committed to a culturally cosmopolitan scotland and in government is taking steps to enhance scotland's rich cultural tapestry, be that in our own linguistic diversity or our country's ability to take key decisions in relation to broadcasting. europe can look forward to a culturally rich scotland taking an independent place in the eu.
in writing. − i welcome mr graça moura’s report as a step in the right direction for promoting and preserving europe’s cultural heritage. however, the call for schools to promote european identity, i feel, is contrary to the basic role of education in our society. much more needs to be done, especially to ensure that this cultural heritage is shared as widely as possible. the report requires strengthening and my vote reflected this view.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party is in favour of education in schools about the history of the european union. however, we do not agree that one particular view of european identity and culture should be actively promoted through school syllabuses. therefore, we abstained on this vote, because education should be about informing students rather than promoting any one idea.
in writing. − i share the view mr sacconi outlines in the motion for a resolution on the commission green paper on ‘adapting to climate change in europe’. efforts to adapt to climate change must be made as soon as possible. the international nature of the issue requires concerted european action. the financing of such actions should also reflect this. climate change is happening and, while mitigation efforts are essential, they must be complemented by an eu strategy that allows us to adapt to the effects global warming will have on our everyday lives.
mr president, your speech at our recent part-session in brussels on the events in tibet was extremely well received by the house, and i think it enjoyed the support of all the members present. it quite clearly reflected the public opinion in the european union about the recent repression in tibet. considerable concern was also expressed by the commission and by a number of member states in council. it is surprising, therefore – and to my group disappointing – that the presidency-in-office of the council has decided not to invite the dalai lama to come to brussels to meet ministers. it therefore seems to me all the more important that this house pursue your suggestion that the dalai lama should come, and i wonder whether i might ask you to get in touch with the dalai lama’s office to see whether he could advance the visit from the current schedule foreseen for december to an earlier date, since clearly the interest in this house and in europe in discussing the events in tibet before december is very great. (applause)
mr president, last monday the commission launched its task force report on northern ireland by commissioner hübner, and i am very pleased to see her in the chamber here this evening, so she can at last hear what i have to say on this subject. unfortunately, though this report contains some good points, it did not go far enough to cover this destructural deficit we experienced by lagging so far behind the rest of europe after over 30 years of terrorist violence. it is also most unfortunate that the members of this parliament were not properly consulted or kept informed; this has never happened before – a major opportunity has been missed by the commission and the first and the deputy first minister in northern ireland, and not one extra euro has been given. unfortunately, this has now been seen as a long exercise that did not in the end give any real positive result. mr president, the peace in northern ireland is still fragile. it has come a long way, and it has taken a long time. but it is still fragile, and the difficulties that still lie ahead should not be underestimated. i believe more can be done, more could have been done and more should be done to ensure we provide a very strong base to this peace process that many of us have worked so hard to achieve over such a long period of time.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i believe that all the wrongs committed by totalitarian regimes – whether fascist, communist or stalinist – must be thoroughly exposed. but i am not in favour of criminalising in themselves the denial or condoning of such crimes, whether the holocaust, the shoah, genocide war crimes or crimes against humanity committed by any totalitarian or authoritarian regimes, any more than i am in favour of the criminalising of the so-called public provocation or apology for – or glorification of – terrorism. in all these cases, i believe that freedom of speech should be paramount, and that criminal law should only be brought in when there is clear incitement to hatred, to violence or to terrorism. any freedom of expression is essential to establishing the truth. one theme of the hearing was redress for injustice, and it is not possible to have justice without truth. the greatest illustration of this was in the truth and reconciliation commission in south africa. and i believe that one of the proudest achievements of the european union and its member states in the last decade was the establishment of the international criminal court. but there are still many people walking the planet who are walking with impunity, and i believe that we are not doing enough in europe to bring them to justice. i do not know what happened to the spirit that led the eu to support the international criminal court, when it came to being honest about collusion in torture flights and secret prisons. we have had no satisfactory response from the member states to our report of a year ago about such collusion. we learn in the united states that torture at guantánamo bay and elsewhere was mandated at the highest level of the bush administration. this has led to a tragic loss of moral authority and reputation for the united states. yes, we must bring truth to these crimes – but do not criminalise what needs to be thoroughly discussed.
i am sorry, commissioner, but i was really shocked by your introduction to this debate. you explained to us that the commission had a calm debate on crimes against humanity. you spoke of the complexity of the task and, finally, you said that the european union had little competence in this matter. the wife of your estonian colleague, sim kallas, whom you know very well, was deported by stalin at the age of two months, together with her mother and grandmother. your other colleague, whom we are going to lose, frattini, said in reply to president landsbergis: 'your story - speaking of the suffering of lithuania under stalin - your story is our story.' commissioner, perhaps you could explain things more fully in your reply, because perhaps i have misunderstood. i believe that parliament and the council have done a great deal to commemorate the forgotten dead. because we're not talking to politicians, we're talking to the public. there are still people today in poland, in the baltic countries, who have lost their parents, their grandparents, but no one remembers them. i don't think a debate on the suffering of six million jews can be peaceful. so, timing, style, it's all very important. and as your colleague would say, the history of eastern and central europe is our history. the problem with us, the british, and us, the french, is that we were stalin's allies at the end of the war. and it took the british 30 years to admit that katyn was a stalinist crime. it wasn't hitler who did it.
mr president, there are 4.3 million individuals whose dna is on the uk national dna database and available to police. that is 7% of the uk population – at least five times higher, as a proportion, than in any other country. that figure includes 150 000 children under the age of 16, of whom 25 000 have never been charged with an offence. britain’s most senior police forensics expert has even suggested that children as young as five should go on the dna database if they exhibit behaviour indicating they might be potential criminals in later life. this is taking predictive policing to a ridiculous level. my party believes this to be the realisation of orwell’s ‘big brother’ britain. the dna of innocent people should not be exchanged, and at the very minimum, in line with the advice of the european data protection supervisor, there should be precise limitations on what data can be exchanged and a health warning in that exchange if the person has no criminal record.
mr president, the use of human organs for transplantation has increased steadily over the past decades. organ transplantation is now the most cost-effective treatment for end-stage renal failure. for end-stage failure of organs such as the liver, lung and heart, it is the only available treatment. transplants are one of the most miraculous achievements of modern medicine, but less than 25% of the uk population are registered organ donors. last year, around 2 400 people in the uk benefited from an organ transplant, but more than a thousand die every year whilst waiting for such a transplant. organ shortage is a common dilemma in all european countries, and there is clearly a need to improve the system supporting organ donation across the eu. therefore, i warmly welcome this report, and i especially welcome the expanded section on organ trafficking. a lack of donors has resulted in an exponential growth in transplant tourism to the world’s developing nations. the international black market in organs is attracting people in search of a kidney or other organ, and people living in abject poverty or other vulnerable circumstances are being exploited. they have become a spare parts inventory for the sick. however, when illegal organs transplants are practised, safety is often ignored and the lives of both donor and recipient are put at risk. british newspapers have already exposed several macabre websites aimed at so-called ‘transplant tourists’, including the offer of kidneys from executed prisoners in china. we should not view this as a distant crime. several european nations have also become embroiled in the transplant trade, including moldova, serbia, turkey and russia. governments across europe must do more to prevent this shameful crime, so i would like to congratulate mr amadou on what is a wide-ranging and thoughtful report.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. tonight, there are 700 people in scotland waiting for an organ transplant: that is 700 families waiting for calls that could guarantee their loved ones’ survival. the need for consensus on this sensitive subject is essential, and it is a sad day when member states cannot agree on this. i would like the system of organ donation to be, as mr matsakis has said, a system into which everyone has opted in to donate, unless they have requested to opt out. that would help with the supply side, particularly for the young and those from an ethnic minority, where shortages are most acute. such a system would help save european lives. while i welcome the commission’s action plan, let us make sure that it is not too little, too late.
in writing. – this is a crucial report and a real opportunity to save lives. chronic shortages of organs across europe are causing 60 000 unnecessary deaths. therefore, urgent action is needed: 1. removal of restrictions in organ donation and increased cooperation across member states and the number of quality safe organs available for transplantation. what is required is a commission directive that adds value and sets common eu-wide quality and safety standards which complement existing arrangements in member states. 2. encourage member states to adopt a system of ‘opting out’ rather than ‘opting in’ to organ donation. this would enable greater awareness of shortages, and would allow more people to actively consider their position on the issue. 3. i fully support the emphasis in this report on illegal trafficking of organs. i am especially concerned that it is often the poorest who are targeted for donating organs. we must end this cruel exploitation of poverty and protect the innocent victims who are tricked into losing their organs. this is not just a problem in developing countries but also in eastern europe. i want to see strong measures put in place through europol and interpol to curb this illegal trade.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome marian harkin’s report on volunteering and congratulate her on her collaboration with colleagues in its drafting. over a hundred million eu citizens volunteer, and every one euro spent in supporting them generates a return of between three and eight euros. with 1.2 million volunteers in scotland – with its population of 5 million – and the voluntary sector amounting to 5% of scotland’s workforce, we must publicly recognise volunteers’ efforts throughout scotland and the eu. the report gives credit to volunteers and focuses on the benefits of volunteering for the economy and social cohesion. it rightly demands that this contribution should appear in national accounts. it states that volunteering contributes about as much to gross domestic product in a wide range of countries as the construction industry or the utilities industry. this means that the not-for-profit sector accounts for 5% to 7% of the gdp in some eu countries. volunteering is good for you, your community, your region’s economic development and your national economy. it also helps build the social capital that public policies need to succeed. i urge the european commission to put in place a plan ‘b’ which would ensure valuing, validating and visibility for volunteers throughout scotland and the rest of the eu, and i urge colleagues to support the harkin report.
mr president, can i first of all begin by thanking ms harkin for all her hard work and this insightful and timely report, which was so well received by the regional committee. i fully support the central theme of the report – that volunteering, through its emphasis on participation and solidarity, strengthens civil society and bonds between the communities. i welcome the report’s stance on the role that member states should play regarding volunteers. i fully agree with the position that volunteering should be complementary to – and should not be intended to replace – public services. in this regard, the role that carers play in our societies, in countries all over europe, comes to mind. often these dedicated people are forgotten, even though their care of the elderly and the disabled removes a huge burden from state resources. the report also wisely points out that volunteering can be hugely beneficial for young people, fostering a sense of community and allowing them to develop practical skills which complement their formal education. another point advocated by the report is that special efforts should be made to promote volunteering among senior citizens. the involvement of this age group affords communities an opportunity to benefit from their wealth of experience and reinforces their essential place in society. for me, however, this report has added significance: in my constituency in northern ireland we are in the process of rebuilding a society which has been deeply affected by violence and conflict. although we have now entered a period characterised by peace and greater prosperity, in certain areas of the province the effects of social exclusion, under-development and division are still all too evident. ms harkin’s report specifically acknowledges the positive role volunteering can play in divided societies, and, if we consider the case of northern ireland, the whole concept underpinning the peace process packages has been that people work together on a cross-community basis in order to promote understanding and reconciliation. to a great extent these initiatives have had a positive effect. therefore i hope that parliament’s adoption of this report will ensure that the importance of volunteering is acknowledged and that the commission and member states will do all in their power to facilitate and encourage this practice.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this initiative is a timely strengthening of the statute of the ombudsman, and a signal of confidence in the way that mr diamandouros and his predecessor, mr söderman, have exercised their functions. it also reflects a change in the political climate since the inception of the office of the ombudsman, especially with respect to increased transparency. it would be palpably absurd for us as a parliament to decline to allow the ombudsman full access to documents on the grounds of secrecy. public opinion would be bound to treat such a caveat with great cynicism. i agree with commissioner wallström that it would be splendid if we could conclude these long-standing negotiations under the slovenian presidency, so that we are properly prepared to face voters at the elections in spring 2009. we should be proud of these reforms, which i believe the entire parliament will feel able to support.
mr president, the european institutions are unavoidably more distant from citizens than are national or local institutions. that is why we have the principle of subsidiarity, which states that we should not act at european level if national or local action is perfectly adequate. that is also why we have an institutional system such that when we do act at european level we can offer citizens the guarantee that the institutions operate to the highest degree of openness, democracy and propriety. that is why we have a european parliament, so that europe is not just left to government ministers and technocrats, diplomats and bureaucrats. that is why we have the court of justice, to ensure the rule of law. that is also why we have the ombudsman, so that even those citizens who do not follow our deliberations week in, week out – and there are many of them – can rest assured that we operate to those high standards, and that if there are allegations of maladministration then they will be properly and impartially investigated. however, as commissioner wallström said, citizens must have confidence in the ombudsman’s capacity to do that. even if there have not yet been any cases of officials, when questioned by the ombudsman, having been given instructions from ‘higher-up’ tantamount to censorship, and even if there have not up to now been problems of access to confidential documents, it is important that our citizens see that these things cannot become obstacles, and cannot be used as excuses to hide things from the ombudsman. that is why i welcome the initiative the ombudsman has taken in proposing changes to his statute. my group will be supporting the changes approved by the constitutional affairs committee, and i am sure that parliament as a whole will endorse them whole-heartedly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the oral question that underlies this debate smacks to me of atavistic resentment of a constitutional nature. this house is at its worst if we allow such sentiment to stain our approach to the politics of the european union. i would ask the commissioner to clarify three points for us, and i hope he will come back at the end of the debate and do that. first, that the collision and sinking of the new flame happened not in the bay of gibraltar, which the spanish call the bay of algeciras, but on the south-east side of the rock of gibraltar, off europa point in the mediterranean sea. second, that the new flame incident had nothing to do with the bunkering of oil, as the ship was carrying scrap metal. third, that there have not been seven oil spills, as claimed in the oral question, but one minor spill during a storm on 9-10 february. seven hundred and eighty cubic metres of fuel were pumped off the vessel in the month following the incident, none of which was spilt. i would be grateful if the commissioner would confirm that to the house. if there is oil on the coast, it is more likely to have come from the sierra nava, which broke anchor in a storm earlier in the year, ran aground and leaked oil. perhaps the commissioner would also comment on the cooperation between the gibraltar authorities and the spanish authorities. i believe that cooperation was exemplary. gibraltar is in compliance with all its relevant international obligations, and i would invite my spanish colleagues, particularly from the partido popular, to come with me to that part of my constituency, talk to the authorities and take a look at the wreck. there are indeed legitimate concerns over maritime safety and the danger of pollution, not just at sea, but also of the air and of groundwater, in the busy, heavily-populated industrial area in which gibraltar and its spanish hinterland are found. however, let us not allow the party-political devices of a disappointed opposition to colour our european considerations.
mr president, the commissioner was absolutely right. this is in the territorial waters of gibraltar, and it should go on the record that neither the incident nor the sinking of the new flame was in the bay of gibraltar or algeciras, however you call it. it was off the south-eastern tip of the rock in the mediterranean sea, and that should be clear on the record here.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in the limited time i am allowed to comment on this lengthy report, i would like to make two observations. first, it contains a great many empty platitudes about the supporting paperwork meps should provide to support claims from their parliamentary assistants’ allowance. in the light of recent events it is painfully clear that the arrangements currently in place are wholly inadequate, as they are subject to gross serial abuse by many members. furthermore, it is equally clear that there is no serious intention to do anything about these abuses, as i understand the system will not change before the new parliament convenes in autumn 2009. therefore i cannot take the report’s censorious tones at all seriously. secondly, i draw members’ attention to the rather sinister clause 55 of the report, which reveals that, as from 2008, european political parties may be financed up to 85% from the european parliament budget. it then goes on to point out that this high level of subsidy entails an additional degree of responsibility with regard to their activities. in other words, the eu finances political parties and also controls their activities. this is big brother writ large and provides even more evidence of the disastrous decline of democracy in europe generated by this increasingly totalitarian european union. as a democrat i abhor it, and to those who support it: shame on you.
mr president, it is only right to inform the house and the european investment bank, whose accounts are under review this morning, that their 200 million euros’ worth of soft loans to the british broadcasting corporation – commonly nowadays known as the brussels broadcasting corporation – are now the subject of a criminal investigation by the british police. the bbc faces a prima facie charge of breaching its royal charter, specifically in its failure to provide balanced and objective reporting of current affairs. the eib’s claims that the bbc’s editorial policy has not been influenced by these loans is simply beyond belief. as a result of many years’ research, not least by lord pearson – at his considerable expense – it has become obvious that the bbc has, in effect, been bought by the eib on behalf of the eu. as a result of that, bbc senior management now seem to regard themselves as above the law. we shall see shortly whether scotland yard police agree.
mr president, in 1944 friedrich hayek made the prescient observation that the delegation of particular technical tasks to separate bodies, while a regular feature, is the first step by which a democracy progressively relinquishes its powers. colleagues should ask themselves how much democratic control there is over the various european agencies. we might get the odd committee visit to them, or express general opinions on what their mandates should be, but, in general, the role of this parliament is to vote through the necessary supply, annually and unconditionally. thus, the european union is being run by a standing apparat. to be fair, it is not alone. within many of the member states, my own included, there has been a similar process, whereby elected representatives have given away their powers. what makes the eu unusual is that these various bodies have only the flimsiest of legal bases. true, they would have been authorised by the european constitution. but that constitution – it seems necessary periodically to remind this house – was rejected at the ballot box. therefore, many of these agencies – the human rights agency, the defence agency, the external borders agency and so on – are at best irregular, and at worst illegal. if you want to regularise their status, and to have a proper mandate for them, then put the constitution to the people in the referendum you once promised. pactio olisipio censenda est!
mr president, i have some questions. why is it that, in a parliament committed to openness and transparency, our own authorities keep secret embarrassing reports which reveal the fraudulent practices of members? why is it that there was no requirement for members to account for their use of general expenditure? how much of that money ends up in private pockets? why do we keep secret the names of the 407 members who benefit from eur 27 000 each paid into a voluntary pension fund, amongst them myself? why do we have no controls over those members who embezzle nearly eur 14 000 each year by making private payments into that pension fund from the public purse? is there any reason, other than greed, that prevents those to whom we look for guidance – the bureau and sometimes even the conference of presidents – introducing the genuine reforms that are so long overdue? this failure brings shame upon us all and upon this house.
mr president, i find myself in the very unusual situation of agreeing partly with something that mr hannan said just now, which was when he voiced his concern about the proliferation of agencies. we seem to create agencies more according to the desire of every member state to have one on its territory, and then spread them like confetti around the union, than according to a real and genuine need to do so. if this trend continues, it will indeed lead to governance by agency at the expense, frankly, of the commission, which is our executive and which is accountable to parliament, and much more directly than the agencies, even if we do have more means than mr hannan admitted to control them. where i depart from him of course is when he goes over the top, as he usually does, and claims that these agencies have been created illegally. that is, of course, absolute nonsense. they were all created on the basis of the current treaties, with a proper and due legal base. whether it was wise to do so is another question, and we should certainly be very careful before we create any new agencies in the future.
mr president, on a point of order, i just wondered if anybody in this building knew what ‘gnss’ stood for.
mr president, as we know, this report calls for an extension of the prüm treaty into the fight against cross-border terrorism. we all agree on the need to combat terrorism. that goes without saying. we all agree on the need for cross-border cooperation. however, the prüm treaty is about the enforced sharing of data, regardless of concerns over the protection and security of that data. judging by the newspaper stories on the integrity of police forces in certain member states, we should all be concerned about that sharing of data. the actual content of the report would in fact significantly breach the civil liberties of citizens right across the eu, because the collection and passing-on of dna data to other eu member states becomes obligatory for the first time. we are sleepwalking into a ‘big brother’ europe, while our politicians stand idly by. it was for this reason that we voted against this report.
mr president, do you know, i have never had any sort of power in this place before! i think i would like to opt for ‘great british’ – but no, we will go for ‘global’. i am pretty sure it is ‘global’. i was going to mention that in my agency explanation of vote. i shall now talk on the commission’s discharge for just one minute. as i have done every time since i entered this place, i voted against the discharge for the european commission. i recognise that a lot of work has been going on within the commission to try and sort out its own accounts. however, the work has been going on in systems, it has not been going on within the culture that operates within the european commission. there is still to this day a culture of ‘let’s keep our heads down and not report wrongdoings’ in the european commission. occasionally we all meet people working within the commission who are able to tell us off-the-record things that should not be happening there, but will not go on the record and report it to the heads of their dgs. i know this place does not like turning down discharges. it is a great shame because there is no political consequence. we had a legal opinion on that seven years ago. as i say, i voted against and i shall continue to do so in my time in this place.
i voted against parliament’s discharge in the light of many of the press reports that have stemmed from an internal audit report drawn up by parliament’s services. this report has yet to be published and put out into the public domain. it says that there are some problems with what members do with their different allowances in this place. i think, as members, we should all be as open and transparent as we possibly can. the best way to have dealt with the report would have been to put it in the public domain, because then people would have realised that it is not millions of pounds that are at issue, but a very small amount of money – still worth chasing and policing, and giving the members that abuse the system a great deal of hassle and taking them to the courts over, but not as bad as the general public now think this whole place is. so i voted against, because i think we should publish this report. i hope that parliament’s services, when advising the president of parliament on any future reports, go for maximum transparency and publish as much as possible in the future.
mr president, i could have given an explanation of vote on every agency, but in fact you made my point for me in the voting session. there are now so many agencies that not all of us know what they are and what they do. in fact, i am surprised that anybody in the house, apart from those who sat on the appropriate committee, knew what the gnss supervisory authority does, or even what its budget was. i have great concerns that some of these agencies that we have voted to discharge the accounts for do not actually have any legal basis until the lisbon treaty is passed by all member states. i wonder where the legal basis of the european agency for fundamental rights comes from, for example. so we are now passing accounts for agencies that do not have a legal basis in this place, and no one particularly cares. i find that quite upsetting. i think the european taxpayer would find it quite bemusing, and i happily vote against these agencies, because i think they are anti-democratic. i think that, if we are going to take responsibility for things, it should be done on the floor of this place and not by hiving off powers to quangos that we do not police properly.
in writing. − conservatives have voted against this report as it extends the principles of the prüm initiative into further areas which can be better handled by intergovernmental co-operation rather than harmonisation. the report calls for uniform legal practices at a european level which go wholly against the uk's established legal systems. also the report calls for practices such as the obligatory passing of dna data to other member states, regardless of whether the person is convicted or suspected of a crime, and hot pursuit from foreign police forces, who would have the power to set up surveillance operations, arrest and question individuals, which is a breach of civil liberties.
in writing. − i supported the jäätteenmäki report on the performance of the ombudsman's duties and in particular welcome the changes to the institutions' duty to provide the ombudsman with information required in his work.
in writing. − i share ms anneli jäätteenmäki’s calls for a revision of the statute of the european ombudsman. the measures proposed within the report will increase the transparency of the eu and should be welcomed. i voted in support of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adamou report which deals with an issue of vital importance to all of europe and encourages cooperation between member states on matters relating to organ transplantation. my own country, scotland, has one of the lowest organ donation rates in the eu and the scottish government is working with health departments in the other nations of the uk to improve this situation. i strongly believe in cooperation across the eu which will complement the transplant systems operating in each country and will encourage the highest standards in quality and safety requirements. such cooperation can improve transplant services across europe, ensuring improved access to donated organs on a non-commercial basis.
in writing. − i echo adamos adamou's calls for policy action at eu level in the area of organ donation and transplantation. last year around 2 400 people in the uk benefited from an organ transplant, but more than 1 000 people die every year waiting for a suitable donated organ. consequently, member states must take measures to improve their donor pool, through sharing best practice and increasing awareness of the very serious issue we face regarding organ donation. european governments and institutions must also do more to prevent the shameful trafficking of human organs. the report calls for measures that are essential to discourage transplant tourism and the more general problems we face on this issue, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the need for greater cooperation across member states is essential if we are to help eu citizens who require an organ transplant.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the harkin report recognising the immense contribution of the voluntary sector in promoting social and economic cohesion. the report expressly calls for authorities at the member state, regional and local levels to recognise the value of volunteering, and to work in partnership with voluntary organisations. such cooperation is, i believe, vital and in this context i welcome my own government's recent moves to increase substantially resources available to the voluntary sector across scotland.
in writing. − i welcome ms marian harkin’s report on the role of volunteering in contributing to social and economic cohesion. the contribution volunteering makes to society is invaluable. indeed, the fact that 100 million citizens across our 27 member states are already engaged in voluntary activity is an encouraging figure that should be built upon. i voted in favour of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − volunteering in the eu requires greater recognition. the harkin report sets out ways in which the commission and member states can help volunteering. i hope that the commission will give its backing to 2011 being the european year for volunteering. i would like next year – 2009 – in scotland to be the scottish year for volunteers.
in writing. − the court of auditors has been unable to approve the eu’s books for the 13th year running. although some progress has been made, this must continue to be tackled urgently and vigorously. conservative meps are determined to keep pushing the commission towards substantive reforms that we have long been calling for. there should be zero tolerance of waste, fraud and mismanagement. the commission has political responsibility and we will subject the budgetary control process to rigorous scrutiny. but it is not only the commission that has responsibility for accounting. around 80 per cent of eu money is actually spent in the member states. parliament’s report on the commission’s budget highlights the need for greater controls and coordination at a national level. member states need to take responsibility for these funds through national management declarations. fortunately, progress is being made here but, up to now, too little to ensure a favourable statement of assurance. it is for this fundamental reason that conservatives will once again be voting against the 2006 discharge for the european commission and other institutions.
in writing. − i support mr jørgensen’s report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the european union general budget for the financial year 2006, section iii – commission. cooperation between parliament and the commission on such issues, especially regarding the implementation of the structural funds action plan, is to be welcomed. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted against the motion for a resolution on this report, because i believe it is the height of hypocrisy for members to vote to ban family members from legitimate employment on the one hand, and then refuse to open up details of the taxpayer-funded private pension scheme which they themselves benefit from on the other. this includes, of course, the issue of whether members repay their own contributions that are taken out of the general expenditure allowance paid to members, as allegedly we believe many do not. at best this is not transparent, at worst it is blatant hypocrisy.
in writing. − it is disappointing that members did not vote for more openness and the clear publication of the internal auditors’ report.
in writing. − all the amendments that the eplp supported in plenary today on the discharge of the european parliament’s 2006 budget were aimed at increasing transparency in matters where parliament is responsible for administering public money. amendment 16: following the disclosure of some of the details contained in the report by members of the committee on budgetary control, the eplp believes that, providing that ongoing investigations are not compromised, the publication of this report is in the public interest. amendment 4: the eplp believes that this amendment reinforces the need for action to follow up on actions taken following the internal auditor’s report. amendment 7: the eplp voted in favour of this amendment, as it is important that the budgetary control committee has a right to scrutiny over the plans for both of these statutes. amendment 11: the eplp believes that, as the voluntary pension fund is partly paid through public funds, the list of members should be made public.
in writing. − i voted against this simply because i do not want the eu telling me who i can and who i cannot employ or engage.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr louis michel spoke for the commission but in the place of the council. he has extensive experience in both institutions, fortunately for us. mr president, the past year has seen startling hikes in the cost of basic foods, such that 100 million people are being pushed into poverty and hundreds of thousands put at risk of starvation. so grave is the threat that it will cancel out all progress towards the goal of halving world poverty by 2015. europe's rise in living standards has been rapid, so rapid that even my generation remembers, on our continent, gardens where little grew except the appetites of young children. we must not stand idly by in our privileged position as disaster unfolds. we must give more money to the world food programme now, so that it can feed the destitute, and my group welcomes the commissioner's commitments in this regard. many blame the biofuels. indeed, the united nations special rapporteur has called agrofuels a crime against humanity. yet the reasons for the recent food price rises are many and varied, and so must be the international community's response. world population growth, poor growing conditions linked to climate change, loss of agricultural land to industrial use, immoral commodities speculation and changing eating habits have all contributed to the current crisis. meat consumption in china, for example, has risen from 20 kg per capita in 1980 to 50 kg per capita in 2007, and if every kilogram of beef requires 2,000 square feet of land and 13,000 liters of water, while the same nutritional content can be found from soy at 1% of the land and water use, we begin to see the complexity of the problem. far and away the worst offender is market distortion, which traps poor farmers in a cycle of poverty and gives them little incentive to increase food production. the high standards of sustainability for sourcing and manufacture, written into the european union's biofuels proposals, effectively insure europe against non-sustainable use. so, rather than using biofuels as a scapegoat, we must move to end agricultural protectionism and export restrictions; we must move to enhance agricultural development in the poorest countries and to ensure the success of the doha development round to encourage free, fair and sustainable farm trade at global level. it is the common agricultural policy, not european biofuels, that are the root cause of this problem, and it is cap reform, not dropping biofuels targets, that will solve it. we must also use our collective weight to ensure that climate change and sustainability criteria are integrated with trade policy. the truth is we can afford to feed the world and, as dominique strauss-kahn has said, "global cooperation can deliver the macroeconomic framework and the incentives needed to address the problem". my group believes that with the right political will and the right international cooperation, globalisation can be the solution, not the problem. it is up to the european union to lead the way.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the eu has decided that we can now grow fuel and is telling countries in the developing world that, instead of growing food, they should grow fuel so that the eu can continue to run its limousines. since i became an mep, it is hard to remember any issue which has provoked such a deluge of letters as the subject of biofuels. i have received over a hundred requests to vote against the commission’s renewable energy target. i have not needed much persuading because as a ukip mep i vote against any imposition of eu targets on my country anyway. however, on this occasion, i am happy to vote against it because the dash to biofuels, an essential part of the commission’s strategy, is a key factor in the surge in food prices around the world. british government adviser professor john beddington has said that there are real problems with the unsustainability of biofuels. he is right. we have become so obsessed with global warming that we have overlooked the real elephant in the room – the global food crisis. for farmers in places like africa there is now less land available for growing food because many people are growing fuel instead. it is also leading to the destruction of rainforests with devastating effects. so less land for food equals less food but an increase in the supply of people, which inevitably means an increase in food prices. across the world, and in europe in particular, food prices have been rising far more quickly than inflation. the eu prides itself on taking the lead in environmental matters. will it therefore take the lead in recognising that biofuels are not the answer? biofuels are pushing up prices in shopping baskets around the world. we in the west will groan, grin and bear it; in the developing world, it is a matter of life or death. the eu has never been a friend to the developing world. giant factory ships have emptied the west african seas of fish. dumping of subsidised agricultural surplus has devastated the profit margins of many of their farmers and now, while their populations are increasing, their land, rather than providing food for their own people, is being used to keep our cars on the road. already there have been violent food riots across the world as desperate hungry people attack grain silos and supermarkets. in some countries troops are on the streets to protect what is left of the food. the risk of armed conflict between and within states is greatly increased by the eu’s policies – so much for the eu keeping the peace. what is more useful to a villager in africa? a full petrol tank or a full stomach? please listen to common sense and reverse your policy on biofuels immediately.
mr president, for 30 years we have had some degree of food stability in the world, and now that has come to an end. it is a dramatic end, it is a sudden end, and it is a shocking end. we see the food riots we have heard of in haiti – 20 killed, and the price of rice, beans, fruit, going up 50% in a year. the problem is, of course, partly population growth: in my lifetime the world’s population has gone up from two and a half billion to six and a half billion. we cannot do much about that. it is partly the consequence of new wealth in countries such as china, where the demand for, for example, chocolate is going up 15% a year, and that is unsustainable in terms of the supply. we cannot do much about that. it is partly because of climate change, desertification, changes in rainfall patterns, more flooding and so forth, and we are trying to do something about that. we have a package of measures to tackle that, and of course we have the measures we have heard about today from the commissioner: food aid and farming support for the poorest countries. it is partly, though, a result of the rush into biofuels: the eu proposal of a 10% increase in fuel for transport; in america, the 30% of corn crops now going into ethanol, reducing the land available for food and pushing up the price of cornflour. we have seen the consequences highlighted by the statements by jean ziegler about the crime against humanity. that may be overstating it, but there is an element of truth there, and it is certainly true that we have to look for the second-generation biofuels. we have to look for the woody rather than liquid biofuels for transport. we have to grow biofuels sustainably. if we do that – not through monoculture – then we can find biofuels to be part of the solution. but at the moment they are at great risk of being part of the problem.
mr president, there is now one more challenge for us to meet: to secure our food supply. we have witnessed a massive rise in the price of food and this will remain the position for a considerable time to come. the supply of cheap food has disappeared. i have always been one of those who believed that there was never any such thing as cheap food, but when you direct grain away from food supply to produce energy, then you have changed the balance. what we are seeing now is the knock-on effect of that. we all know the reason for this, but it will be those countries who can afford it least that will be affected the most. there is no need any more for set-aside, and we now have a moral duty to encourage our farmers to produce more to ensure that prices do not spiral out of total control and that many regions of the world do not suffer starvation. we must look again at the health check to ensure that we can respond to the changed situation. this will have a bitter-sweet effect on farmers and their families. for years, they have been ridiculed about milk lakes and butter mountains. where are they now? they are all gone. in europe, we now have only 27 days of food supply left, as mr daul told us earlier this afternoon. yes, i believe we must look at the situation regarding the standards for gmos. we cannot turn a blind eye to this any more. we are over-regulating ourselves out of the marketplace. we have placed such constraints on our farmers that many have just given up and walked away. we need more production or there will be a disaster. we must encourage our farmers to produce that extra food. this was not predicted, nor was it foreseen by anyone, no matter how hard they may now try to look back and tell us that they did. the truth is that it has come upon us. we must now respond to it.
mr president, we are facing a situation now that we have sleepwalked into, because for too long food was too cheap: it was below the cost of production. three years ago wheat was eur 90 per tonne, which was below the cost of production. now it is about eur 270 per tonne, and it is profitable to produce. i am not as pessimistic as many speakers here today, because if the market is paying the right price for food, then it will be produced. therefore, we have to free up that market. europe can produce food: farmers in europe have been dying for the opportunity to produce food, but for 20 years they have been told that there was too much food in the world and, therefore, food production had to be reduced. therefore, we have to use biotechnology to help us increase food production, we have to reduce bureaucracy and, in the mean time, we have to help the poorest in the world through this short-term crisis, because that is what it is. in a country like zimbabwe in africa, it is also about good governance: if a madman is controlling the country, it will never be fed.
mr president, i have sat in this house since 1994, and have to say i do not think i have ever heard so much hypocrisy from people. years ago we were criticised, as jim nicholson said, for the over-production of food. now we are being criticised because food has reached what is probably a realistic and genuine price. but what can we do about this? well, commissioner, there is something you can do, and you could do it tomorrow, if you had the will to do so. that is, first of all, to stop the anti-dumping legislation on phosphate and potash, in particular, and nitrogen, coming into the european union and going to the rest of the world. mr mandelson put that legislation in place and it is causing a huge problem, because you need three things to produce food: sun, water and also nitrogen, phosphate and potash. third world countries cannot produce food unless they can get this at an affordable price, and at the moment it has risen from about gbp 80 a tonne to something like gbp 500 a tonne. if you do something about that, then you will be helping the rest of the world.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, let us be honest. the eu satellite radio navigation programmes are an unmitigated disaster. the private sector has been quick to spot the pig in a poke and has shown galileo a clean pair of heels. but is the eu prepared to accept the obvious and abandon the project? no, far from it. instead, we have this report, which advocates not only that the project should go charging ahead, but that the european taxpayer should pick up the entire cost. it asks for, in this case, a massive increase in the budget, from gbp 120 million to gbp 715 million. in other words, we are seeing the beginning of an open-cheque-book situation for this shameful project. the united states has its own satellite system, gps, and therefore the eu must have one as well; this is the guiding principle behind galileo. it is kindergarten policy-making which defies common sense, has no credible economic justification and is morally and environmentally corrupt. this institution spends a great deal of time discussing the environment and bringing forward hair-shirt measures designed to force people living in europe into a kind of permanent guilt-ridden existence over their carbon footprint. yet here we are pushing forward a project whose impact on the environment will be almost beyond calculation. has anyone stopped to consider the carbon footprint of launching into orbit the 30 satellites required by the galileo system, which will require the burning of massive amounts of rocket engine propellant? the eu’s environmental credentials are already highly questionable, because of the depredations of the cfp and the cap, not to mention the unnecessary provisions of parliament’s two buildings, here and in brussels. i call upon all members here today, especially those who see themselves as environmental warriors, to examine their conscience and to oppose this colossal white elephant. we do not need to duplicate facilities already available from the american gps, and we certainly should not inflict so much unnecessary carbon pollutant upon this environment.
mr president, the commissioner will doubtless be aware that a couple of weeks ago the mccann family from my constituency came to the european parliament. they had been engaged in correspondence with commissioner frattini beforehand about the amber alert system for child abductions. i was just wondering what stage that project has reached within the commission now that mr frattini has left and parliament is busy signing a written declaration pushing this idea forward. we were just wondering whether the commission is taking this on board, whether it is being pushed forward and which commissioner has responsibility for it at this point in time.
member of the commission. - let me quickly return to my opening statement. it is precisely the question of early school leaving and the acquisition of basic skills that the commission is currently focusing on, in particular in the work of my colleague, commissioner figeel. you are right, the key is that a person acquires basic competence in early childhood and early adolescence and among other things the ability to learn, because it then gives him the opportunity to pursue his career in life more easily and with greater success. in programmes such as those funded by the european social fund, we focus on what i would call a second chance, which is to give children who have had problems, and there are quite a few of them, the opportunity to re-enter formal structures and complete their education. it is indeed one of the commission's main areas of activity, because, as i said, it is crucial.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the european union has set up a broad framework to combat discrimination and can be proud of the results it has achieved. however, the level of protection is higher for some groups of people than for others. in concrete terms, this means that people are protected against discrimination on the grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or religion, but only in the workplace in this way. only protection against discrimination based solely on racial or ethnic origin and sex is more extensive. as announced in the commission's 2008 work programme, the commission plans to present a proposal based on article 13 of the ec treaty to apply the principle of equal treatment outside the labour market and to extend the existing eu legal framework. details will be decided upon when, inter alia, the results of the impact assessment study currently underway are available. the results will be available shortly. however, the commission is well aware of the need to strike a balance between the principle of non-discrimination and differences in treatment which may be justified in certain circumstances. different types of preferential treatment exist in the member states, which are intended to grant special treatment to certain groups for specific reasons and do not constitute discrimination. preferential treatment may, for example, be granted to older persons, for example in the form of free travel on public transport, thereby promoting mobility. the commission does not intend to consider these practices illegal when they are enshrined in national law for legitimate social, educational, cultural or other reasons.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for that assurance at the end of his statement that the commission does not intend that what he described as ‘preferential treatment’ will be adversely affected. i think that is welcome. if the work as he describes it continues and he can strike the right balance, i think that will be welcome in all countries in the european union. i thank him for that assurance. whilst i have the floor, on a related matter, does the commissioner have any idea when he expects to publish his proposal on a decision to accede to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which of course fits into this same category?
member of the commission. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a convention that has also come to light thanks to the coordinated efforts of the european union during the luxembourg presidency. i'm sure without our efforts, this convention would not have been possible. its ratification is, of course, a matter for the member states and the european union is trying to encourage and accelerate this ratification in discussions with the member states. the second question you asked, when will we translate our initiative: the estimated deadline is sometime before the end of june this year, but it is really only an interim deadline.
mr president, i would like to direct the commissioner to religious discrimination and to the amazing fact that, despite the eu’s protection against religious discrimination, there is one place in the eu where religious discrimination is permitted. sadly it is my constituency of northern ireland where by reason of a derogation from eu legislation – permitted by the eu – it is expressly declared that it is lawful to discriminate against protestants when it comes to recruiting to the police service of northern ireland. can the commissioner tell us when this preposterous situation will end and the rights which others enjoy will be restored to my constituents?
very briefly, i am reassured, as was the questioner, robert evans, about what the commissioner intends about any future legislation. but the question specifically talked about the potential dangers of unintended consequences. given the sensitivity of this area, could the commissioner please confirm, before any future legislation in this area is developed to a final position, that any impact assessment would be particularly rigorous and done in advance?
i guess that a lot of that is, maybe, as i suspected. but perhaps you can resolve another little problem for me. from time to time, i am actually told that the cod that are in the english channel are not officially recognised as being there as an indigenous stock. if that is the case, then the fishermen from the south-east coast of england will become even more irritated by being told they cannot catch cod that theoretically do not exist, although, in fact, the supply there is quite plentiful. could you resolve this for me and let me know to what extent the cod in the channel have been taken into account in the latest eu statistics? i appreciate you may not come with all this information prepared, so i will accept it in writing if necessary.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank mr gklavakis for his comments. i would like to appeal to members of parliament to support the commission in this drive in order to try to bring about a measure of harmonisation of the sanctions regime. i had a first exchange of views in council only last week on a related area, which is the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in the ieu proposal, we are trying to harmonise the provisions – the sanctions regime, so to speak. although all member states unanimously agree that we need to effectively fight illegal fishing, when it came to discussing the details on the reach of the proposal, on the harmonisation of the sanctions and on how we can see to it to control the importation of illegally processed fish products, i think there was almost unanimity in finding problems with our proposals. obviously i will be taking this up with the member states during the coming months. i envisage that when we come to the whole control regulation – which also encompasses the ieu – it is going to be much more of a tough encounter. i hope that parliament, in the report that it intends to draw up on the new control proposal, which i will be hopefully presenting to the college for adoption later this year, will give it its full support.
member of the commission. − i thank the honourable member for the question. i would say that the commission is well aware of the unprecedented situation caused by the spread of bluetongue in several member states in recent years and is making strenuous efforts to combat this disease. last january, at the conference on bluetongue vaccination arranged by the commission, it clearly emerged that vaccination is the main, most effective veterinary measure to combat bluetongue. in order to achieve a harmonised eu approach, the commission swiftly issued guidelines and criteria for vaccination plans, while leaving the member states the necessary flexibility to adapt the vaccination strategy to their particular situation. the commission then assessed the plans submitted by the member states, approved them and ensured a first financial contribution of up to eur 64 million out of a total of eur 130 million for the whole exercise. all these actions reflect the importance that the commission attaches to the vaccination. the community is also supporting several bluetongue research programmes. under the fifth and sixth framework programmes, two specific projects were devoted to the development of a safe, efficacious bluetongue virus vaccination strategy. the eu contribution was eur 1.7 million and eur 804 000 respectively. these actions will have continuity in the seventh framework programme. however, at present scientists do not consider that the development of anti-viral treatments would effectively reduce the losses caused by this disease.
member of the commission. − we believe that the disease will spread throughout the whole of europe in 2008. that is why the commission is taking very strict measures to contain the disease and, as i said, the best way to fight it is a vaccination. we have spent and are spending quite a lot of money to assist member states with regard to the vaccines and the vaccination.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner: bluetongue has rapidly spread throughout the european union, and you have said that vaccination is the best way, but would the commission not, even at this stage, consider that in any area which has not to date been affected by the disease they be allowed to ban imports of animals into their region or area, in cases where herds have been proven to have the disease – where it has been confirmed? surely that would be a sensible thing to do, so that people – even voluntarily – do not import from an area that has been affected into a region that is unaffected, because it is spreading rapidly. you say that it is inevitable, but i think we should do that.
my welcome too, commissioner. given what you were saying about the last food and veterinary office report and the problems with unreported outbreaks, major flaws being identified in traceability and identification – indeed systemic failures – and the fact that the brazilian authorities could not put in place guarantees, despite the new measures which you have implemented, surely it seems unlikely that the regionalisation policy for the control of foot-and-mouth disease in brazil is working at all, and whether it can possibly even be made to work. is this not unlikely, commissioner?
mr president, i believe that the commission first published a guidance document on the implementation of the posting of workers directive back in 2006, and at the time the socialist group – in response – led a call in parliament for a toughening up of the directive. the commission did not feel this was necessary then and clearly does not feel it is necessary now, and for the record i agree with it. the problem lies, as the commission has so clearly defined, in weaknesses in national implementation, in insufficient cooperation between member states and in poor supply of information. toughening up eu legislation would not address these weaknesses. in fact it would make them even more difficult to address. finally, i would observe that the commissioner confirms full commitment to protect workers’ rights and to fight against social dumping. we should all agree with that on all sides of the house, but we should also agree that there is another right to be protected: the right of all workers to be mobile, to be posted and to provide services across borders. the rights of social protection must go hand in hand with the right to provide services, and there need be no contradiction. it is, of course, a major challenge to get the right balance. however, the challenge is for member states to resolve, not by the eu proposing tougher laws. i suggest that the commissioner has pointed the way and invite him to agree with me that our role as meps should be to get each of our own countries to follow.
mr president, let me say how much i agree with mr brok and how much i disagree with mr bushill-matthews, but i will come to that in a moment. i would like to thank the commissioner for the recommendation adopted on 3 april. it is an important step in the right direction. i believe that the more effective exchange and access to information and the exchange of best practice will certainly help, but it was one of those strange quirks of timing that the recommendation was adopted on the same day that the rüffert judgment was handed down. i think the laval and rüffert cases in particular require us to go much further than that recommendation now. those cases raise the prospect that the economic freedoms can be interpreted as granting undertakings the right to evade or circumvent national, social and employment laws and practices. the only protection, it seems, are the provisions of the posted workers directive. if that is the case, then it is clear that we need to revisit the directive. in particular, we need to clarify the scope for collective agreements, to set mandatory standards, and for collective action to enforce those standards. i think we need to do a number of things. we need to ensure that host country collective agreements can provide for higher than minimum standards. we need to make mandatory what are currently only options for member states, such as applying all generally binding collective agreements to posted workers. i think we also need a clear time limit for the definition of a posted worker, so that there is a clear idea of when a posted worker ceases to be a posted worker. finally, for now, i think we need to broaden the legal base of the directive to include freedom of movement of workers, as well as the freedom to provide services. that was a proposal which was rejected back in 1996, but i hope we can see now how important it is. it is the court that has said that the right to strike and the right of association are fundamental rights, but not as fundamental as the economic freedoms. trade unions might be forgiven for thinking that they are suddenly living on animal farm. we owe it to them to restore a proper balance. i think these modest proposed changes to the posting of workers directive would be a start.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i should like to thank ms gomes for the huge amount of work she has done on this report and her close cooperation with colleagues. the report is very wide-ranging, so i must focus on just a few issues. in particular, i welcome the call for the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to outlaw all illegally sourced timber and timber products from the eu market. this is essential to stop trade by the back door of chinese furniture made from illegally logged african timber. such trade not only puts african tropical forests at risk but also deprives african countries of much-needed tax revenue. the world bank estimates that illegal logging costs developing countries usd 15 billion a year in lost revenue. secondly, i fully support the rapporteur in calling for the eu to adopt a legally binding instrument on controlling arms exports and to maintain its arms embargo on china. since the report was written, we have had graphic evidence, as a number of colleagues have mentioned, that china is still exporting arms to countries like zimbabwe, which are perpetrating gross violations of human rights. on wider trade issues, i personally support the mention of economic partnership agreements (epas) in the report. epas are not irrelevant, because if they were more flexible and more clearly development friendly, they could serve as a model for china-africa trade. as it stands, china risks pushing africa back into the commodity trap. finally, i applaud the report’s appeal for multilateral dialogue between the eu, africa and china. this is particularly important in relation to climate change. the commissioner mentioned the example of photovoltaics. no continent is more vulnerable to global warming than africa, and the future of millions of africans may depend on the eu bringing china into the post-kyoto agreement and sharing renewables technology.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague, ms gomes, on an excellent report. this report strengthens our relationship with china, which is necessary to underpin the global economy. until recently, and for thousands of years, china only exercised soft power, as we now do in the eu, but china is changing. she is a superpower, both economically and militarily, and she is in transition. our relationship with china must be based on respect. it cannot be a relationship where either party feels entitled to lecture or hector the other. we ended the cold war by engaging with the soviet union and we brought peace to europe. similarly, we must engage with china at all levels. we must preserve the institutions that underpin our rules-based global liberal economy and values, otherwise we are finished. this means china playing a full and active role in all the post-war bretton woods institutions that we have so carefully built. it also means working with china to strengthen the rules of the international order so that it serves our interest and hers. by 2020, china’s economy will be the largest in the world. we now have a choice. either we empower china to play a full and active role in the liberal open-to-all rules-based multilateral institutions built after bretton woods – and this includes the eu, the acp, rio, bali, in addition to the un, wto, imf and the world bank – or, we force china, through our short-termism, to withdraw and inevitably, in time, to destroy these institutions and build her own, to suit her superpowers, institutions. that is why this report is so timely. that is also why – and i am being controversial here – the olympic games in beijing are so important, because this is the first time in history that china is engaging with the whole world. that is why it must be a great success, not only for china, but for the whole participating world. our task at the beginning of the 21st century is an enormous one. it has never been done before in the entirety of our common human history, but it must be done. that task is to engage the oldest and largest nation on earth in all the affairs of the planet earth as our partner.
mr president, i want to know if the commission and the council will give an assurance that the eu will not, as part of the negotiations, allow access to eu databases like the schengen information system and the visa information system (vis). as rapporteur on the vis, i achieved a general ban on transfers to third countries from the vis database, and i want to know if that is threatened in any way. secondly, do the commission and council accept that going down this blind alley of mass surveillance and collection of personal data on everybody – 99% of whom will be completely innocent – risks being a distraction from trying to catch the 0.1% who may be a terrorist danger or an organised crime suspect? today, a top anti-mafia prosecutor in italy is warning that mafia crime is spreading its tentacles across europe because it is being neglected for lack of proper cross-border cooperation and criminal justice systems not working together. is that not our top priority? and it is not being done because it is a harder nut to crack.
rapporteur. − mr president, there are no amendments to the common position. that is thanks to the excellent work between the parliament, council and commission and the work particularly of my shadows, mrs wallis and mr gauzès of the ppe-de group, who took a very strong line with the council and commission. i think it has been over a year since we agreed this proposal but it is the mediation experts and professionals in this sector whose response to the parliament’s first ever online consultation convinced us of the merits of this law. i know that they will now welcome today’s vote in bringing these proposals into legislation. too often we see cases where a marriage or a relationship involving children goes wrong and constituents end up with years of court procedures and massive legal fees. one of my constituents with a greek partner amassed legal bills and had to go through the court system for three years to get her children back. mediation can therefore be a valuable tool for citizens to achieve access to justice and potentially reduce the cost of dispute resolution without the often acrimonious process of going to trial. it has the added benefit of freeing up court time for cases that require a court judgment. this new law should assist people across europe in getting quick, affordable access to justice. i therefore urge members to support the second reading and open up new avenues of redress and remedies for citizens across the eu. (applause)
mr president, i voted against this report. i listened to the same debate that the previous speaker listened to yesterday, and i can be nothing other than horrified by what i heard: a bizarre bidding war for an agency that does not need to exist. we are inventing a new satellite system because the european union needs some sort of fashionable item of jewellery – this galileo project is like bling for the european union. it is expensive; it is not particularly needed; it is anti-competitive; we had a deal with the chinese, and there is a russian system and a gps system already in existence. europe does not need this system, yet we are going to pay for it. as we saw from the discharge votes yesterday, we will not police how money on this particular system is spent and, therefore, we will waste millions upon millions of european taxpayers’ euros and pounds. it beggars belief that we have gone into this bizarre system just because it is a kind of vanity cause for us.
mr president, as i listened to the debate yesterday i thought of the queen song bohemian rhapsody and those immortal words ‘galileo, galileo’. and i thought of the words of the lyrics of that song. ‘is this the real life? is it just fantasy? caught in a landslide, with no escape from reality, open your eyes, look up to the sky and see’. the chinese came. they saw. they walked away and are building their own system. the russians are modernising their own system, glonas, and to top it all the american gps, which we already use for free, is being upgraded to be even more accurate and more user-friendly. we should not be wasting hard-earned taxpayers’ money on a fourth satellite system that offers no advantage over the others. and if i may mix my metaphors, let us shoot this white elephant from the sky. i voted against the report.
mr president, i, too, voted against the barsi-pataky report. this is simply a political vanity project, a bit like the euro, and like the euro it has no economic and no technical justification. it is unnecessary; it is redundant; it is already becoming obsolescent. as my colleague has already pointed out, the private sector came and looked at it and decided they wanted no part of it, because it did not make sense. the chinese came and looked at it, took the best ideas away and decided they would get a better result by doing it themselves and, considering the potential military applications of a global positioning system, the fact that the chinese have gone off and done it should give us all pause and cause us considerable concern. we should not waste any more taxpayers’ money on this pointless political gesture.
mr president, when the galileo project was conceived, president chirac described it as necessary to combat us technical imperialism. that, in truth, is the only possible argument for it. i have no intention of reprising the arguments we have just heard from my three honourable friends: it makes no economic sense; it makes no technical sense; we are getting free use of the american gps. the point i really want to make – and i would appeal to my integrationist colleagues in this house, because i do not think you have to be a eurosceptic to be worried about this – is this: look at what happened in yesterday’s debate, when my honourable friend, mr heaton-harris, asked us what we were voting on and nobody in the chamber was able to name the agency to which we had just voted through supply. you are doing yourselves no favours, even as supporters of the european project, if you hand your taxpayers’ money to these schemes with a ‘europe right or wrong’ attitude, without stopping to look at whether it is being efficaciously spent or whether it is being lost or stolen. i would appeal to all my colleagues to try and give their taxpayers some value for money from their own point of view.
mr president, i have a particular interest in this report because in a previous professional life as an academic i looked at both chinese foreign direct investment, inwards and outwards, and african investment and development. looking at the report, and it is actually quite a fair report, i think as eu and member states of the eu we should welcome chinese investment in africa, particularly investment in infrastructure, because investment in infrastructure allows local entrepreneurs and local citizens to create wealth for themselves and to trade their way out of poverty. at the same time we should also be aware of the chinese thirst and hunger for natural resources – their sort of resource-seeking motives. we should seek to work with china and to tackle those issues, particularly when dealing with unsavoury governments. one of my concerns over chinese policy is the fact that it destroys the eu’s attempts, and other aid donors’ attempts, to offer conditionality or put conditionality on aid. we can suggest all the conditions on aid in order to ensure better governance, but the chinese come in and destroy that. overall it is a fair report and i voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome the prospect of galileo finally being launched. ms barsi-pataky’s report on the further implementation of the european satellite radionavigation programmes signals a development, the benefits of which will be felt in areas ranging from european space policy, research and innovation to the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i support ms roure’s report on the extension of the scope of directive 2003/109/ec to beneficiaries of international protection. what the report sets out to achieve is to ensure that beneficiaries of international protection are entitled to the same rights as those we enjoy as eu nationals, after five years of legal residence in the eu. i find this a logical amendment of the previous directive and have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − drug abuse is a prominent problem in societies across europe, and scotland is no exception. mr catania’s recommendations regarding the role of civil society in drugs policy in the eu rightly call for a more concerted european approach to this issue that knows no borders. civil society is a key player in tackling all facets of this problem and its initiatives should be benefiting from eu support. the rapporteur’s recommendations need to be heeded if we are to construct an effective policy that fights drug abuse on all fronts. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i welcome the carlotti report on the implementation of the programming of the 10th european development fund (edf). to ensure that the edf’s goals of poverty eradication in partner countries and regions and the pursuit of the millennium development goals are achieved a stronger parliamentary scrutiny of its delivery instruments is required. i further agree with the idea that the programming of the fund should pay particular attention to mdg-related areas such as health, education, respect of the environment and encouragement of good governance. the current ratification difficulties the 10th edf is encountering need to be addressed in order to facilitate swift implementation of the fund. i voted in support of the report.
in writing. − mr meijer’s progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia’s movement towards accession is a balanced report on a divisive issue. fyrom must continue with a reform-driven agenda in order to ensure that accession negotiations can be started as soon as possible. to preserve a negotiating position on the name issue we must avoid any temptation to use fyrom’s naming as a hurdle to its involvement in international institutions. i therefore welcome the report and the rapporteur’s efforts in ensuring that the naming issue did not dominate the document.
in writing. − british labour meps are pleased to have voted in favour of this resolution, which marks a genuine effort to maintain the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) towards eu membership highlighting positive movements in combating corruption and protecting the freedom of media as well as pressing for the further actions necessary towards the opening of accession negotiations. we note that there has been considerable progress, and look forward to the possibility of opening accession talks with fyrom. in relation to amendment 13 on the name issue negotiations, we voted against this amendment. although we fully support all the work being done to find a resolution to the name issue, we do not believe that this should be linked in anyway to fyrom’s membership of international organisations. each should be decided on its own merits. secondly, we abstained on the vote on amendment 7 discussing the issue of visa liberalisation. as the uk is not a party to the schengen agreement under which this issue rests, it was not appropriate for us to support this amendment.
in writing. − ana gomes’ report on china’s policy and its effects on africa highlights both the positive move beijing has made by engaging with africa, while also making the point that china’s policy requires improvements. on the one hand the eu must welcome china’s development role in africa though, worryingly, through its aid china is exporting some of its worst home practices including corruption and disregard for labour rights and environmental standards. indeed, engagement with china, on these issues and its relationship with repressive regimes such as sudan and zimbabwe, requires a common eu approach. it is with these views in mind that i voted in favour of the report’s recommendations.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we are discussing burma today, because the european union’s targeted sanctions are due for renewal in five days’ time and the burmese authorities are pressing ahead with a referendum on their sham constitution in just over two weeks. we want to make a sincere appeal to the burmese regime to take a step that is very much in its own interest as well as the interests of the burmese people: to take the necessary action to rejoin the international community of nations. the policy of suspicious isolation has been tried for almost the whole of burma’s life as an independent state and it has failed. it has harmed burma and it has harmed the burmese people. in 1948, burma was the world’s largest exporter of rice, the producer of 75% of the world’s teak and the wealthiest country in south-east asia. it was believed to be on the fast track to development. today, it has a gdp per capita lower than rwanda or bangladesh. the burmese economy urgently needs assistance from international financial organisations, yet, ever since burma turned in upon itself and away from democracy, the asian development bank, the world bank and the international monetary fund have all, quite rightly, refused to extend any further financial help. the refusal of the burmese regime to engage with external realities has led countries across the world to impose economic sanctions. burma needs friends to help protect its national interests on the global stage, but even asean has now declared, again quite rightly, that it will no longer defend the burmese authorities in any international forum. we say to the burmese government: the world is not against you if only you will stop turning your back against the world. you do not need to be frightened of the international community any more than you need to fear your own people. you do not need the ninth largest army and the fifteenth largest military budget in the world. you do not need to live in a bunker. recognise the democratic aspirations of your people, cease the political repression and enable opposition forces to engage fully and freely in a fresh constitutional process.
mr president, i welcome the statements of the council and of the commission this afternoon, but with 700 political prisoners detained following last year’s demonstrations and general than shwe having refused to meet un special envoy gambari, renewing our common position six months later is necessary – but it is not enough. why not extend sanctions to oil and gas, where the regime is making its core funding? if the united states imposes sanctions on finance and banking, denying foreign currency to the regime, why does the european union not do so? what steps can be taken to enable humanitarian access to eastern burma, where 3 000 villages are reported razed to the ground and where european aid agencies are ready to act? buddhist monks have written ‘no’ on their monastery walls to send their message to burmese civilians for the constitutional referendum in may. europe’s message to burma must also be a resounding ‘no’ to dictatorship and ‘yes’ to democracy.
mr president, burma is one of those issues which quite properly generates considerable input into meps’ mailboxes. i see parallels between burma and zimbabwe. both were once thriving economies. both then turned from democracy to oppression and all that goes with it: the denial of basic freedoms, extreme poverty and oppressive militarism. but i also see a parallel in the eu’s response to both burma and zimbabwe. both, frankly, are far too timid in that regard. we heard from the commission and the council today, but what really had they got to say to us? very, very little. i say we must be much more robust. we must step up the economic and the other sanctions and we must put in place a proper and total arms embargo. we must apply pressure where maybe it will have the most effect: on those regimes, those sympathisers, like china, who are propping up this junta. only then, particularly when we deal with those who have an attitude of ambivalence to the military junta, can it change.
in writing. – i sincerely welcome this resolution which demonstrates parliament's continued concern with the situation in burma. we have a responsibility to ensure that events in this country do not 'fall off the radar'. it is a well known fact that despite plentiful resources and fertile land, burma remains one of world's poorest countries. it is also widely accepted that the military junta are responsible for a catalogue of human rights abuses, including the brutal treatment of buddhist monks who protested against the regime. in light of recent developments, notably the military junta's intention to force through a wholly undemocratic and illegitimate constitution, it is high time that the european union exercises all its influence in order to attempt to improve the situation. the time for simply debating the situation in burma within the international arena is over. negotiations between the un and the burmese authorities have proved to be entirely ineffective. targeted sanctions on the junta and businesses connected to it are now urgently required. i fully support this resolution which calls on council to put into force broader and tougher sanctions on the burmese military regime. in this regard, i sincerely hope that our words are followed by actions.
madam president, member states have both a right and a duty to control their borders properly, to manage immigration and to cooperate between themselves and through the european union, whether or not they are in schengen, which, sadly, my country is not. that means that they must cooperate with frontex and through frontex, insofar as they are legally allowed to do so, and must support the so-called rabits – the mobile border guards – and make sure that frontex is properly resourced. but well-managed borders should not mean the inhumane treatment of migrants or negligence of the need to respect refugee law by giving access to an asylum determination procedure. therefore, we should parallel having mobile border guards by having asylum expert teams, who could be deployed at short notice to deal with large influxes of would-be migrants, and making sure that they individually assess any potential claims. frontex cannot be a substitute for a comprehensive migration system – which we still do not have – which covers illegal immigration and legal migration and which has proper legal migration channels, as well as preserving the asylum channel. lastly, i am wary of the trend to mix immigration and criminality. the term ‘border security’, which is often used, tends to suggest automatically that immigrants are a threat. most of them are not. they may not have a legal entitlement to come, but that does not necessarily mean that they are criminals.
just because you have written it down does not mean to say that you have to read it out if the time does not allow for it.
mr matsakis, in fact, both ms doyle and your group had given the times i gave, so it is your group’s submission and their bad communication to you, because i have always applied the rule that, if a member speaks in a language other than his own, i always give him extra time – and not just in english.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is question time (b6-0019/2008). the following questions are addressed to the council.
thank you, minister. perhaps you will be able to investigate on your way home tonight.
question no 3 by hélène goudin (h-0161/08) subject: lisbon treatyarticle 1, paragraph 24, relating to chapter 1, article 10 a, paragraph 2, (principles and aims) states that the union shall '(f) help develop international measures to preserve and improve the quality of the environment and the sustainable management of global natural resources, in order to ensure sustainable development'. does the council consider that this provision implies that an eu ban on a particular environmental measure which goes beyond a fully harmonised level may be regarded as contrary to the treaty?
minister, we have had many estimations given to us in this house as to how similar the old constitution and the proposed new lisbon treaty are. could you give us your own view as to how similar the two documents actually are?
i am going to take one more supplementary question on this particular question. we have had a whole spate of indications, but i take into account political balance and who has asked a question already.
question no 4 by marian harkin (h-0163/08) subject: lisbon treaty is the council satisfied that questions submitted by the slovenian presidency to the member states, which included thirty-three points on the lisbon treaty that needed clarification, have been adequately responded to?
president-in-office of the council. − i will make an exception and speak english, ms harkin, in order to avoid any further controversy and to make myself maximally clear on the issues you raised. first, taxation: at present, every member state has a veto on issues related to taxation, be it the common corporate tax base, tax harmonisation or any other taxation issue, and that will remain the case after the lisbon treaty enters into force. the lisbon treaty does not change that. in the area of taxation, the method of decision-making remains the same: decisions can only be taken by consensus of all member states, including, of course, ireland. concerning your other question, the same applies: the energy mix, the choice of sources of energy is, and will remain, within the domain of sovereign decisions by member states. each member state is free to choose nuclear power, to include nuclear power in its energy mix and each member state is free not to choose it. that is going to remain the same after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
given that the member states have sought clarification on certain points of the lisbon treaty, i wonder if i could also seek clarification, specifically on the ‘passerelle clause’. there are many areas where the eu seeks competence but has no legal basis, and that has been the subject of much criticism and scrutiny over the years, but are you not concerned that, with the ‘passerelle clause’, the eu can gain new competences without the need to consult national parliaments? are you not concerned that this actually undermines national parliaments and democracy across the european union?
can the minister comment on why it was thought necessary to introduce a moratorium during the irish referendum on bad news from brussels and on any new controversial proposals from brussels? is fear of the people so great that the council and the commission think it better to keep them in the dark? can you tell us what proposals are subject to this moratorium and, specifically, whether they include anything relating to harmonisation of corporate tax calculations, and, if so, why?
we now move on to two questions, which will be answered jointly, concerning human rights in china, the first from ms doyle and the second from mr evans.
the minister said he had not received satisfactory answers from the chinese authorities so far. in the weeks and months ahead, will he follow up forcefully what he has asked already and for which he has not received answers? he will be aware that in the run up to their olympic bid, china made many promises about improvements to their human rights record, assurances which to date, we know, have not yet been met. now is the opportune time to act in the pre-olympic period because afterwards will be too late. on 15 may when they have these discussions, will they actually be discussing what positive steps they can take to press china on freedom of speech, the rights of journalists and the right to free demonstration and so on? will he press them also on their use of capital punishment? because what statistics there are show that china is executing more people than the rest of the world put together at the moment. we cannot have the olympic games there without putting this message as forcefully as possible to the chinese authorities.
i would just like to follow up on the question asked by my colleague, mr evans. if the chinese do not address the issues outlined by my colleague satisfactorily, what action does he believe the council and eu member states should take? if he feels that he cannot answer that at the moment, what actions would he suggest the council seek to take? or will we just sit idly by and meekly accept whatever the chinese tell us and simply attend the olympics? what action should we take?
question no 7 by koenraad dillen (h-0233/08) subject: tibet the eu responded strongly to the violent suppression of the riots in myanmar some time ago. economic sanctions were imposed and a special eu envoy was appointed for the country. in the case of china, the council is expressing itself with far more restraint. indeed, the spokeswoman for the eu's high representative for foreign affairs, mr javier solana, went so far as to say: 'relations between the eu and china are completely different to relations between the eu and myanmar.' does the council consider there to be a difference between myanmar and china as regards the massive violations of human rights and the violent action of the authorities? can the council inform me what improvements have been brought about by the political dialogue with regard to the human rights situation and the position of the tibetan language and culture? what is the council's view of the proposal by amnesty international that international observers should be admitted to tibet so that an investigation can be carried out?
question no 8 by colm burke (h-0167/08) subject: human rights in chad can the council state exactly how it is increasing diplomatic pressure for a ceasefire in chad to protect beleaguered civilians and increase diplomatic efforts to secure peace? two opposition politicians, whom the chadian government says it is not holding, were in fact seized by state security forces on 3 february in chad. after the coup attempt in early february, how is the council ensuring freedom of the political opposition following arrests which were part of a crackdown on political opponents in the capital, n'djamena? president déby declared a state of emergency on 14 february, granting his government exceptional powers to censor the media, search people and property, and tightly regulate all movement in chad. how is the council ensuring that the déby administration is not infringing the human rights of chadian citizens with these newly acquired more expansive powers?
i have no further questions on that point, and the next question will be the last question.
question no 9 by liam aylward (h-0180/08) subject: peacekeeping mission to chad can the council make a comprehensive statement outlining how the eu peacekeeping mission to chad is progressing at this time?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – madam president, the green group certainly supports the general lines taken in this report, especially the call for more consistency between wto rule-setting, the work of un agencies and the existing social, environmental and human rights covenants. we believe that it must include an observer status for the ilo, as well as measures against social and ecological dumping. we also support the role of parliamentary scrutiny in order to mitigate the wto’s lack of accountability and legitimacy, as well as the need to develop the wto dispute settlement on the basis of international environmental and social law, ensuring that it has real sanctioning capacities. i am concerned, though, that the report fails to acknowledge that the failure of the doha round is precisely rooted in the shortcomings of the wto as an organisation. these are not two separate things. the stalling of the doha round is completely linked to the systematic abuses of its decision-making processes by some powerful countries and the resulting alienation of the weaker countries. i think the report also fails to recognise that it required nothing less than a revolution on the part of developing countries in cancún in 2003 and of some of the emerging countries prior to hong kong in order to begin to end the old feudal system on which the wto has been running for far too long. i think it is clear that we should stop waiting until we have an outcome from the doha round and immediately start with the reform of the wto: reform both of its procedures and also of its policies, because reform of process alone is not enough. we need to look at a whole range of rules that are now completely out of date in the 21st century, facing new challenges like climate change. so we need to look at rules like the one on ppms, for example: the prohibition of distinguishing between products on the basis of which they have been produced. such discrimination is crucial if we are able to support and promote things like energy efficiency, for example, and fewer emissions. we also want to see a complete refocusing of the dispute settlement proceedings, and i would commend to my colleagues an amendment that the greens have put down which asks very specifically for a new way of looking at the dispute settlements mechanism, ensuring that it is rooted in the principles of the un charter and that it is separated out of the current wto form.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, from the report it seems that the eu requires all member states to reach a consensus in wto negotiations or to justify the position in writing. so the uk, for example, has to go along with the rest of the eu. we have to toe the line. put simply, it means that, in reforming the wto, britain will be more closely forced to trade with such other countries as the eu allows. but we are world traders. we have been doing it for centuries. we have a great deal of expertise in global trading. for instance, our trade with the usa is more than france and germany put together. but eu countries do not seem to want to take advantage of our experience, so we are already constrained by eu trade agreements, and that is ruining britain’s global trading reputation. we are not allowed to trade sufficiently with our traditional partners in the british commonwealth. that is not exclusive trade. we would not try to stop other european countries from joining us in trading with our commonwealth friends. it would be of benefit to all concerned. eu countries would prosper, and many third world countries would find their living standards rising. the wto was set up to promote trade and friendship, and the eu keeps on saying it wants to help the disadvantaged. well, one way to start is to widen trade links, not cut them off.
madam president, the wto has many flaws but surely its most ludicrous defect is the unfair advantage which it gives to china, india and brazil by affording them the favourable status of developing countries. they once were emerging economies but today they have very definitely emerged and can compete with the best. indeed, so successful are they that they are world leaders in several fields. yet, inexplicably, we give them a free ride as developing countries and in consequence accept lower standards and commitments from them. there is little wonder that my constituents often see the wto as not meeting or serving their interests, a feeling which is accentuated when they watch unmatched concession after concession on agricultural issues by commissioner mandelson. commissioner, getting the right deal is more important than getting a deal. it will not be the right deal if it washes away our agri-food industry under an incoming tide of cheap imports from countries we treat more favourably than their robust economic capacity requires.
madam president, firstly i would like to congratulate ms muscardini on an excellent report. the wto does still have a significant role to play in the world and still plays its role well, but it needs to be modernised and reformed. one of the key reforms, i believe, is to bring parliamentary democracy to the wto. we need a parliamentary assembly that meets regularly and monitors the work that is going on around the negotiating table at the wto. we also need to update the wto rules to ensure that environmental sustainability and climate change are taken into greater account in wto negotiations and that social and labour clauses are also included in wto negotiations. in particular, i would like to see the ilo more closely associated with the wto’s work than it currently is. in terms of the report as a whole, i very much support the work that ms muscardini has done in the committee on international trade.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, my group strongly supports calling on the commission to supply parliament with more information about these fta negotiations and in particular to transmit the actual negotiating mandate and an updated sustainability impact assessment. we also support the emphasis on the need for a strong chapter within the fta on sustainable development, given the poor record of the gulf states with regard to social and environmental standards. that is what makes us concerned about suggestions from the trade dg that since the fta negotiations with the gulf states started a long time ago, when sustainable development issues were apparently less relevant, it is somehow now too late to burden the negotiations with new issues like human rights clauses. i think we need to say that this is politically unacceptable and we hope that the trade dg will keep in mind that parliament will need to give its assent to any final results of the negotiations. but beyond our concern about the social and environmental standards of trade within the gulf region, we need to ask more carefully what kind of trade an fta with the gulf aims to liberalise. we know of course that the eu interest is about unlimited access to energy resources, about doing away with any barriers to trade like export taxes or quantitative restrictions. of course we know the eu is trying to out-compete other industrialised and emerging economies to get the best access conditions, that the eu sees rising energy prices and wants to sell more to the region in order to redress its trade balance. of course, this is completely inconsistent with the eu’s stated goals with regard to its policy on climate change. but let us just imagine a different scenario: that the eu would not seek to balance its trade relations through all-out liberalisation but would use the incentive of trade imbalance to foster the development and application of renewable energy; that the eu would not participate in the international race to secure access to oil but would insist on multilateral agreements giving all countries a fair share of diminishing global resources. in comparison to this kind of ambitious scenario that we would like to see, the insistence of parliament on a strong chapter in the fta on sustainable development is absolutely the minimum we need in terms of deciding whether or not this house can give its assent to the upcoming agreement.
madam president, let me begin with the positive. firstly, let me put on record my thanks to mr o’sullivan, the director-general for trade, who responded quickly and positively to our request for the negotiating mandates. we received them within a week or so of him coming to the committee and being asked to provide us with those mandates. i also welcome the significant progress that is being made in these negotiations and acknowledge, as others already have as well, that this should open up the gulf states to eu trade and should be good for eu business. i also accept wholeheartedly that any fta we negotiate is going to be an improvement on the 1989 cooperation agreement, and as you yourself, commissioner, reminded us and ms doyle has just repeated, i welcome the fact that the fta does contain a number of non-trade clauses on subjects such as human rights, migration, counter-terrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. but i do regret that the social, environmental and labour clauses that we are negotiating with the gulf states are significantly weaker than those that we are negotiating in our modern round of free trade agreements. we would not accept the standards that we appear to be prepared to accept for the gulf states for korea or for the asean negotiations, for example. the commission has already told us – and we could have anticipated this – that this is because we are negotiating on the basis of an old negotiating mandate, a mandate that has not been updated since 2001. what i have not heard from anyone on the commission, be it the commissioner responsible, be it the dg for trade or the commissioner here this evening, is why we are still negotiating on the basis of an old mandate. it is difficult not to be suspicious that the commission felt it was going to be too difficult to negotiate modern sustainability, development clauses and labour clauses with the gulf states. similarly, why has the sustainability impact assessment not been updated since 2004? again, i have yet to hear convincing reasons for this. i must say that i am particularly concerned – mr carnero has mentioned the situation of women, and that is a concern that i share – but i am particularly concerned about the rights of migrant workers in the gulf states. of course, these people make up the majority of the workforce in the gulf states, and i do not see how in any sense they are protected by this free trade agreement. what will the commission do to ensure that ilo core standards are respected by the gulf states in respect of migrant workers? finally, commissioner, your colleague ms ferrero-waldner met the bahrain human rights society last week and raised with her a number of concerns over human rights and migrant workers. she is quoted in the gulf daily news as giving her full support to human rights clauses in any free trade agreement. how will the commission plan to implement that promise?
deputising for the author. − madam president, i should first of all thank my colleague mr parish, chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, very much indeed for giving me the opportunity of coming here at this late hour to ask this oral question. he, unfortunately, has for many months had a longstanding arrangement to go to denmark with commissioner fischer boel and had to leave for copenhagen this afternoon. so he sends his apologies for his absence and also sends his greatest respects to ms vassiliou and welcomes her to the commission. this is a reality check. we have a very competitive and successful poultry and pig industry in the eu. they are completely unsupported. they do not receive a single farm payment; they do not receive any subsidy at all and they have to stand alone in the marketplace. with poultry and pigs the biggest cost of production is the feed. pigs and chickens do not graze the fields and therefore everything they eat is cereal-based. if you have an unsupported industry you must make sure that they have access to competitive feed from around the world. in europe we take over two years on average to license a perfectly safe gm product. herculex, one of the few approved gm seeds, took 33 months to achieve eu approval. in the us the average approval time is half that: 15 months. there is no excuse for this. with food prices and costs for the poultry and pig industry both rising, we cannot afford this time delay in licensing feed. we have got to speed things up. in the us many of these gm products are by-products from the bioethanol industry and they are significantly cheaper than feeds that can be accessed here in the eu by our poultry and pig producers. so all we are doing is denying ourselves access to cheaper world market feeds, making it virtually impossible for our producers to compete and therefore we are in grave danger of haemorrhaging jobs and exporting our industry outside the eu. those purists who say that we must not have poultry or pigmeat produced with gm feed will not have won any kind of victory if we deny ourselves these feeds. the end result will be that we will have lost our industry to our non-eu competitors while we continue to import poultry and pigmeat from animals that have been fed on precisely the same gm feed that we have denied our producers access to. this is the politics of the madhouse. we also need clear labelling and products so that consumers can make an informed choice. they must know if the meat they eat has been fed on gms. with rising food prices, much gm-fed meat is cheaper and this gives consumers the choice and access to low-cost meat if that is what they desire. the other major issue so far as feed is concerned is zero tolerance on non-gm feed coming into the eu. again, the great hair-shirted brigade can beat their chests and say that we are making sure that there are no traces of gm products in any non-gm feed that is entering the eu. but what is the effect of zero tolerance when a shipload of non-gm soya is being loaded in brazil to be brought to the eu? there is a chance that a very tiny residue of gm soya could be picked up through the loading equipment at the port in brazil. when that ship docks in the eu, if even a small trace of gm soya is found, even if that soya has been licensed in the eu, the whole cargo can be turned away. therefore the result of the zero-tolerance regime is to reduce dramatically the amount of non-gm feed coming into the eu. so, even those poultry and pig producers who want to use non-gm feed find it incredibly difficult to access the quantities that they need, when they need them. once again, this makes it much more difficult for them to compete fairly in open world markets. if we really want to export our poultry and pig industry outside the eu and feed our citizens on brazilian chicken and pork and even chicken from thailand, all of which has been fed on gm, then the present policies of zero tolerance on non-gm feed and the appallingly slow licensing of gm feed within the eu are exactly the way to go about it. commissioner, we are delighted that you were so resoundingly endorsed as a commissioner for health and consumer protection dg. we wish you well but we hope that you will be the first to resist the tabloid frankenstein food mythology and put in place some policies that will allow our farmers to compete internationally on a level playing field.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – madam president, i would like to start by strongly challenging the assumption that seems to lie behind this oral question. trying to link the rise in animal feed prices in europe and the corresponding crisis in the livestock industry to the eu’s gm laws in general, and its zero-tolerance policy in particular, is completely false and disingenuous. it is certainly true that times are hard for livestock farmers, but i make the case that this has nothing to do with europe’s gm policies and everything to do with a combination of factors, including poor weather conditions leading to reduced harvests, deregulation of markets, increased demand by countries like china, the rapid and misguided increase in biofuel production and growing financial speculation. much is also being made by the gm industry of dg agriculture’s report on the potential impact of the eu’s gm regime on the availability and price of animal feed. the worst-case scenario in the report rests on the assumption that brazil will rapidly commercialise a gm soya bean variety not approved in the eu. but absolutely no evidence is presented that brazil is even considering new gm soya beans. the report finds that us approvals will be unaffected by eu policy and that brazil and argentina will, in fact, be much more cautious about approving new gm crops that could otherwise damage their exports to the eu. for example, argentina has introduced a certification scheme for maize exports to the eu, precisely to avoid unapproved traits. moreover, there is no evidence either of major distortion of competition caused by imports of meat from animals that may have been fed with gmos not authorised in the eu. so, frankly, all of these questions are ill-informed and tendentious. but i do have some questions of my own with regard to any proposed threshold for eu non-approved gmos. first, how can the commission be sure that eu non-approved gmos are safe? second, in the case of damage, which institution or company will have to pay? the eu, which allows such contamination? the company, which has developed the gmo but has so far no valid market approval? or the company responsible for the import? finally, should such a threshold also apply to genetically engineered plants that produce substances like pharmaceuticals? what assessment has been carried out on the contamination of daily food with active pharmaceutical substances? i look forward to hearing full answers to these crucial questions at the end of this debate.
madam president, what a laughing stock the eu must be to its competitors! with sanctimonious fervour we ban gmos in animal feedstuffs, even to the ridiculous point of zero tolerance of any unauthorised gm trace, but simultaneously meat derived from animals reared outside the eu and fed with the very gmos which we refuse to authorise can be imported freely anywhere within the 27 states. it sounds like zero sense to me. the eu strains at a gnat and swallows a camel, and who suffers? our own producers, who have to pay sky-high prices for gm-free feedstuffs. it seems that, within the eu, if the political correctness boxes can be ticked then we should be happy, never mind the lunacy which we create.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament and, in particular, its rapporteurs for its very constructive reaction to the commission’s green paper on market-based instruments. last year, this green paper was presented together with commissioner dimas with the purpose of launching a broad public debate on advancing the use of market-based instruments for environment and energy-related policy purposes in the community. the green paper starts from the broadly shared view that not only market-based instruments, such as taxes, charges and tradable permit schemes, but also targeted subsidies, provide a flexible and cost-efficient means of reaching given policy objectives. i am pleased that parliament supports this approach. equally, i am pleased to see that parliament shares the view that market-based instruments cannot be seen and used in isolation and should be combined with regulatory instruments. parliament’s report is a very useful and very comprehensive contribution to the discussion about the use of market-based instruments, both at community and national level. its scope is even broader, covering issues such as the greening of gross domestic product and the review of the eu emissions trading scheme. while these issues are obviously linked to the subject of the green paper and highly important in their own right, they were left out of the green paper, as they were covered in other commission documents elaborated in parallel. the commission will take account of the numerous comments and requests made by parliament in the context of its work on the various issues mentioned in the green paper and on further specific initiatives. as far as imminent actions foreseen for this year are concerned, i can inform you that the commission is planning to revise the energy taxation directive in the autumn with the objective of ensuring that it contributes more effectively to meeting the eu energy and climate change targets. most importantly, and in line with the request of parliament, one of the main aspects will be to achieve better complementarity with the eu emissions trading scheme. in my view, it is very important to provide for the best possible synergies between the revised eu emissions trading scheme and energy taxation in such a way as to ensure that the eu meets its climate change and energy goals in the least costly way. our aim is to present the proposal in time for parliament to render an opinion before the end of its current mandate. there are areas where effective action can only be taken by legislation at eu level. this concerns, for example, the taxation of energy use – which i have just spoken about – and the eu emissions trading scheme for greenhouse gas emissions. there are, however, other areas where member states can take effective action themselves and where they can cooperate and benefit from experiences gained in other member states. to this end, the green paper suggests the creation of a forum on market-based instruments, which would allow knowledge to be shared across sectoral boundaries and member states. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament for its constructive contribution to the debate about the further use of market-based instruments, which is of use to all policymakers, whether here in strasbourg, in brussels or in the national capitals.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, ms ferreira has produced an excellent and balanced response to the commission’s green paper on market-based instruments for environmental purposes, and as draftsman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs’ opinion under the enhanced cooperation procedure, i am very pleased that we have been able to collaborate with ms ferreira and contribute significantly to this report. in our view, the emissions trading scheme (ets) is the most cost-efficient, demand-sensitive and objective market-based instrument available for actually reaching the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of 20% by the year 2020. the ets should be the cornerstone of the market-based instruments mix, and i welcome the commission’s proposals to improve and expand it. the scheme should have a progressively tightening cap designed to reach that 20% objective in 2020. it should also be spread as widely as possible among significant emitters. auctioning should be the main means of allocating emissions targets, in order to avoid the disadvantages for competition of grandfathering. auctioning is more economically efficient. it encourages new entrants, innovation and technological and operational improvements. madam commissioner, i particularly stress that we feel that energy taxation, indeed taxes and subsidies in general, should remain only a very secondary and complementary greenhouse gas reduction tool for these emissions that cannot be covered directly or indirectly by the emissions trading scheme. for this reason, we find paragraph 26 of the report inconsistent with the overall message of giving priority to the emissions trading scheme. finally, the commission must urgently negotiate reciprocal agreements with other jurisdictions. mutual and equivalent international commitments covering sectors that are vulnerable to competition would be greatly preferable to the adoption of border tax adjustments to offset trade distortions.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, whilst a great deal is said about climate change but little is happening in terms of concrete measures, i think the eu needs to set a global example. therefore, greater use of market-based instruments is crucial, as they are cost-effective means to reduce carbon emissions and increase energy efficiency. these indirect taxes, tradable permits and subsidies, i think, will assist the european union to achieve its emissions targets. however, while recognising that member states need to retain flexibility over their own tax systems, any tool or aid that can support our industries and consumers to make greener choices is to be welcomed, and our policies must be such that they incentivise behavioural change. therefore, it is imperative that market failures are corrected and that we have carbon-based pricing to reflect environmental damage as part of the ‘polluter pays’ principle. reduced vat on environmentally friendly products can assist the vulnerable in society, especially the elderly, who are now more than ever at risk of energy poverty. furthermore, any revenues raised through auctioning should be reinvested to tackle energy poverty and fund further environmental programmes.
mr president, i welcome ms ferreira’s excellent work and cooperation, thanks to which we have before us a report that gives a comprehensive and honest appraisal of the potential and limitations of market-based instruments. market instruments clearly have a role to play. making economic logic align with environmental and social reality by applying the ‘polluter pays’ principle should be a powerful way of steering patterns of production and consumption towards sustainability. for example, if the true environmental and social costs of freight transport were internalised within prices paid along the supply chain, we might finally see an end to the madness that sees more or less identical products being pointlessly traded back and forth between distant countries. applying such principles at the level of individuals via a system of personal carbon trading could be an extremely effective way of influencing consumer behaviour. but, as ms ferreira’s report rightly makes clear, market instruments must not be seen as a replacement for other forms of environmental standards and regulation. their usefulness also depends crucially on the way in which they are designed. the emissions trading system is a case in point. i would like to warn colleagues that, if we listen to a lot of what the industry is telling us, we will end up with a scheme that is no more than trading backwards and forwards for the sake of trading, as we have seen with the first two phases, completely losing sight of any environmental objectives. to be effective, the scheme has to have a tough cap deriving from the 30% emissions reduction target, restrictions on the entry of outside credits and full auctioning of allowances from the outset. finally, i would like to mention one other welcome thread running through the report – the recognition that traditional economic growth as measured by gdp is no longer an adequate or accurate measure of true well-being. a conference was held on this topic in parliament earlier this year and i look forward to the commission’s report in the autumn.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, ifrss are being adapted by more and more countries, so their value and importance is growing. this brings with it a need to strengthen accountability and transparency of the iasb, which may not have been so obvious at its inception. i welcome moves in that direction, but i regret that some parts of this report present criticism in a negative way, rather than acknowledging changes that are under way and pointing the way forward. so several of my amendments aim to be more forward-looking, highlighting the advantages and benefits, alongside the need for further adaptation, both to the standards themselves and the iasb that oversees them. however, unnecessary politicisation of technical issues must be avoided. ifrss are an important tool for advancing comparability across borders and reducing burdensome requirements for companies reporting under different regimes, but it would be useful if presentation of financial statements lent itself more easily to other comparison purposes. however, it may well be the case that tools such as xbrl tagging can develop that. i have to thank ms van den burg for organising an interesting presentation on that subject last week. the sme proposals cause concern in several quarters. to me they look more like a tool for medium entities, perhaps on their way to full public reporting, so they may merit their own separate consideration in that light or on a voluntary basis. but – as you have said, commissioner – as yet they are far too complex for the majority of ordinary smes.
madam president, there are issues with the transparency and governance of the international accounting standards board (iasb), but it has accepted this criticism and acknowledged the need to change. steps have been taken and more are planned: publication of feedback statements, explaining the reasoning behind its decisions, pushing cost-benefit analyses and enlargement and more active involvement of the board of trustees. it bent over backwards to communicate with parliament. mr radwan’s report is much improved from earlier versions and i believe the positive amendments from the ppe-de and alde groups will further improve the text today. i would like to thank the rapporteur because, although we have had our differences, he was willing to compromise in certain areas on this governance aspect. unfortunately, i am unable to agree with him on the issue of international financial reporting standards for smes. the iasb was asked to draw up a simplified version for smes. mr radwan’s report declines to acknowledge that this could also be useful in the european union. in fact, with the proposal still only at the drafting stage, the report proclaims that it will definitely not benefit eu companies. yet we have been told repeatedly that it will be optional and is designed for those growing smes which aim to become public listed companies. small enterprises with no aspirations beyond their local markets need not take it up. an opinion survey last september found that a clear majority of european smes, including german smes, considered the benefits outweighed any disadvantages and would improve financial reporting. the efforts of the iasb to develop global accounting standards of a high quality are a major and welcome contribution to the european and world economies and, frankly, i think we should be applauding them.
madam president, paragraph 30 of our motion for a resolution points out that financial statements do not simply serve the needs of investors but also other stakeholders. as we also draw attention to the need for eu law changes in paragraph 41, i rise to remind the commissioner that this parliament has voted that any changes to the fourth and seventh company law directives should include a requirement for social and environmental reporting by companies. i draw to his attention such requirements in south africa, in france’s law on new economic regulations, as well as the recommendations of the prince of wales’s accounting for sustainability project from my own country, the uk. in the mean time, and in addition, i would like to ask the commissioner, following the 2001 commission recommendation on environmental issues in our new accounts, whether the commission could issue a similar recommendation on social issues in accounts. i would also like to ask the commissioner to press the international accounting standards board to include social and environmental aspects in its planned publication of a management commentary. the commission may or may not want to call this corporate social responsibility, but perhaps today we can all agree to call it accounting for responsible companies.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
we will send a technician so that you will be able to participate in the vote. i should just like to point out before we start the vote that i shall not be reading out the numerical results of the roll-call votes: i shall just tell you whether they are adopted or rejected.
thank you for that. i was going to say that the request was obviously received after the deadline and my next question was to be to ask the house whether it was willing to accept that separate vote. it is now clear, however, so that will not happen.
madam president, this is quite a simple amendment. it is to delete the word ‘legitimacy’ in the phrase ‘may lack transparency, legitimacy and accountability’ and corresponds with a similar deletion by the rapporteur in amendment 1.
madam president, i abstained on this particular issue because i think the commission has got too much to do and it does not really need to reassess where it is going politically or policy-wise. it should be talking much more about deregulation, not about how we can go forward with a common immigration policy. many small businesses in the region that i represent would like to see less regulation coming from this place. actually many people would like to see the regulation that comes from this place better implemented across the whole of the european union. finally, there are many in my region who express concern that the commission does not do what it is meant to do. for example, the commission might at this present point in time be shelving infringement cases against various member states, when it comes to gambling, to hide this away from the general public for a couple of years. that is something the commission should be getting on with now.
madam president, we all agree on the need for reform for the wto. but the best reform for the world trade organisation would be in the attitudes of the negotiating parties, including that of the european union. i call on my colleagues to support the cross-party global campaign calling for real trade of which i am a co-chairman with abdi abdirahim haithar of the east african legislative assembly. we call for five things. let us abolish agricultural subsidies; let us abolish agricultural tariffs; let us liberalise rules of origin; let us place more emphasis on aid for trade, for things like infrastructure rather than direct budgetary support for corrupt governments. and, let us incentivise low-income countries to remove barriers between each other so that they can create wealth – entrepreneurs can create wealth – and so that they can take part in the global trading system.
i am sorry, but you are speaking too fast for the interpreters.
in writing. − british conservatives support the emphasis in this resolution on better regulation, on reducing administrative burdens, on renewed emphasis on achieving the lisbon strategy on growth and jobs and on further progress towards underpinning the single market. we also supported references to independent impact assessments in relation to legislation, a long-held policy of conservative meps. we cannot, however, support inter alia the references to a common immigration policy or a common asylum policy, any moves to reduce the freedom of the member states to act in the area of justice and home affairs, the creation of a ‘european external action service’ or any moves towards a defence capability for the eu. for these reasons, we abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − i welcome the content of ms haug’s report on the 2009 budget, section iii – commission: budgetary framework and priorities for 2009. the report provides guidelines which will help facilitate the transition from the current to the new procedure resulting from the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − although i will vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, i have to say it is a typical european parliament resolution brought about not for a concern for the environment or maritime safety but because conservative spanish politicians are still desperately trying to reclaim gibraltar and embarrass their own government. it is a text that tries to be all things to all people and rambles on at length about trivia, but only gives a small amount of wording to the important issue of maritime safety. in english it appears badly written and paragraph 12 makes no sense and is a practical impossibility, which is why this paragraph cannot be taken seriously even if you understand it. what is important is that the oil has been removed from the ship, that emsa and the gibraltar and spanish authorities acted swiftly and correctly when the disaster struck and that we need to ensure that the whole issue of maritime safety is addressed. all of this could have been stated on two pages far more effectively than the four pages of rambling text we are now faced with. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1)) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. − cooperation in this area requires a dialogue that promotes, among others, social cohesion and cooperation in fighting global warming. the need for a more in-depth dialogue in these areas is reflected in my vote.
in writing. − i welcome this opportunity that is given to us by the eu-latin america summit to have a discussion on the situation in latin america and, indeed, the relationship that the eu has with this part of the world. i will be supporting the joint motion for a resolution, but would stress that we need to ensure that a political solution is found to the problems in and around colombia, in line with the position of the united nations. we know that difficulties exist for countries of that region, and we in the european union must be active in helping them to overcome their problems, in particular in regard to drugs and crime, and in cementing democratic principles in their governments and institutions.
in writing. − british conservatives have voted in favour of this resolution today but wish to make clear that the reference they have reservations about – universal support for the rome statute and the icc and the reference to ‘the fight against the death penalty’ in paragraph 11 of the resolution – deals with an issue which is a matter of conscience for each individual conservative mep.
in writing. − the situation in burma demands a unified and clear position from the eu. broader and more targeted sanctions form an important part of such a position and a worldwide arms embargo and the release of political prisoners including aung san suu kyi is to be welcomed. nevertheless, the eu should not be putting pressure solely on burma but on asean countries to take steps to exclude burma from the favourable trade rules asean offers.
in writing. − i welcome ms muscardini’s report ‘towards a reformed wto’. areas such as the system of representation, the organisation’s dispute settlement mechanism and its general legitimacy and transparency all require attention. indeed, the analysis provided in the report goes a long way in contributing to the debate on these issues. furthermore, increased participation of and consultation with civil society, developing countries and un organisations on this debate is also required. these views were reflected in my vote.
in writing. − mr markov’s oral question to the commission on the eu-gulf cooperation council free trade agreement (fta) is to be supported. an fta between the eu and the gulf cooperation council should contain provisions on labour and environmental norms and human rights. without such provisions, the social fibre of ftas is jeopardised. calls for a renewal of the mandate need to be acknowledged if the eu hopes to remain credible in defending a socially responsible economic policy throughout the world. i voted in line with my expressed views on this issue.
in writing. − the ppe-de welcomes the report on the green paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes. we believe it contains many good and constructive elements that serve to emphasise the importance of mbis in developing and implementing environmental policy. for this we reason we have voted in favour of the report. however, the ppe-de would like to draw attention to the fact that it voted against the second part of paragraph 26, which calls on the commission to put forward a legislative proposal for a community minimum tax on co2 before the end of 2008. we feel strongly that this goes against the principle of subsidiarity; it is up to the member states to determine taxation policy. the ppe-de would also emphasise that the concept is incompatible with the continued development of an efficient eu emissions trading system. the ppe-de would further stress that while a separate vote was not requested on paragraph 42 of the report our opposition based on these same principles extends to the notion of an eu-wide kerosene tax and nox emission charges.
in writing. − labour meps support market-based instruments to tackle climate change such as the eu ets system. we welcome much of the green paper and the report. however, there are a number of areas where we have reservations. these include inter alia: - para 47: eurovignette: we understand the commission will come forward with a legislative proposal on the eurovignette in the future and we will reserve our position until then. - para 50: energy tax directive: some derogations on fossil fuel taxes for domestic consumers have social policy objectives which must be respected.
in writing. − public oversight of bodies such as the iascf/iasb is a controversial issue. work towards convergence as agreed in the ifrs can bring increasing benefits for companies working on an international basis. many millions of euros can be saved by avoiding double accounting. however, the nature of such agreements being implemented by way of an untransparent and removed process calls into question public scrutiny of this procedure. smes also need proper attention, and less is known as to their treatment than for large companies. furthermore, the principle of fair value is one which does not need to be eroded by alternatives and interpretations beyond that which it is reasonable to accept.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
author. − mr president, can i first of all express my disappointment that the council is not represented for this important debate. it is almost a month since elections were held in zimbabwe. there can be little doubt that those elections were won by the movement for democratic change. mugabe and his henchmen should now be out of office, but we have heard virtually nothing about the election results except that mugabe’s people are once more reacting with violence and are desperately trying to fix the election outcome. for years now, we have pointed to zimbabwe as the great shame on the face of africa, a testimony to the effects of tyranny, corruption and exploitation by one man’s appalling regime. mugabe has destroyed a once prosperous country. yet, during this time, over all those years, other african leaders have stood by and either done nothing or else they have applauded the tyrant whenever they had the opportunity. what a disgrace! and what a scandal this has been. and what a tragedy – not just for the people of zimbabwe, but for africa. for all those years, the first key to zimbabwe’s fate has been held by south africa, yet thabo mbeki has not only failed properly to discharge his responsibilities as a mediator but he has blatantly sided with mugabe. the world watched dumbstruck when mbeki announced a few days ago that there was no crisis in zimbabwe, just normal electoral politics. while the eu has at least imposed targeted sanctions on the mugabe regime, it went out of its way to ensure that no one took them seriously, even inviting mugabe, banned from travel to eu countries, to its eu-africa summit in lisbon last december for reasons that were wholly false. what diplomatic or economic effort has really been made to persuade other african countries to do the decent thing over zimbabwe? the answer is very little. well, there is still time to do the right thing. jacob zuma, the anc leader, has now called for action on zimbabwe. in our motion for a resolution today we are calling on men of goodwill in the governing zanu-pf in zimbabwe to see the light and recognise that a transformation is on the way. now is the time for us to make our voice heard. let us bring about that democratic change that at last is required for the sake of the people of zimbabwe.
mr president, a few short years ago i was with a delegation in chad, in the aftermath of their civil war and the violence, looking at the optimism that was coming from the arrival of oil and the pipeline. the wealth of that country was hitherto the mango trees of a village, nothing more, and oil was bringing opportunity to this country. the international community was supervising that in such a way that we had hope that this would bring stability and wealth and a future to this country. now we have a mess, and we have a mess partly because of what has come in from outside – darfur and so on – and, i have to say, partly from what has come from inside – the corruption, the poor governance and the violence. as a result, it is the people of chad who are suffering, and we must urge everyone – internationally, nationally and locally – to work together to bring this crisis to an end, and then build for the future again.
madam president, the basic economic problems of the euro cannot be reconciled. in the long term, it is not possible to have one common interest rate for a multitude of differently performing national economies. it is not possible to have one common external exchange rate for a multitude of differently performing economies. it is possible in the short term and even the midterm, but eventually these irreconcilable economic contradictions will pull the european single currency apart. this does not even take into account the undemocratic and unaccountable decision-making processes of the european central bank. there is an economic crisis looming and, when one eventually comes that is big enough, it will destroy the european single currency.
madam president, russia has a new president today, but vladimir putin’s new job as prime minister will enable him to maintain his grip on power and supervise his protégé dmitry medvedev. as result, russian foreign policy will not change. a flood of petrodollars is making russia a resurgent power but, regrettably, it sees everything in zero-sum terms. putin’s foreign policy priority – to reconstruct something looking like the old soviet union – has been focused on what russia patronisingly refers to as its ‘near abroad’ – the former soviet republics in the baltics, eastern europe and the south caucasus, where russia is determined to retain its sphere of influence. they are being punished for looking westwards towards nato and the eu, rather than towards moscow. georgia, under the western-oriented reformist president saakashvili, has suffered considerably from russia’s heavy-handedness. aside from using trade and energy supplies as diplomatic weapons, putin has consistently sought to undermine georgia’s territorial integrity through tacit support for the breakaway, self-styled republics of abkhazia and south ossetia. the arrival of yet more russian soldiers in abkhazia – supposedly as peacekeepers but undoubtedly combat ready – and the shooting down of a georgian drone recently has provocatively increased tension in the region. however, given the west’s rush to embrace an independent kosovo without any un resolution or international agreement, russia’s actions – regrettably – have a certain logic. recognition of kosovo has opened a can of worms and given russia the moral high ground. we should not be surprised that russia sees this as a precedent. it would indeed be tragic if, through our approach to kosovo, we have irreparably damaged georgia and precipitated armed conflict in a country whose territorial integrity we should be defending very strongly.
madam president, commissioner ferrero-waldner opened her remarks a few minutes ago by stating how serious this situation is, a view also expressed by mr lenarčič on behalf of the council. all the speakers since have emphasised the severity of the current situation. i know from my visits to georgia that the country is making real efforts to strengthen its ties with the european union. i think, colleagues, that we should now support georgia at this time of crisis and in the face of what a colleague a few moments ago described as russian imperialism. russia has never accepted the territorial integrity of georgia with respect to abkhazia or south ossetia. we know from what we have heard in recent weeks that russian and abkhazian separatists have apparently been involved in the spy plane incidents which have led to this rise in tension and we must all recognise that one thing has led on to another. i do not know all the diplomatic measures that are taking place, but i am concerned that the european union is not doing enough to stop this escalating violence. mrs isler béguin said a few minutes ago that history will not pardon us if we do nothing. do nothing and the whole area could dissolve into a war – a war which no one will win. so my message this afternoon – not just to this parliament, but to mr lenarčič for the council and, indeed, to commissioner ferrero-waldner – is to do everything within your means, at the highest level, to ensure that everyone, above all the russians, understands how dangerous the moves are that are taking place in this area and that we have got to stop this escalation before we have another balkan crisis.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to begin by thanking vice-president verheugen. he has spoken of the need for political leadership, for hard work and for patience. he has demonstrated all of those qualities, and i must say we would not be at the stage we are at today were it not for the hard work and personal commitment that he has shown to this project. the joint motion for a resolution that will be before the house is one that, i think, reflects representations that have been received on this occasion from all of the parliamentary committees. i want to congratulate them firstly for their engagement, and secondly also for their focus, because this is a document limited to 47 paragraphs, believe it or not, coming from all of the committees of parliament. this is a positive process. it is one that must continue, in my view, for the future. i want to thank the business dialogue and the consumer dialogue for engaging with legislators. i also draw attention to the remark made by vice-president verheugen about the engagement of congress. in fact i met with our congressional colleagues last week in washington and, amazingly – i think a first here – i have been asked to present their viewpoint at the meeting that is to be held on 13 may. i think that that is a very different relationship to the one that we had as a parliament with the congress going back three or four years ago. why are these things important? because what we are aiming to do is to take forward regulatory cooperation, proper risk assessment – including on the safety of imported products – bridging differences on technical standards, resisting protectionism, removing barriers to transatlantic trade and promoting capital markets liberalisation. but i also think that we can mark out for ourselves a role as a global standard-setter against the challenges of globalisation. we can show that, on a transatlantic basis, we can ensure that standards are not reduced in the challenges that we face with china and india. will you please allow me just at the end to say a word about one other person who has contributed to this process? the chairman of the foreign relations committee of congress, chairman tom lantos, who sadly died a few weeks ago. i just want to say that he was the only holocaust survivor to serve in the us congress, a man whose life was saved by raoul wallenberg. i think that his commitment to this process is something i want to read into the record of our parliament and to thank him on all of our behalf. (applause)
madam president, in 2000 there was an agreement on safe harbour arrangements for business data transferred to the us. but we have never got beyond that to draw up common transatlantic standards. what is happening increasingly is the transfer of commercial data, notably passenger data but also banking and telecom data, to public authorities for security purposes. this is not the context to raise the civil liberties concerns, but there is an important economic dimension. obviously, if business travellers experience undue delays, that is a cost. but even more burdensome is the considerable cost imposed on companies. in the united states my understanding is that there is provision for cost reimbursement, but in the eu there is no consistent policy. for instance, in the data retention directive, we left it to member states to decide if they would compensate telecoms companies. it would be interesting to do a check how many actually do. but the result is that the european union is hardly in a strong position to push for a common transatlantic framework not only for privacy standards, which is vitally important, but also for dealing with the economic impact of data collection when companies are used as agents for public authorities.
madam president, it is a great tribute to the work of günther verheugen, jonathan evans and others that we are meeting here today to follow up this really important initiative. i particularly want to pay tribute to mr evans for his political leadership because i think that political and parliamentary component has been absolutely crucial. i had the privilege of going to washington for the first time with the delegation of the internal market committee last year when we were able to go to congress and to emphasise the fact that engagement with these issues was widely spread across parliament. also, i want to record that we were privileged recently in the internal market committee to have a visit from nancy nord, acting chairman of the consumer products safety committee. that resulted directly from our visit to washington and it shows, i think, that we are now grasping the political dimension. now, why do we need to grasp that political dimension? the answer is because the work on technical product-safety issues and harmonisation issues in particular does have to have a political dimension. the problem lies at a bureaucratic level. if we take motorcars that mr von wogau talked about earlier on, the problem there is actually that the experts in the european union and the experts in the united states – not the politicians – are still failing to agree on fundamental issues like emission standards for heavy trucks or how we test cars for safety. those are not political issues. they are issues that bureaucrats are failing to agree on. i think we need to get to grips with that because it is actually costing all of us large amounts of unnecessary money that we should be spending and investing on making safer and greener products for consumers. that is what it is all about in the end. i know i can count on you, commissioner, with your political leadership to deal with that, but i think we all need to be engaged in that process, not to make those detailed decisions but to say to the people involved: get together and step up those efforts, because we all want you to succeed.
madam president, many have spoken about very serious issues. of course it is quite important that we realise that there is always an ongoing dialogue between the united states and the european union, but tec really is about deliverables. it is about punching through the rhetoric and removing some of the scurrilous excuses on both sides of the atlantic for those things that we need to do in order to be able to lift our economies and reward the people in those economies with growth, especially at the present time with the financial crisis around us. that is why i am so pleased to see that progress really has been made. i welcome the fact that many like jonathan evans and commissioner verheugen and colleagues around this chamber worked very hard on this issue to try to move things along. international financial reporting standards have been mentioned, as have broker-dealer agreements. these are all good steps forward and very solid issues, but this cannot be a shopping list. tec has seven priorities which should move forward and make sure that they cut through the rhetoric. insurance is one of those and it is one which could be a deliverable – maybe not today but definitely tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i take the floor in various capacities, not just as a coordinator for the largest political group here in parliament, but also as someone who played a leading role in discussing this dossier during the previous mandate and, above all, as somebody who, in a previous business career, actually introduced works councils into several different businesses: somebody who fundamentally believes in developing information and consultation and who does know something about what works and what does not work – certainly a true champion of the philosophy. commissioner, it is surely a supreme irony that such an issue – which is all about social dialogue and two sides of industry getting together – should actually fall at the first fence because the etuc refuses to sit down and discuss it. i do commend you for having tried, and for still trying, to kick-start the dialogue. but if you say that if there is no dialogue then you will introduce legislation anyway, where is the incentive for both sides to sit down? where is the penalty on one side for not having been prepared to sit down? i suggest to you – and i say this with a heavy heart – that the solution surely for you, commissioner, is, when you are ‘reviewing your options’, for any proposal from you to reflect the fact that one party was prepared to talk and one party was not. finally, in a world of increasing globalisation and the need, of course, to restructure companies in order to keep pace, the issues of information and consultation of workers are of critical importance. yet what do we see? a failure of social dialogue, a failure of the social partnership, and a failure by the very people who should be giving a lead. by refusing to negotiate, the european trade unions have not just failed themselves; they have failed the workers they claim to represent. when the issue finally does come before the parliament, we as meps must make sure that we do not fail.
mr president, election observation missions are a central and vital element of eu support for human rights, democratisation and good governance. i would like to speak with particular reference to observation missions in africa because there is a special partnership between the eu and african, caribbean and pacific countries. often the observation mission takes place within a framework of development support under the cotonou agreement. for the elections in the democratic republic of congo in 2006, for instance, there was substantial technical support for the election registration process, and election observation missions should also come in a framework of support after the election, as mrs de keyser’s report emphasises. there is a huge need for practical, technical help after elections – for example, for training of civil servants and for peer-to-peer exchanges with other parliamentarians. newly elected parliaments need support so that they can strengthen their own capacity to hold their executives to account. there also needs to be a political follow-up to the elections, most obviously on the recommendations of the observation mission, which should be followed up before the next round of elections. i have a few other points. yes, the election observation mission has a very special place in that it is independent and ring-fenced from the rest of the process. it is not the commission; it is different from external relations; and, while it is true that the observation mission should talk to the local commission delegation, to the ambassadors of the member states and also to other observation missions, it is not answerable to any of them and its independence is its strength. while i agree with liaison and coordination, i do not think we should have joint missions with other bodies because that is liable to compromise the very important independence of the eu observation mission. i notice the wish to expand observation missions and make them more active in the southern mediterranean. i can understand that, but it should not be at the expense of missions in emerging democracies in asia, latin america and especially africa. as various people have said, missions do not come cheap, so, if we are going to have extra missions, we are going to need extra budget.
mr president, i must ask, is this debate just an annual ritual to preen our human rights conscience, or are we serious in the eu about forcing real change by countries who are serial abusers? yes, the eu protests, but is our action measured in inverse proportion to the trading importance of those we target? take india and china. both countries we are wooing for trade. just how serious are we in pushing the human rights agenda with them? why do our trade agreements not have real human rights teeth? is the truth that trade matters more to the eu than repression? i look at india, with its caste-based discrimination, its appalling record on bonded labour and sex trafficking, and widespread religious freedom abuses. and then i discover that all we have is an ad hoc dialogue with india and the absence of meaningful engagement on human rights issues. little wonder things are not improving. i must also say that sometimes our focus is skewed. when it comes to development aid, the eu presses hard on a rights agenda, including promotion of abortion, even where it offends the local culture – as in kenya, where eu-funded ngos use the money for funding abortions in breach of local custom and law. should our focus not be on fundamental rights and our development money better used to help in food and water provision, rather than in peddling our own agenda, even under the guise of a health policy?
mr president, congratulations to an excellent rapporteur, marco cappato, on the annual human rights report. to explain two of our socialist amendments: firstly, i do respect his and your position about gandhi and non-violence and i think it is a very important tradition that you draw our attention to in parliament. but we seek to delete that paragraph simply because it cannot be the only guiding principle of europe’s cfsp. peace-making and peace-keeping sometimes involve military means and are still an honourable and noble part of what we can and must do as europe to create a more peaceful and successful world. secondly, with regard to our amendment about the un human rights council, as someone who with subcommittee colleagues regularly goes to geneva, i share your concerns. it has been disappointing to see the polarisation that still exists about the occupied palestinian territories, the bloc mentality, particularly in the african group, though we have to beware of that ourselves in europe, too. nevertheless, i think it is very important this year that we continue to support the spirit of un reform, that we recognise the positive role played by eu member states in the human rights council and recognise too that the process of peer review is only just beginning and that to do it openly, comprehensively and effectively is the best way we can support that institution. finally, in recital p and paragraph 4 we ask the commission, together with the council, to endorse the proposal of a consensus on democracy promotion in the neighbourhood policy, in the copenhagen criteria, in our regional strategies in the world. we talk about democracy promotion but there is no single european definition of it. the idea, in the same way as we had a consensus on development, that we get the commission, the member states and parliament to jointly define and commit ourselves to democracy promotion in the world is a powerful one. mr solana has supported it and i hope both council and particularly the commission go on record as supporting the idea this evening.
mr president, i say firstly – and directly to the commission and the council – that the eu needs to give serious support to the prosecutor of the international criminal court to implement the indictment of two individuals who have allegedly perpetrated human rights abuses in darfur, one of them a serving minister in the sudanese government. the eu response has so far been weak, which, considering that we claim the credit – or much of the credit – for creating the icc, is pretty shameful. we even risk being outflanked by the united states. in an interesting speech a fortnight ago, john bellinger, the chief lawyer in the state department, said that the us was willing, without changing its ideological position towards the icc, to give practical support to its work, and he specifically mentioned darfur. so i think we should get our skates on in terms of supporting the icc over darfur. talking of the united states, we have a prospect, whoever wins the presidential election, of an end to the abuses – or at least the worst abuses – of the war on terror. all the candidates are committed to closing guantánamo, but the eu has to help by following through on its call for closure and leading an international initiative to resettle detainees who are not going to get a fair trial. but along with that – and i agree with those who say that, to be credible in the world, the eu must respect human rights internally – we must have the accountability that still has not been delivered for collusion by european governments with extraordinary rendition – which, translated, means kidnap and torture.
mr president, i just wanted to ask the commissioner before she finishes: she mentioned the international criminal court and the support the commission gives, but could she specifically answer my question and tell me what, in detail, the eu is going to do, and in her case the commission, to enforce the indictments against the people in sudan? she did not answer that question and i would be grateful... (the president cut off the speaker.)
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly can i thank the commissioner and his staff, the committee staff, my group staff and my own staff for the work that has gone into this report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on behalf of the major political groups who, in a spirit of cooperation, have made this report what it is today. i take full responsibility for the report, but all of the above have their political footprints trodden across its pages. in some sense we wish that this negotiation between the eu and asean was unnecessary. my own committee’s priority is very clear: we want a successful conclusion to the doha development round, which unfortunately looks at the moment as if it is being sucked into the black hole of the us presidential selection and election. it may hopefully emerge relatively unscathed in six or twelve months’ time after the inauguration of president clinton, mccain or obama when the us finally has a new trade spokesperson in place to continue the dialogue. but in the interim it looks like we will have negotiations with korea, where my colleague david martin was parliament’s rapporteur, with asean and with india for bilateral or eu free-trade agreements. the council’s mandate to open talks with asean, the eu’s fifth-largest trading partner, covered only seven out of the ten members of asean, since asean is an extremely diverse region ranging from economies whose gdps are equal to those of some nation states of the european union to three less developed countries, two of whom benefit from the ‘anything but arms’ provisions and one of whom is the pariah state of burma, of which we have heard so much talk today. it is clear that a free-trade agreement will potentially benefit both sides, increasing the flow of goods and services, and enhance innovation and boost economic growth. we welcome the signing of the asean charter on 20 november last year at the 13th asean summit in singapore and look forward to its swift ratification. this should help to strengthen economic integration within the asean countries and in my report we call on the commission to provide technical and other assistance to facilitate the process. the negotiations need transparency on public procurement, competition and investment, intellectual property rights and state aids. we need to talk about the removal of non-tariff as well as tariff barriers, particularly with respect to banking, insurance and legal services. on our side, simplification of the rules of origin is important. harmonisation of standards including product safety, child protection and animal welfare is something else we should be seeking. we need to protect against counterfeit pharmaceuticals, but at the same time the committee is concerned that we do not compromise the flexibility of the trips arrangement. the trade committee believes that an essential part of any agreement must be a sustainable development chapter, including a sustainability impact assessment. plus we need a parallel political cooperation agreement with binding social and environmental clauses committing both sides to the ratification of core ilo conventions, as well as the normal pca clauses on human rights and democracy. trade and sustainable development fora should be established including employers, employees and civic societies that can actually have an input not only into the negotiations but, more importantly, afterwards on how the agreement is carried out. the report suggests that we should consider environmentally friendly and fair trade goods having preferential access to the eu, that the tariff barriers should be taken down more quickly. but of course, were that to be implemented, we would require the commission to modify its customs nomenclature to enable this to happen. there are some country-specific issues. on singapore we have concerns about banking secrecy that were made clear when the committee visited and spoke to members of parliament in that country. we welcome the restoration of democracy in thailand. and of course we have agreed that burma should participate in, or at least sit in on, negotiations, though it is absolutely clear from our point of view that until the current regime has gone, there can be no prospect of signing any agreement with burma. our idea is to have a framework agreement for all that allows individual countries within asean to act on the basis of their own current situation and to open up particular sectors at an appropriate speed for them. so eventually – and i emphasise eventually – we will have a common and full agreement with all. so while one can only welcome vietnam’s leadership of the process, the institutional architecture, compounded by a lack of drive and will on the part of some asean nations, has made progress slower than anticipated or wanted. let me be clear, the european union should not allow foot-dragging by individual member states of asean to veto progress. if there is no alternative, council, commission and parliament might in the last resort look at the possibility of bilateral rather than multilateral arrangements. i hope that government and civil society in asean see parliament’s position here today as an encouragement to move forward, and move forward quickly.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, mr ford’s report as a whole is what my committee would have wanted to see. we are particularly pleased that all our main points have been incorporated. we emphasise that future industrial growth in the european union is dependent on our openness to foreign trade and investment governed by fair rules, but that our competitiveness with the asean countries is up to us, by improving our own levels of education, training, research, enterprise and innovation. we see scientific and technical cooperation and the protection of intellectual property rights as essential elements of a successful relationship. we expect, in particular, cooperation in combating counterfeiting. we look for improvement in rules of origin; in the harmonisation of standards, of product safety, child protection and animal welfare; in their bureaucratic procedures; in transparency of state aids and non-tariff barriers, and the elimination of discriminatory taxes. we expect to see covered the avoidance of environmental damage from deforestation and palm oil extraction and, while recognising the need to keep anti-dumping mechanisms at our disposal, we would much prefer avoiding the need for them by pre-emptive intervention and negotiation. we look for concerted actions with asean on the energy front and for the commission to promote joint research projects with establishments in that region. in this spirit, we look forward to a mutually beneficial and successful trade and economic relationship with the asean countries.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, firstly, let me add my congratulations to my friend and colleague, glyn ford, on what i think is an excellent report. i would also like to say to the commission that i think the commissioner was absolutely right a few years ago to launch studies into the prospect of a free-trade agreement with asean and to act on those studies. whilst, as others have said, asean is already an important region for us economically, it is one of the regions where there is the greatest potential for growth if we really can achieve our free-trade objectives. like mr šťastný, i agree that it was absolutely the right strategy to do this on a regional basis, despite all the complications that come with trying to do it this way. mr ford’s report sends a clear and consistent message to the commission: that parliament wants to see a strong sustainable development chapter in all the new generation of free-trade agreements. the report has many references to non-trade clauses which i am pleased to say are consistent with the line that i took in my own report on korea, and in particular i am pleased that the report emphasises strong social and environmental clauses. in my opinion it is important not only that the asean members ratify the eight core ilo conventions, which only cambodia, indonesia and the philippines have so far done, but also that we ensure that we put mechanisms in place to make sure they are properly enforced. the role of trade unions and workers’ organisations should be more formalised, and i am pleased that the rapporteur has suggested the creation of a trade and sustainable development forum which can monitor standards and report on any violations. in terms of environmental standards, the trade committee has highlighted in many of its recent reports – for example the lipietz report on climate change or my own report on korea – that international trade should facilitate the diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies, and i again acknowledge the fact that commissioner mandelson has on many occasions shown his commitment to reducing tariffs on environmentally-friendly technologies, and i hope the commissioner can therefore take on board the rapporteur’s suggestion to agree to this being part of the asean negotiations. any violations of social and environmental standards must be subject to the standard dispute mechanism. given that the us is committed to this approach for all their ftas, europe must achieve similarly strict enforcement measures. finally, let me just conclude by saying that, while i know we will not sign an fta with burma, i hope that burma will not indirectly benefit from this agreement, because any expanded trade with the other asean countries leads to the potential that burma could expand its trade within the group and indirectly benefit from an eu free-trade agreement. so i hope we will look at ways of ensuring that trade sanctions against the current burmese regime are enforced rigorously.
rapporteur. − mr president, can i thank all the members who participated in this evening’s debate. i am aware of the need, as mr audy has just pointed out, that we should make sure that development issues are not neglected with respect to a number of the countries, not just the philippines. as someone who is much better acquainted with indonesia than with the philippines, i am aware there that there are many parts of indonesia where it is not jakarta, it is a developing country and we need to be paying attention there. i thank mr mandelson for his comments and i would make the point that in a spirit of cooperation and consensus i have just had a conversation with mr varela suanzes-carpegna and i have agreed to withdraw amendment 11 − we will deal with this tomorrow − in exchange for him supporting, as an addition, the new parts of my amendment 12. so we have even more consensus now than we had at the beginning of this debate.
mr president, on a point of order, before we start, could i just say a quick word about the lateness of the debates on agriculture and fisheries. this consistently is the case. we are always brought to the chamber to have the last debates in the evening, both here in brussels and in strasbourg. i think it is deeply unfair. when the lisbon treaty is introduced we will have codecision powers in both the committee on agriculture and in the committee on fisheries. that means we will have equal status with all the other committees in this parliament, and yet it is the foreign affairs committee that always gets the afternoon sessions, and we are always made to speak late in the evening while our foreign affairs colleagues can go for an early dinner and an early bed. i do not see that that is appropriate, and i appeal to you, mr president, to take to the conference of presidents – to the presidency of this parliament – our complaint on behalf of all the fisheries and agriculture committee members that we object to this and we wish fair play in the future. sometimes we are prepared to speak late in debates, but sometimes we wish to be given preference and to speak early in the afternoon. i hope you will take that on board.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, can i firstly congratulate mrs miguélez ramos on the excellent work that she has done in compiling this report. the science in relation to deep-sea stocks is not yet fully developed. however, we do know that these species live at great depths – we have heard from 400 metres to over 2 000 metres and even deeper. we know that they are slow maturing, not reaching breeding age sometimes until they are at least 25 years old, and they have a very low reproductive capacity. we know that there are millions of different species living at these great depths, of which only very few are edible. as a result, we know that fishermen in the deep-water fishery regularly discard around 55% of all the fish they catch. we know that the kind of fishing commonly carried out over sensitive deep-water ecosystems can be horrifically destructive – cold-water coral, sea-mounts and hydrothermal vents can be destroyed. bottom-trawlers are operating in a way that would require a major environmental impact assessment in any other industry operating in deep-sea areas. so we need to apply strict controls to the type of gear being used in these deep-water fisheries. we need to avoid destructive gear. we need to ensure that such fishing activity is only permitted in areas where we can be certain there will be no damage. we need to avoid situations where nets can break loose and continue ghost fishing for decades. having said this, i recognise the nature of the artisanal fishery off the coast of portugal and around the azores, where the fishing is carried out in a sustainable way. i accept that we should not target such fisheries for excessive controls. so we are dealing with this against a background of poor existing legislation, poor monitoring, poor science, poor feedback from member states and a lack of overall credible information. i can only hope that this report paves the way for major improvements.
the next item is the report by alexander stubb, replaced by ingo friedrich, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the framework for the activities of lobbyists in the eu institutions (2007/2115(ini)) (a6-0105/2008).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, the committee on legal affairs was very supportive of the commission’s initiative and of the rapporteur’s stance. i think we supported without question that there should also be a coordinated approach between all the institutions. but, having said that, we would wish to emphasise the particular openness of this institution as a democratic decision-making body; further, that lobbyists should be treated equally. in that sense, in the longer term, we would want to move towards a mandatory register where everybody is treated equally. i would like to return, if i may, to the issue of lawyers as lobbyists, which mr turmes has just raised. there is an issue here, and i would ask everybody to have careful regard to the very nuanced definition that the committee on legal affairs gave in relation to when is a lawyer a lawyer, and when is a lawyer a lobbyist? that definition was very carefully thought through, and i would ask that that is the one that be taken into consideration.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this house should welcome all initiatives which increase the transparency of the eu institutions, which is why i support the proposals before us today. however, we must ensure that the nature of the work of each institution is also taken into account. parliament to this end works in a wholly different way to the council and at a different stage in the legislative process from the commission. taking this into account, a common single register for all institutions would, i believe, be very difficult to achieve and would in fact put in place an over-bureaucratic procedure for applying for access when lobbying only the parliament. we are also an autonomous institution and i do not feel it is therefore appropriate for other institutions to dictate our policies in this area. i would also like to raise an issue which has previously been brought up in this chamber by a number of colleagues: how ngos, in particular, are financed by the commission and, in turn, use this money to lobby meps into taking certain positions. if the end result of what we are debating is to increase transparency, the house must be provided with a certain amount of non-commercially-sensitive data on how these organisations who lobby us are financed. on a more general note, i express concern at the free access that some lobbyists have to members’ office floors in this parliament. once in the building, people are freely able to walk around and have unrestricted access to private offices. having the right to freely roam the building does nothing for transparency, but leads to malpractice by some individuals. i am sure members have all experienced this. in many of our national parliaments, there are central lobby areas where lobbyists who have appointments can be greeted and escorted to members’ office areas. we should, in my view, try to implement a similar system. overall, i am pleased to see parliament addressing the issue of transparency, but we must also ensure that the organisations who lobby us are just as transparent as we are.
thank you, mr bonde. i am sure you have the best wishes of many colleagues in your retirement. we may not always agree with what you say, but you are always worth listening to.
mr president, we can be proud of the fact that the european parliament in many ways is already at the forefront when compared to some national parliaments in terms of how we handle these issues. we already have a register of interests. we have a code of conduct for lobbyists, and we have an absolute prohibition on members of parliament receiving gifts. that is good. what the issue is here is whether we can extend this system to cover the other institutions. we are willing to embark on negotiations to attempt to do so, to try and reach agreement – because that would be better – and, secondly, whether we can upgrade the requirements and be even more at the forefront of openness and transparency. my group supports the report, which attempts to do that. we also support many of the amendments which would improve the report and would indeed increase the transparency requirements. we are even supporting some of the amendments from the green group, but not an amendment which would actually limit the way it is written and would actually set a ceiling on the transparency requirement. so i was somewhat astonished to hear the spokesman of the committee on the environment attack the socialist group for being less transparent than the greens, when in fact the greens have an amendment which, if you read it literally, would actually put a ceiling on the transparency requirement. that is the position of our group. we are at the forefront of openness and transparency on this, and we do resent unwarranted attacks on our position by groups who are trying to portray themselves in public opinion as being the champions of all this, ahead of everybody else, when they are not.
i long ago learnt it is not worth trying to stop mrs lulling from speaking. (laughter)
i would like to thank mr friedrich for taking over the report from mr stubb, who has our congratulations on being appointed finnish foreign minister. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a. m. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by manolis mavrommatis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the white paper on sport (2007/2261(ini)) (a6-0149/2008).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, i welcome the white paper on sport and i particularly support the emphasis on securing greater legal certainty, because relying on a case-by-case approach in the courts has led to an inconsistency of approach in terms of governing sport. i note the actions that the commission has outlined this morning, but i would like to ask the commissioner to comment on whether it intends to propose guidelines to clarify which aspects of sport are governed by eu law and which are exempt and should be dealt with by sporting bodies. another issue which i believe the commission needs to tackle urgently is that of illegal trafficking of children, especially from west africa, to the european union due to demand in europe for talented african players. this has sparked a growth of unlicensed football academies in some african countries and i am deeply concerned that young children are being exploited by ruthless agents and then sold on to clubs as if they were commodities. some find themselves abandoned in europe, having sacrificed their family’s entire savings to pursue their dreams. stronger action by member states, european clubs and african governments should be taken to ensure that they do not participate in this. finally, i would like to ask the commission what deliberations it has engaged in on the issue of sports and intellectual property rights, especially with the growing accessibility of sports footage on the internet.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it will not surprise you, but i do not welcome the conclusions of this report. the fact that it declares ‘sport is rightly subject to the application of the acquis communautaire’ flies in the face of all current evidence. it ignores the most public lament of sports bodies throughout europe: that the bosman and kolpak rulings have left then unable to foster the development of home-grown sports talent. as a direct result, national teams are underperforming on the international stage. even the president of fifa, sepp blatter, believes the rules need to be changed. but if sports bodies thought the current situation was bad, the lisbon treaty is going to make things even worse by providing the commission with the treaty heading it requires to start interfering – i am sorry, legislating – over sport directly. the uk government’s refusal to honour its promise to hold a referendum on the treaty means we do not have the opportunity to save sport in the uk from the impending doom of commission interference. perhaps the vote in ireland will save us all.
mr president, in sport we must not let good intentions bring unintended consequences. economic competition rules cannot always apply. collective selling of television rights is the financial lifeline for many clubs that would otherwise be squeezed out by the famous. in a utopian world we could watch everything and never pay, but in the real world that would result in little of quality being left to watch. observance of copyright protects the income that maintains high-quality events. rising instances of ambush marketing and circulation of unauthorised highlights is as damaging as any other kind of piracy. it is also imperative not to inhibit flexibility in the means of raising income, movement of players or their ability to choose where to sign their first contracts. finally, we should stick firmly to subsidiarity and keeping decision-making within the industry and close to fans.
mr president, sport should, of course, be run by the sporting authorities themselves but, to the extent that it is also an economic activity, it unavoidably falls under employment law, competition law, copyright law, media rights and so on. the problem is that these laws have often been drawn up without the specific needs and requirements of sport in mind. under the current treaties, there is little leeway to take account of those specific needs. i am glad that with the lisbon treaty, there will be a greater margin to allow us to derogate, to make exceptions or to interpret laws with the specific needs of sport in mind. we cannot, for instance, apply competition law in its purely economic sense if that would ultimately destroy competition in its sporting sense. there is no better example of this than the collective sale of tv rights, as is practised by the english premier league, for instance, with redistribution to all clubs. this is in contrast to spain where two clubs pick up more than half of the tv revenue just for themselves. we should also accept that the uefa scheme of home-grown players is a proportionate response and is acceptable under european union law, unlike fifa’s bull-in-a-china-shop ‘six-plus-five’ scheme.
mr president, before i speak i should declare that i have a number of financial interests related to this subject, which are listed in my declaration available on the internet. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mavrommatis, for his concern and knowledge of this subject, especially regarding doping in sport. in fact, the first draft of his report, before the amendments came in, was probably as good a document on this subject as you will ever find in short form. as ever, though, the committees came in at this point, and the amendments that were adopted in the committee on culture ruined just about any good work that was done. for example, the bizarre call for a european police force for sport in paragraph 59, or the talk about ‘financial doping’ in paragraph 16, which is having a snipe against private investment and in some cases inward investment into the european union. this report unfortunately looks at sport through the lens of professional football. as a soccer referee, mainly at the amateur level, for the last 28 years, i can tell you this report does absolutely nothing to address the problems that amateur football has, let alone those of amateur sport in general. this house says that we are not trying to influence the decisions of governing bodies, but already we have seen in the debate today an attack on fifa’s ‘six-plus-five’ idea. governing bodies should watch out. giving the priority on sport to the european union is not a good thing. turning to sports betting, we have heard many views on this. using this report to try and close down the debate on liberalising gambling and the lottery market is plainly wrong. this debate should go in a different direction and come from a different committee. those that talk about it should just look at what is happening in italy, where the gradual liberalisation of the market has grown the amount of money available to all. we have talked about the collective selling of television rights which i am in favour of because it has worked in the uk, but i strongly believe in subsidiarity and surely this should be left to the member states. there are many good things in this white paper on sport, even if too little mention is made of the special olympics and the paralympics movements. but, overall, this report is an insult to the irish voters by talking about the lisbon treaty as if it were already here and as if their vote does not count. therefore the uk conservative delegation will have to vote against at the end.
rapporteur. − madam president, following the debate last night, i have agreed to withdraw amendment 11 and to have amendment 12 to paragraph 17 as an addition. this is following an agreement with mr varela suanzes-carpegna from the ppe-de group.
madam president, thank you very much for this opportunity to explain the way i voted on the tec agreement. i think it is fair to say that we all welcome regulatory cooperation, especially where this will help to facilitate more trade and especially where it helps facilitate transatlantic trade, because all too often, our two large trading blocks – the eu and the us – are at loggerheads on trade issues. however, we should ensure that any agreements that we come to on common regulatory standards are not used as an excuse for joint protectionism. we have to make sure that any global standards that we arrive at together are not used as an excuse to shut out producers and suppliers from other world markets. therefore, as we seek to adopt common global standards, let us make sure that we are also in a position to help producers from poorer countries to adopt those standards as well, so that we are not using these standards as an excuse to shut them out from world markets. altogether i think on both sides we welcome this agreement, and for this reason i voted in favour.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report. i think the eu’s work in election observation missions is extremely powerful, it is extremely important, and it is conducted with a great degree of professionalism. it contributes to the democratic process and to democratic development in many underprivileged and developing countries. i had the privilege of being chairman of parliament’s election observation mission in sierra leone, a very difficult country, a very poor country, a country that presented many logistical difficulties, particularly weather difficulties in the rainy season, with the mission that was conducted. it was conducted with great professionalism by all of the staff, both eu staff and locally-recruited staff. it was indeed very humbling to see the enthusiasm with which the election was viewed by many ordinary sierra leoneans, queuing up for many hours in the rain to cast their votes in a democratic election. our contribution to that is well worth the relatively small amount of money, and i am delighted to welcome this report and vote in favour of it.
madam president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to give my explanation of vote on the ford report on the agreement with asean. in general i think we prefer to improve and increase international trade through the multilateral framework of the world trade organisation, but i think we have to recognise the role that bilaterals play in extending trade and the benefits of globalisation throughout the world. i thought it was particularly important in this report that we highlighted human rights issues. generally i am rather sceptical when we do this, because quite often it is an excuse for protectionism against products from other countries. but in this context it is particularly appropriate, given that burma is a member of asean. however, i did have a real problem with this, because i did initially put an amendment to committee, which was accepted, saying that if particular asean countries did not want to be part of this agreement, we should still go ahead with agreements with those countries that did want to. we should not let the most protectionist country hold up agreements. unfortunately the eu is hell-bent on trade-block-to-trade-block negotiations, and for this reason i abstained.
madam president, firstly it is a huge pleasure to see you in the chair today. you should be chairing more sessions. it is also a huge pleasure to follow mr fatuzzo in an explanation of vote. fortunately, i did not do it through my first mandate, otherwise i would never have had lunch in strasbourg. i was wondering, when we were voting on this report, whether we were actually targeting the correct audience. it is good that we are honest about the lobbyists that we see in this place, and it is good that we get a record of who the commission is seeing. but i do wonder if we should not get a record also of who the commission is influencing to try and influence parliamentary votes on directives it is sending through. already we have had exposed by my illustrious colleague mr hannon, in commission questions, the amount of money that charity organisations like the nspcc in the uk get directly from the european commission, and then it comes as no surprise when they write to us to say: actually, we should be in favour of the lisbon treaty. there are a whole bunch of organisations that received eu money when it came to the citizens’ agora in the build-up to the lisbon treaty, yet they were all on one side of the argument. there is a small problem with democracy in this place: the people we fund tend to be the wrong ones, and actually it would be better if we cut all this money out altogether.
madam president, lobbyists love brussels. they arrive in the european institutions and they perceive at once that the system was designed by and for people like them. they can get legislation through here that would never pass through a popularly elected legislature. i am thinking of bills such as the ban on higher-dose vitamin and mineral supplements that was the subject of intense opposition in all the member states but that was pushed through here by a few large pharmaceutical corporations in backroom deals. so much, i think, is well known outside this chamber. what is perhaps less widely appreciated is the extent to which these lobbying organisations, as my colleague mr heaton-harris has just said, are themselves creatures of the european union, wholly dependent on the commission for their funding. and so, when the european commission goes through the motions of consulting civil society, what it actually means is that it is consulting the european union of journalists, the european women’s lobby, the european trades unions congress and a bunch of other organisations that depend on the european taxpayer for every euro of their income. i am bound to ask whether there is anybody out there in the nation states who genuinely supports this project without, on some level, being paid to. the way of testing whether i am right about that is to put your lisbon treaty to the people in a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
madam president, i did speak in the main debate on this subject. but what i did not do was actually explain why i voted against. this was because of all sorts of reasons i explained in my vote. i would have loved to have voted in favour of this, if only the european institutions were doing something useful in sport. last year in the budget debate, we actually voted as a parliament against a line of money which had been match-funded for the special olympic movement for unified sports, a programme which would have run across 10 countries of the european union involving 3 000 people with intellectual disability. i am bringing this proposal back – and i have been talking to all the different rapporteurs in this place – but you do wonder actually how interested this place is in sport. maybe it just wants to suck the power up so it can dabble in people’s everyday lives. but it does not want to actually do anything positive sometimes when it comes to people with disabilities. i think we missed an opportunity last year. i will be pressing this again this year and i record this interest with the special olympics, a wonderful organisation, here today.
madam president, i do not know whether i am in order or not. i have not made a written application for an explanation of vote. but if i may just very briefly reply to my good friend and colleague, mr heaton-harris, i think we all have our own points of view about the value of the european institutions, but i do not think it is fair to attack the european union, national governments, local government, for being interested or disinterested in the question of the disabled and sport. i have many examples in my constituency where the european union quite frankly has brought enormous benefits to people – disabled and, indeed, not disabled. i just think it is unfair to attack any institution in that way. i think all of us want to do what we can to encourage sport, to encourage everybody to take a fair part. whether you are pro-european or anti-european, that is another issue.
in writing. − i voted against the report of mr ortuondo larrea relating to a fishing agreement with the seychelles. the cfp has been an unmitigated disaster and has not promoted a sustainable fishing industry around our coasts. as a result of this, hundreds of scottish boats have had to be scrapped and fishing communities have suffered. the answer to this is not to export other member states’ over-capacity in the form of third-country fishing agreements. if other member states have too many boats to fish their own traditional fishing waters they should address this issue themselves – and not depend upon the eu to find more waters for them to plunder.
in writing. − as a co-author of this resolution, i am in support of the realistic intentions of the tec process. it is necessary for the eu and the usa to undertake this search for barrier-reducing initiatives. in particular i welcome the steady progress that has been made on financial services, ifrs and the broker/dealer agreement. more has to be done and other avenues should be explored, including the multilateral approach. i am concerned, however, that both sides should not wait for remedies which may or may not close differences between us. this will take hard work instead, and this is no more apparent than in the area of insurance and, in particular, the collateral issue. the tec is not a trade issue per se. it is about a deepening of our relationship at the regulatory level which improves the openness and efficiency of our industrial performances and which does away with the weak excuses of the past. we now face a mounting challenge in the world where the interest for the eu and the usa is in having systems which promote growth rather than protectionism and isolationism. tec helps to bring the eu and usa closer together, but it will not do to rely on the outcomes of tec by themselves. more needs to be done to fold this kind of approach into our day-to-day considerations at this level. failure is all too easy to predict based on our political economies – hard work is needed to overcome this fear.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the cappato report on human rights. human rights abuses take place around the world and we in the eu must always act as advocates for those who suffer as a result. we must also be alert to human rights abuses taking place within our own borders – with the example of rendition flights serving to show us how easily these abuses can happen.
in writing. − i welcome mr cappato’s report on the state of human rights in the world in 2007 and the eu’s policy in this area. the report highlights the need for the eu to increase its focus on human rights, particularly in trade negotiations. as well as recognising the shortcomings on human rights identified in the report i also support certain solutions mr cappato proposes such as a greater role for the parliament’s human rights subcommittee and council involvement in such debates. i voted in support of the report.
in writing. − with the dramatic rise in global food prices, the need to see having enough food as a human right is important. this food crisis, where the poorest in our world will suffer the most, needs immediate action. i call on the european council and commission to use all means necessary to help those affected by the dramatic increase in food prices.
in writing. − british conservatives recognise the important role of the eu in promoting human rights and democracy in the world. we can support a number of important points that are contained in the cappato report. however, there are a number of paragraphs that we fundamentally disagree with. for instance, paragraphs 2, 5, 14, 15, 30 and 38. in addition, british conservative members have, in accordance with convention, been given a free vote on matters relating to the death penalty and abortion. we have voted in favour on the final vote because we wish to make clear our support, in principle, for the cause of upholding and strengthening human rights throughout the world. we believe the eu’s member states have an important role to play in this task.
in writing. − i support de keyser and salafranca's report as someone who has been on two occasions a chief observer on behalf of the european union; indonesia 2004, aceh 2006/7. i believe that the work done by the union improving the integrity of the electoral process is vital. our job is generally not to confirm the winners but to reassure those who have lost that they have lost fairly and can be vital in diffusing tension post election. while i agree with the participation of nationals from countries outside the eu like switzerland, norway and canada, we do need to ensure that the majority of those present are eu nationals. on one occasion to my knowledge they were close to forming a majority of the missions observers. it is right and proper as paragraph 38 states that we should give support post election to new parliaments. i am aware as someone who has behalf on the undp on advising the new indonesian parliament in 1999 on revisions to their rules of procedure, of exactly how useful this can be. i congratulate my two colleagues on their report which i am sure we will revisit in the new legislature after 2009.
in writing. − i supported the de keyser/salafranca sanchez-neyra report, which deals with important issues. the eu’s commitment to reinforcing democratic processes is a worthy cause and the report rightly notes that democracy can only exist within the context of the long-term rooting of democratic values. this crucial fact was ignored when the us and uk decided to go to war in iraq. the disastrous circumstances which now exist in that country merely go to prove that democratic values must be nurtured and cannot exist at the end of the barrel of a gun.
in writing. − election observation missions form a key part of the eu’s foreign policy role. as a union of democratic states, the eu’s experience should be shared effectively and requests for our cooperation in the election process should be encouraged throughout the world. it is by improving the practices and methodology of the union’s observation missions that we can effectively contribute to strengthening democracy throughout the world. i therefore voted in favour of mr salafranca sánchez-neyra’s and mrs de keyser’s joint report.
in writing. − i support glyn ford’s report on trade and economic relations with asean. it is essential that the commission includes strong ipr clauses in the new generation of ftas that it is proposing. such a move would not only stimulate innovation and research in the asean countries but also, more importantly protect consumers from unsafe counterfeit goods such as fake pharmaceuticals. indeed, a recent oecd survey on counterfeiting, discussed in parliament this week, states that trade in counterfeit goods in malaysia and the philippines has reached proportions similar to china. the report deals with these issues and i voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. − i shall be voting in favour of this excellent report. key for me were amendments 7 and 14 and paragraph 42. these sections recognise the importance of ensuring accessible and sustainable public services - amendment 7; the enforcement of labour standards through a dispute settlement mechanism - amendment 14; and the need to treat environmentally friendly and fair trade goods differently when it comes to tariffs - paragraph 42. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr ford, on his report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the miguélez ramos report on deep-sea fisheries. deep-sea fishing is a fairly recent innovation and a number of previously unexploited fish stocks have been targeted with little scientific research or legal regulation. it is right therefore that these issues are addressed. i welcome the call in mrs miguélez ramos’ report for fishermen and their associations to be fully involved in defining measures designed to safeguard the marine environment. sustainable fisheries depend upon decisions being taken at a local level and involving those to whom they are addressed.
in writing. − i will be supporting this report, strengthening as it does the rules of the european institutions regarding lobbyists. i was the author of the first report on this subject more than a decade ago, in january 1996, produced by the then rules committee, and the legislations we currently have in place regarding lobbyist are those proposed in my original report. more than 10 years on it is clearly time to modify and strengthen these rules. we failed last time to have a common system for all of the institutions but this now seems possible. for me lobbyists are all those who want to come into the parliament, commission or council to influence the decision-making process, whether employers or employees, consumer groups, producer groups or special interest groups. it is estimated there are around 5 000 lobbyist in brussels – seven for each and every mep. the vast majority do a good job – a very small number do not. we need to ensure that the few do not taint the many and that our work benefits from outside inputs rather than being distorted by it. i look forward to the proposals for a ‘common legislation’ by the end of the year.
in writing. − i welcome the proposed register of lobbyists. at a time when public confidence in politics is at a low, it is essential that the political institutions are as transparent in their operations as possible. i also welcome the fact that lawyers will be exempt from registration when giving legal advice; this is in keeping with the principle long recognised in the scottish legal tradition of lawyer-client confidentiality. however, a number of my own group’s key amendments designed to make stricter rules were unsuccessful and accordingly both i and the group abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation contained within the report ‘framework for the activities of lobbyists in the eu institutions’. these proposals for more transparency in lobbying place the european parliament well ahead of almost any other parliament in the world in terms of regulating lobbyists and ensuring full financial disclosure.
in writing. − the need for greater transparency of lobbying is essential in the european parliament. i hope that this report will increase openness and transparency of lobbying in parliament.
in writing. − we accept the specificity of sport; however, the english version of recital i is extremely unclear and open to misinterpretation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendments to the mavrommatis report explicitly recognising the autonomy of sports organisations. my own country, scotland, has a long tradition of autonomous, independent sporting bodies with organisations such as the scottish football association being recognised as a full member state organisation of fifa and likewise the scottish rugby union being a member state within the irb. this recognition of scottish sporting independence has played an important role in my country’s past and will play an important role after the 2010 scottish independence referendum – when scotland will become a full, independent member state of the eu.
in writing. − i generally support manolis mavrommatis’ white paper on sport. i believe that most of its recommendations will benefit sport at all levels across the eu. indeed, i feel that encouraging football clubs to focus on nurturing talent is a positive step for the game. every club – even the big ones – must accept some responsibility for training and not rely solely on their financial muscle in the transfer market to acquire players who were trained by others. football should not be merely a financial contest.
in writing. − sport is an important part of everyday life. most eu citizens either participate or spectate at a number of sporting events and it is often seen as more important than life itself at times. sport should not be above the law, but we as legislators should also recognise the unique position sport has within the european union and the role played by various governing bodies. we should also recognise that whilst association football is the dominant game, it is not the only game being played, and we must recognise that other sports and pastimes as diverse as rugby league and hurling or crown green bowling and pigeon racing have an important part to play. it is not the role of the eu to govern these sports nor indeed act as some kind of sports police. that role should remain with the appropriate governing body. however, the eu can be complementary in nature and help in developing all kinds of sport by speaking out against sporting discrimination which still happens when one sport feels threatened by another. i cite the greek rugby union as a classic example. i will be supporting the mavrommatis report, perhaps not as enthusiastically as i support wigan warriors rugby league team or st mirren and blackburn rovers, but then again this is only politics when all is said and done.
in writing. − this report on the white paper on sport needs to recognise that there is a subsidiarity issue over sport in the eu. that is why i support amendment no 2.
in writing. − on behalf of the eplp. we accept the specificity of sport, however, the english version of recital i is extremely unclear and open to misinterpretation.
mr president, britain is one of seven countries proposing legislation to adopt a council framework decision for common rules on the enforcement of legal decisions rendered in absentia. it will mean that a british citizen can be tried, convicted and sentenced in a foreign country without their presence in a court of law, and then removed to that country for imprisonment. they will find themselves in a position not of defending themselves in a trial, but of proving themselves innocent after a conviction. whilst there is a provision for retrials, not all eu member states recognise retrials under their legal systems. this will further destroy the principle of habeas corpus and the freedom from arbitrary arrest and imprisonment traditionally enjoyed by british citizens and fundamental to english law and freedoms. everything that was good about britain is gradually being destroyed by membership of this malignant organisation known as the european union.
mr president, i rise on the situation of the roma minority and citizens from new member states in italy. in recent days there have been police raids on roma communities in rome. 118 of those detained have been ordered to be expelled immediately and the new mayor has said that he will expel 20 000 people. there have been arson attacks on roma camps in the suburbs of naples, with the mob preventing fire services getting in to extinguish the fires. hundreds of immigrant families have fled for their lives and there are reports of a number of children missing. my colleague, viktória mohácsi, has been in rome. she has sent worrying reports and i hope she will have an opportunity to respond to the council’s statement tomorrow. we know attacks in many of our member states on immigrant communities are a problem, but the level of violence in italy is unusual. the osce has accused italy of stigmatising migrants and it seems to me that the nature of the recent election campaign has led to a culture of impunity for those carrying out these attacks. even commissioner frattini, who was the first to lecture the new member states on the integration of ethnic minorities, is now questioning the schengen agreements. this issue is of europe-wide concern. it goes to the heart of the reasons for founding the european union and i would urge the commission and the council urgently to discuss the matter to see what can be done to help.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as has already been said, we should thank mr nassauer for his work on this first-reading agreement; also particular thanks should go to the commission for helping us get there in the end. as mr medina has just said, it has been and will be a noteworthy first-reading agreement. it is historic in the development of the codecision process and particularly for this house to be involved in setting penalties in relation to criminal law. it really is a noteworthy development. this directive will at last bring legal certainty in an area where in the past we have witnessed a rather undignified ping-pong between the european court of justice and the various arms of the european legislature. now we have some certainty and some clarity. above all, it is a big plus for protection of the environment. over the years, as a member of the committee on petitions, i have noted that it is damage to the environment that most frequently brings our citizens to seek our help in implementing what they see should be european law. now at last we will be able to say that we have – or should have – the effective means to make sure that european environmental law is indeed implemented and enforced as our citizens expect across the european union. but not only that – there is another strong message for this parliament here. one of the things we insisted on in this agreement was the so-called correlation tables. these would enable us to see, in this very complex piece of legislation, exactly where member states insert european legislation into their national law. this is something that we are serious about as a parliament and at last we have been heard. i think it goes a long way towards showing our competence and growing effectiveness as a legislature, which augurs well for the coming entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, on 21 april the bureau adopted preliminary draft estimates totalling over eur 1.5 billion for the cost of the european parliament. 2009 will see the impact of the lisbon treaty – if indeed it is ratified by all member states. we were told that the lisbon treaty – in fact, the european constitution by another name – was just a tidying-up exercise which would simplify the workings of parliament. but eur 2 million is being asked for by officials to cover the additional costs that will be created by the treaty and 65 new jobs will be required in parliament alone to help political groups understand it. this is all being approved before the treaty is ratified in britain and before the people of ireland have had their say in a referendum. of course, parliament has already decided that it will ignore the decision of the irish people if they vote ‘no’, and, in order to encourage the irish to vote ‘yes’, the eu has promised ireland another eur 332 million in funding. let us hope that the irish do not hold their freedom so cheap. but as that great englishman, ken dodd, once remarked, every cloud has a silver lining, plus vat. the report notes that there is an additional need for more money for the visitors’ centre. i have always thought that the more visitors that come to parliament and see the great talking shop and legislative sausage-machine in action, the more they will turn against it. if every european citizen could see the chaotic and shambolic way in which legislation is voted on in this parliament, then there would be a party like the uk independence party in every eu member state. that, at least, would be money well spent.
madam president, it is a pleasure to speak on mr holm’s report on trade in raw materials and commodities. last month i had the privilege of attending, on behalf of parliament, the unctad xii conference in accra. from that conference there came a cry for help for the world’s poor. escalating food prices are increasingly leading to rioting on the streets, and we need a fresh approach if we are to deal with this situation. the new crisis threatens to kill more in a day than have died from terrorism in the six years since 9/11. politicians and governments may not yet have noticed, but the world’s poor are seeing their children increasingly go hungry. the impact will be particularly acute in africa, where commodity prices have more than doubled in the last 12 months and continue to soar owing to speculation, shortages and changing patterns of production. the root causes are growing demand from east asia and the supply consequences of a failure to invest in agriculture. climate change, written in the language of floods, droughts and record-breaking temperatures, is only making the situation worse, particularly for the world’s poorest. it is therefore my hope that we adopt this resolution.
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, chuir an clár um shíocháin agus athmhuintearas cuid mhór leis an phróiseas síochána agus le próiseas athmhuintearais náisiúnta in éirinn. dáileadh eur 750 milliún ón chéad chlár, peace i, idir 1995 agus 1999 agus eur 994 milliún ón dara clár, peace ii, idir 2000 agus 2007. dáilfear eur 333 milliún sa tríú clár, peace iii, ó seo go dtí 2013. is mór an tairbhe a baineadh as na suimeanna airgid le tacaíocht a thabhairt dóibh siúd ar spéis leo teacht as coimhlint agus páirt a ghlacadh sa phróiseas athmhuintearais. ina theannta sin, is é a bhí sna suimeanna úd ná infheistíocht mhaith mar a fheicimid leis an gheilleagar fiontrach ag teacht chun cinn i dtuaisceart éireann agus sna ceantair teorann. ar ndóigh is próiseas leanúnach é próiseas an athmhuintearais agus tógáil síochána. anois, i mbéal feirste tá feidhmeannas comhroinnte cumhachta ag déileáil le ceisteanna áitiúla do dhaoine áitiúla. deich lá ó shin, bhí comhdháil infheistíochta mhór ar siúl i mbéal feirste mar a raibh infheisteoirí ag scrúdú go bríomhar deiseanna infheistíochta. taispeánann na céimeanna seo muinín nua sa pholaitíocht agus inár dtodhchaí eacnamaíoch. bhí páirt mhór ag ionchur peace chun an mhuinín sin a spreagadh agus ag ionchur ón chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn – arb é an taontas eorpach an ranníocóir is mó anois ann. agus na rannpháirtithe anois ag cur tús le cur i bhfeidhm an tríú clár, peace iii, is pléisiúr dom barúil na parlaiminte i leith na hoibre atá déanta go dtí seo a thabhairt agus roinnt breathnuithe ar ról peace amach anseo a chur chun tosaigh. ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil le baill an choiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach as ucht a dtacaíochta agus leis na scáthrapoirtéirí go háirithe as ucht ionchur seo acu go dtí seo. is iad rannpháirteachas, aithint idirspleáchas gach duine, cur chun cinn na héagsúlachta, agus díothú rathúil neamhionannais atá ina n-eilimintí tábhachtacha de thógáil síochána agus atógáil sochaithe, mar an gcéanna le cosaint agus cur chun cinn chearta an duine. leis na cláir peace, cumhachtaíodh na daoine is mó a ndeachaigh an choimhlint go mór i bhfeidhm orthu chun cabhrú le síocháin a thógáil go gníomhach agus go muiníneach. tá cumasú daoine áitiúla mar chuid lárnach den chlár peace agus ba mhaith liom an deis seo a thapú chun ómós a thabhairt do na heagraíochtaí deonacha, don lucht gnó, do na grúpaí pobail, do na comhairlí áitiúla agus dóibh siúd atá ag obair le hiarchimí, agus le híospartaigh agus le marthanóirí as ucht a dtiomantais dhaingin don phobal agus don phróiseas athmhuintearais. níor chóir don chomhoibriú stopadh idir rannpháirtithe i gcláir arna maoiniú ag peace nuair a thiocfaidh na cláir sin chun deiridh. iarraimid ar na ranna rialtais an obair sin, a chruthaigh go raibh sí éifeachtach, a chothú agus a chinntiú go leanfar den chistiú don obair luachmhar seo. ba chóir bealach a fháil go háirithe lena bhféadfaidh grúpaí tacaíochta íospartach agus marthanóirí leanúint de thacaíocht airgeadais a fháil tar éis deireadh a bheith tagtha le cistúchán peace. ar ndóigh is féidir rud éigin a thabhairt ar ais fosta agus taithí a mhalartú faoi na nithe ar éirigh go maith leo i dtograí cistithe ag peace i mar aon leis an chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éireann. ba chóir go roinnfí an t-eispéireas arna fháil ó na tograí seo leo siúd a bhíonn ag gabháil d’obair eile tógála síochána go hidirnáisiúnta agus tá na féidearthachtaí faoi chaibidil faoi láthair. is é atá sa tuarascáil ná iarracht a dhéanamh na ceachtanna atá le foghlaim a chur faoi bhur mbráid agus fáiltím roimh an díospóireacht seo anocht.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, you cannot put a price on peace, but the series of peace programmes in northern ireland since 1995 have supported the peace process in ireland with a goal of reinforcing a peaceful and stable society and promoting reconciliation in the region. i congratulate bairbre de brún on this own-initiative report, which describes the positive results and best practice gained from this eu programme. the peace-building aspect of the programme is crucial for the future of northern ireland and offers lessons for other eu member states with a history of conflict. the peace ii programme allowed for valuable exchanges of experience between areas – including albania, belarus, moldavia, serbia, ukraine and bosnia. i welcome the current discussion on the possibilities of creating a europe-wide network of regions and cities that are coming out of conflict, that have experience in coming out of conflict or that are living with conflict and exclusion. reconciliation is a long-term process and i support the continuation of the peace programme. within the process it is important to involve local communities, and mrs de brún’s report highlights the wide range of projects including childcare, after-school projects, enterprise parks and small business enterprise, in both the rural and urban areas. many of the projects funded under peace were set up to serve local requirements. they also attracted a wide range of diverse participants to seek a common aim or benefit and help in developing models for public engagement in policy development. women’s groups played a very positive role in peace-building. i thank mrs de brún and i hope that all will support this constructive report.
mr president, this is a report of verbiage, not substance, just as much of the peace funding itself was spent upon froth. the irony, of course, of an ira/sinn féin mep being rapporteur on a report on peace will not be lost on thousands of people in northern ireland whom her wicked organisation made victims through its pernicious terrorist campaign. it is no surprise to me that she can produce a report talking about peace without a single blushing reference, without a scintilla of regret as to how we came to need peace: because, make no mistake about it, of her ira’s decades of terror. nor am i surprised that she makes no mention of one of the gross failures of the peace programme, namely the inequality in distribution between the two communities in northern ireland, with the protestant unionist community not getting its fair share of funding. not something, of course, likely to concern miss de brún. finally, let me place on record that the relative peace we have today in northern ireland is primarily due not to some eu peace programme but to the remarkable tenacity, courage and sacrifice of our marvellous security forces, who faced down the ira which robbed us of peace for so long.
mr president, why are we passing this resolution? is it a specific remedy to an identified problem? or are we rather passing it to make ourselves feel better, to feel that we have done our little bit for the peace process? i ask that question with some regret. i am as big a supporter of the peace process in northern ireland as any member of this chamber and, indeed, possibly rather more than some. being on one side ulster catholic, on the other, scots presbyterian, i have always felt that i have something of a personal stake in power sharing. but the peace process is not guaranteed by external subventions. on the contrary, there is a danger that this flow of money turns what was an enterprising and thrifty part of the world in to a subsidy junkie, dependent on handouts from elsewhere. ask yourselves – i put this quite seriously – when you sign those cheques for those hundreds of millions of euros, whether you actually think you are buying stability and peace in that part of the world, or whether you are not just allowing yourselves to feel slightly better for a few minutes. the idea that political violence is caused by deprivation is simply not borne out in reality. it is one of the many ideas that derive from karl marx and, like a lot of his ideas, it sounds plausible on the page, but it turns out not to be true in reality. the most subsidised territory in the world, more than anywhere in africa per capita, is palestine, which is also one of the most violent. the truth is that, if we want to support the peace process in northern ireland, we have to create a genuine democracy there, where there is a genuine opposition and the ability to change your government. if you do that, we will not need the money.
mr president, it is all very easy and very well for miss harkin to come to this house and to talk in the way she has talked. how many constituents has she buried, murdered by terrorists? how many people have died in her constituency because the organisation that miss de brún represents decided they would die in pursuit of a political campaign? the ira murdered 2 000 of my constituents, so no one will lecture me in this house about the deep-seated feelings that i have, and no one will contradict me with justification for pointing out that the people that put so many of my constituents in their graves are the ira, which miss de brún represents in this house. to now see them in the government of my country is stomach-churning, and to find that they are there because they murdered and as a buy-off so that they will not murder again makes it even worse.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say that this debate has clearly confirmed the importance of the peace process in northern ireland and that important lessons have been learned during this process. the commission will continue its contribution to consolidating the reconciliation process and will also facilitate the sharing of the lessons learned from the experience of peace-building with all other areas facing similar problems. in these efforts, the support of the european parliament will certainly matter very much. i would like to make two further comments: to jean marie beaupuy, the task force for northern ireland has been established to enhance and facilitate the participation of the people of northern ireland in all european union policies and also to better coordinate and to build more coherence between different processes contributing to the consolidation of the peace and reconciliation process. the second comment is that in these efforts the commission would also like to help people in northern ireland to reduce the existing dependency on the public sector, on state aid and on the reliance of support coming in the form of grants. the conference which was mentioned by bairbre de brún was also exactly aiming at contributing to this process of bringing more private investment – a more vibrant private sector – to life in this part of the island. once again, thank you very much for all your comments.
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, gabhaim buíochas leo siúd a labhair sa díospóireacht anocht. d’éist mé go cúramach leo agus leis na pointí a luaigh siad. tá díoma orm fosta faoin mhéid a dúirt an tuasal allister agus ní aontaím lena líomhaintí. ba mhaith liom obair pharlaimint na heorpa agus an choimisiúin thar na blianta ó thaobh na gclár peace a mholadh. ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil go háirithe leis an choimisinéir hübner as an tiomantas pearsanta a thaispeáin sí ón chéad lá di sa phost agus lena cuairteanna rialta ar thuaisceart éireann. is iad coimisinéir hübner agus na coimisinéirí a chuaigh roimpi cairde buana phróiseas síochána na héireann agus leoga is maith an rud ról leanúnach an choimisiúin a fheiceáil tríd an tascfhórsa a bhunaigh an tuachtarán barroso. thug peace ar phobal teorann a bhí scartha ó am na críochdheighilte teacht ar an phobal coiteann arís. tharraing sé an t-aos óg náisiúnach agus aontachtach le chéile chun foghlaim faoi chultúr a chéile. aithnímid go háirithe ról tábhachtach na mban i dtógáil síochána agus an obair thábhachtach, luachmhar trasphobail agus trasteorann. aithnímid gur féidir ceachtanna a fhoghlaim agus a úsáid i dtíortha eile. tugann mo thuarascáil chun suntais gurb iad na daoine is imeallaí sa todhchaí a bhain an tairbhe is mó as peace, go díreach mar ba chóir dó a bheith. ach, ag an am céanna, má tá grúpaí ann nár thapaigh an deis chun iarratas a chur isteach faoi peace i nó peace ii, ba chóir iad a spreagadh chun páirt a ghlacadh ann anois. is í an chéad chéim eile nach mór a chinntiú nach gcríochnaíonn obair mhaith peace agus gur féidir le glúine amach anseo leanúint leo chun tairbhe a bhaint as an obair luachmhar a thosaigh trí na cláir peace agus trí thacaíocht iontach ó institiúidí na heorpa.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, in the committee on legal affairs we agree with you, commissioner: let us get rid of these 27 mini-markets; but, in order to do that, you need a much more common legal framework. i think our starting point that would help us get there is if we saw all elements of the commission who are involved with the internal market working also coherently together. the one issue that has long interested us, and we felt that perhaps there was not sufficient mention of, was the contract law project and the common frame of reference. we do not want to feel that this is being forgotten and everybody is moving on to the next thing which we support you in, in terms of collective redress, but let us also devote our efforts still towards the common frame of reference. we would like to have seen more emphasis on adr forms of redress, particularly in the on-line world which is something we, as a committee, have long supported. with collective redress, yes, we are happy that you look at it and we go forward in that area, but please do not let us end up where we have with contract law, bedevilled with questions over legal base and other issues.
mr president, i want to thank lasse lehtinen for a very comprehensive report, which contains an enormous amount of extremely significant ideas. as the commissioner said earlier, to enable consumers to become better informed and more confident and to exercise that critical choice, we want innovative and safe products and services. all of those things will come from support for consumers and enhancing their rights. i say this to lasse particularly because i am disappointed that he has allowed all this good work to be overshadowed by one single issue. the problem with this issue about collective redress is that our colleagues in the socialist group seem to have already jumped to a conclusion that they want some new european legislation. i was delighted to hear you confirm, commissioner, that you have two studies – not just one – looking at this issue in depth. we on this side of the house want to await the report before we jump to conclusions, but it appears that our colleagues on the socialist side think that this is already a great thing and that, because we do not support it, we are some anti-consumer. you only have to read some of the press releases – the colourful releases, the red-coloured releases – that have come out on that side of the house. i just want to reject emphatically the fact that this side of the house is against consumer rights because we are not committing an advance to a proposal for which we do not even have the information. i say this to all our colleagues here: wrapping yourself in red tape and potentially adding great cost to consumers is not pro-consumer. let us wait and see the conclusions. i say to alexander lambsdorff that he has allowed himself to be hijacked by this, but all he has to do tomorrow for us to unanimously support lasse lehtinen’s report, is to vote for our amendments 5 and 6, which keep the door firmly open. we will wait for mrs kuneva’s report and we will look at it and study it with an open mind, but, in the mean time, we will continue to be the great champions for consumers in the internal markets, for their effective rights that will be delivered by the existing legislation we have at the moment.
mr president, if the lisbon strategy is beginning to work, why has part-time work risen from 16.2% to 18.1% over the last few years? why has the share of people with involuntary fixed-term contracts and no long-term security reached over 6.5%? the rapporteur admits that eu unemployment reached 8.9% in 2005. it is due to fall to 7.1% this year, but will it? in the uk, unemployment is only about 5.8%. combating unemployment does not need a policy. it needs a shot in the arm. talking of which, was the hypodermic system invented by a commission or a parliament or a committee? no, it was not. someone had a bright idea, and good ideas always spread. for good ideas, read best practice, and best practices are for sharing. look at the uk’s superior employment figures noted just now. they are better because our best practices include maintaining our opt-outs from the useless working time directive and not taking the euro but continuing to trade worldwide outside the eu more than any other member state. there is my shot in the arm. will you take it?
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the other groups for their cooperation, particularly some of the shadows. i believe that working together we have achieved a good report. i have looked in this report at the transposition and implementation of the current directives, in other words the employment directive and the race directive. i have concentrated more on the employment directive, because race was covered by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in a very good report last year. transposition and implementation is patchy across the eu, especially with the employment directive, although there are problems with the race directive as well. there is also a lack of information given to citizens about possible remedies in case of discrimination. the commission, member states, trade unions, as well as governmental and non-governmental stakeholders, must do all in their power to improve awareness of rights under these directives and member states must adequately resource independent bodies to promote equality and encourage member states to ensure the remit of those bodies covers all forms of discrimination. too often the individual victims of discrimination are the ones who are left to challenge discrimination on their own, without the back-up of advocacy support or indeed the legal wherewithal to take legal proceedings, and that has to change. member states should ensure that victims of discrimination are automatically assured and assisted in legal proceedings. although i welcome the statistics that the commission has already gathered on discrimination, i believe we need more data and a common standard for collecting that data. i welcome the commission’s interest in multiple discrimination and that is one of the reasons why i call in my report for comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation. we must get away from the piecemeal approach. there can be no hierarchy of discrimination. a new directive must cover discrimination and access to goods and services on all grounds that have not been covered as yet under article 13 legislation. it should cover disability, age, religion or belief and sexual orientation. race and gender are already covered, as is employment. i regret that although commissioner špidla has committed himself to this and the commission made the commitment to a horizontal directive in its work programme for 2008 – and i commend commissioner špidla particularly for this – there appears to be some backtracking on this within the commission. can the commission tell us at what stage are the impact assessments, what they cover, and when they will be released? as i understand it, they are now saying that they might only bring forward legislation on disability and nothing else. that is not acceptable, hence our amendment. i have campaigned for years for article 13 legislation on grounds of disability and on grounds of age, but i am now convinced that we must not leave anyone behind. anti-discrimination and human rights are the basis of the european union and every eu citizen must be treated equally. i urge you to vote for my report and more importantly for a comprehensive directive on anti-discrimination so we can give a signal to those in the commission who do not agree with this, and the member states, that we are committed as a parliament at least to ending discrimination once and for all, and end the ridiculous idea that it is alright to discriminate against any one section of our society. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we too welcome the lynne report and fully support the commitment to a comprehensive directive and see this as part of the cultural shift that mrs bauer referred to. but we can hear the eggshells cracking as the commission tries to edge forward on this and we urge the commission to be really brave and really lead on this issue. for us we think it is important to have comprehensive legislation. for example, it would remove some of the loopholes by which racists and xenophobes try and exploit religious discrimination in order to cover their racist attitudes. it is important that we get rid of some of those arbitrary cut-off points, for screening and health care for example, on grounds of age rather than evidence-based. and we can fully support the rapporteur in her desire for a proactive approach in people being made aware of their rights and being able to access them. through the need for effective legal aid and strong independent bodies. we therefore welcome this report and support it in its current form.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, léiríonn tuarascáil liz lynne an géarghá atá ann do chreatlach reachtach chuimsitheach a chuirfidh cosc ar idirdhealú taobh amuigh de shaol na hoibre agus a gcuimseofar réimse leathan ábhar inti. déantar idirdhealú ar roinnt milliúin duine – daoine scothaosta agus grúpaí eile nach iad – gach lá san aontas eorpach agus iad ag iarraidh teacht ar sheirbhísí sláinte, oideachais agus iompair nó ag iarraidh árachas a cheannach nó airgead a fháil ar iasacht. bhí deacrachtaí ag na grúpaí céanna ó thaobh fostaíochta de roimh theacht isteach reachtaíochta láidre ag leibhéal eorpach. ba reachtaíocht láidir ag leibhéal an aontais eorpaigh a d’athraigh meon na bhfostóirí. ba threoir eorpach a thug ar rialtais na mballstát cur go tréan in aghaidh an idirdhealaithe san fhostaíocht – cé go bhfuil a lán dul chun cinn le déanamh go fóill. caithfear tabhairt faoi reachtaíocht chuimsitheach ag leibhéal an aontais anois chun cearta na ndaoine sin a láidriú maidir le hearraí agus seirbhísí. molaim an rapóirtéir as ucht a tuarascála agus iarraim ar mo chomhfheisirí vótáil in aghaidh leasuithe a laghdódh cosaint chearta na ndaoine.
mr president, for the past nine years i have sat in the committee on employment and social affairs alongside my most distinguished uk west midlands colleague, the current rapporteur elizabeth lynne. almost without exception we have found ourselves in agreement on pretty well every issue without any need to negotiate compromise amendments because we already had a close meeting of minds. i suppose to any rule there has to be an exception and to my intense surprise, this report is just that. it is frankly most disappointing that in our view political posturing seems to have got in the way of addressing the real problem. may i say straight away, before some others on the left get up to their usual distortions, that all of us on the centre-right abhor discrimination in all its forms. all of us on the centre-right want to find practical ways of helping to stamp it out, and indeed would support, in principle, a specific directive to help people with disabilities as currently being considered by the commission. but we are very clear that a ‘comprehensive and broad’ eu directive against discrimination which is essentially an open-ended invitation to the commission to produce yet more ‘one-size fits all’ eu legislation in what is a very sensitive area will do little to address current difficulties and could even be counterproductive. we have tabled our own amendments to reinforce this point. whilst some aspects of ongoing discrimination may indeed still be a problem, to suggest that more general eu legislation is somehow a solution is, in our view, way off the mark. existing eu laws on discrimination continue to prove difficult to implement in practice. there needs to be better implementation of existing laws and better understanding of the problems in implementation before we go down the road of yet more eu directives. as one uk organisation put it most succinctly last week, most discrimination is not going to be solved by extra legislation. time would be much better spent on multicultural, multifaith events that change perceptions. we agree with this. may i thank the commission for his thoughtful opening remarks and say how much we look forward to the commission response in due course.
mr president, i think philip bushill-matthews’ criticism underlines just how good elizabeth lynne’s report is! i think she is to be congratulated. she has done a very good job of underlining the poor level of implementation and transposition of the two directives adopted back in the year 2000 on risk and discrimination in employment. but back then, commissioner, you and the committee on employment and social affairs here recognised that discrimination does not stop at the office or factory wall. we recognised then the need to act more broadly to introduce a horizontal directive to combat all forms of discrimination throughout the whole of society. you publicly stated that you supported that idea; your president, president barroso, publicly committed himself to such a horizontal directive. we are therefore very disturbed to hear that back-pedalling is going on inside the commission, reconsideration, perhaps a focus only on disability. i am hearing that three possible options are being considered in the commission at the moment: the horizontal directive, which is still alive; secondly, a specific directive on disability or, the third possibility, a directive on disability and one other form of discrimination. where the logic is in that final option i just do not know. we need a strong advocate right now, commissioner, for that horizontal directive that you committed yourself to. as elizabeth lynne said, there can be no hierarchy of forms of discrimination within the european union. all european union citizens are equal and need to be dealt with as such. we cannot tolerate any discrimination on any grounds against any section of our community. i heard it said at a meeting last week in brussels, and you hinted at it yourself today, commissioner, and philip bushill-matthews did so just now, that we should not act because infringement proceedings have been launched against a number of member states for failure to comply with the earlier directives. we cannot take that line of argument. we cannot allow member states to force us to act at the speed of the slowest in terms of implementation and then enforcement. you, commissioner, have the right of initiative. you need to exercise that right. we need to act rigorously. you need to act rigorously to ensure full compliance and not allow member states to enter into a conspiracy that would cause us to move at the speed of the slowest. we also need to focus clear attention on the need for remedies and enforcement, strong remedies to make sure that member states do indeed comply fully with those directives agreed back in the year 2000. i fully commend elizabeth lynne’s report.
mr president, when i was this parliament’s co-rapporteur for the race directive in 2000, the then portuguese presidency promised us there would be no hierarchy of discrimination and that further legislation would follow. on 26 october 2004 president barroso promised in this parliament and during this commission’s term of office a framework directive on – i quote – ‘all forms of discrimination’. that promise was repeated in their annual policy strategy for 2008. now is the time to deliver. i would say that it is no excuse that member states in some cases deliberately drag their feet on implementation of employment non-discrimination, but it is an excuse, and the commission must not allow the slowest to dictate the speed of the rest. two weeks ago i met with federal minister zypries in germany and minister follett in britain. they are willing to talk. give them something to talk about! i am proud that we collected 1.3 million signatures for disability legislation. but as this parliament’s president of the disability intergroup, i place on record my support for a horizontal directive. you will not divide and rule. finally, it is no good for the conservatives to say that they abhor discrimination on the grounds of religion, age or sexual orientation, but then to vote against legislation on these grounds, denying equal rights to europeans, gay, young and old and to religious minorities. and business europe should be ashamed of saying in its submission to the commission consultation dated 12 october 2007, i quote: ‘business europe believes there is no evidence of discrimination on any of the grounds covered by article 13’. the commission’s own business test panel showed 89% of the 293 companies surveyed said they wanted eu legislation for equal protection. they want it; parliament will vote for it; europe needs it. (applause from the centre and left)
mr president, when the rapporteur spoke she said that every eu citizen must be treated equally. sadly, the rapporteur herself seems not to believe that. if she did, then this report would cry out against the fact that this eu, through a derogation, authorises discrimination on religious grounds in my constituency of northern ireland; specifically discrimination against protestants who want to join the police service in northern ireland. yes, in this eu there is express religious discrimination, sanctioned in that way. so when i listen to the high-sounding affirmations against discrimination i think of many young protestant constituents who wanted to join the police, scored higher than roman catholic applicants, but who saw those people appointed over their heads because discrimination is statutory, provided for in legislation. so, until we get horizontal application against discrimination... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, my congratulations to mrs lynne on this directive because, in the european year of intercultural dialogue, which aims to promote mutual understanding and celebrate europe’s diversity, i am shocked and dismayed at the levels of existing discrimination – not just in race but in disabilities, gender, sexual orientation and ageing. discrimination is not just a problem in the labour market but also in housing, education, public and private services and even in religious matters. i am particularly concerned about the difference in levels of integration of minorities within various member states as indicated by the migrant policy index. this shows the failure of the implementation and enforcement of the minimum standards in anti-discrimination that we have sought to make eu-wide. i call upon the commission to take up this matter, not just with the member states, but also to take stronger action within the eu institutions. finally, prior to the european elections, i would like to ask how this house is trying to set an example to the rest of europe on anti-discrimination. still only 30% of the meps are women and only 9 meps are non-white.
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to thank colleagues very much for their remarks. i am delighted that we appear to have the support of the majority of this house for a comprehensive directive. i hope the vote later today will prove that. i would also like to pay tribute again to commissioner špidla because i know it was his actual initiative to bring forward a comprehensive directive and call for the comprehensive directive within the work programme. i am only sorry that his view does not seem to be winning the argument with the rest of the commission. and let us hope that, by passing the call for a comprehensive directive, we will give more power to him to actually argue the case. i did ask commissioner špidla for the impact assessments to be released. i know they have been done already. i am a little fearful since i have heard reports that there have been different impact assessments and those are being changed slightly as we speak to favour one view in the commission rather than another. i would like some sort of clarification on that to see if the rumours that i have heard are true. i am very pleased that other members have supported your call within the work programme for that comprehensive directive. specific issues relating to all the areas – disability, age, religion or belief, and sexual orientation – can, i believe, be covered in one comprehensive directive. education is not the way forward. we have tried that. for those members who have been talking about education: it does not work. we are talking as well about access to goods and services, not about employment. i know that all of the german delegations have problems with that because the employment directive has been gold-plated by the german government. so leave that one aside. there are different member states who have different problems: disability, age, sexual orientation, religion or belief. some member states cover some of them, others cover others and that is why it is important to get it right and have a comprehensive directive and not leave anyone behind.
madam president, i represent scotland, one of europe’s primary maritime nations. the eu has some 68 000 km of coastline; scotland has some 11 000 km of that. so, in terms of maritime interests, scotland is at the heart of europe. we have much to gain and much to contribute to a maritime strategy and policy. we have waters rich in minerals, energy and biological resources and we are ideally located as a maritime hub for europe and the wider world. maritime nations will have their own priorities in terms of strategy and policy for the resource which is their sea. any eu policy should assist maritime nations in achieving their objectives such as by funding research, by facilitating development of new routes for transporting goods and passengers, supporting energy interconnectors, improving safety on vessels and energy efficiency. can i quote from article 34 of the piecyk report, which says ‘the integrated maritime policy for the european union should be developed in such a way as to avoid failings in the cfp such as over-centralisation’? in other words: add value and not take over as an excuse of competence.
madam president, my constituency of south-east england includes over half the coastline of the english channel, a name that that stretch of water has held for centuries. yet the latest maps on the arc manche region change the name of the english channel to the ‘greater north sea’ and call the bristol channel the ‘celtic sea’. on whose authority have nautical miles suddenly become kilometres on those maps? now, you may think that these things are little things, but not where i come from. the commission has failed completely to understand the impact of such gratuitous and absurd nonsense on an island nation, and they are hurrying the day when the uk walks away from the eu and takes its gbp 1.5 million-an-hour club subscription with it.
mr president, we now have maritime day, we have an integrated maritime policy, we have dg mare. we have certainly come a long way and i think we owe the congratulations of this house to the commissioner, but also to willi piecyk, for the hard work and efforts that they have all contributed towards achieving this objective. europe’s maritime interests affect the lives and occupations of millions of our citizens. 90% of our external trade and 40% of our internal trade passes through our european ports. globalisation means that this is bound to grow. if you take into account all of our coastal and outermost regions, we have got over 320 000 km of coastline, home to a third of our eu total population. marine-based industries and services and the other activities of these coastal regions account for 40% of our gdp. but we rely on our maritime resources for more than trade: our seas are a source of food, energy, minerals and recreation. the sea is also an important climate regulator and we have already seen the results of climate change on fish stocks. at a time of growing demand for healthy marine protein, fish stocks continue to decline. we now have to rely on imports from outside the eu for more than 50% of the fish we consume. critics always try to blame the fishermen for over-exploitation of our marine resources, but global warming, environmental pollution and many other factors have also played a part. if we are to realise the full potential of europe’s maritime interests and to realise the vision of clean, healthy, safe, productive and biologically diverse oceans and seas, then we have to implement a management plan that aims for sustainability in every area, and the way to do that is devolve more management responsibility to our regional advisory councils.
madam president, i am pleased today that we can see the importance of a joined-up approach to maritime policy. the links between shipping, climate change and tackling pollution are essential if we are to preserve the common resource of our seas and oceans. however, i hope that next year we can make more of 20 may and i think there is an opportunity next year with the 2009 european elections for every candidate in those elections to use 20 may to highlight the importance of our seas and oceans and coastal communities.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, our group had intended to ask for three additional roll calls but, for whatever reason, they got lost in transit. i would like, through you, mr president – i have checked with the secretariat that it was in order to ask today – to have these three instated. they are on: paragraph 2, amendment 4d; paragraph 6 of the original text; and finally, after paragraph 36, our amendment 12. i hope you will appreciate that this is a very sensitive dossier and we would like to be able to place on record not just what we are against, but also what we are in favour of.
mr president, very briefly, i of course support your discretion in interpreting the rules, but it seems very strange for the ppe-de group to want to introduce roll-call votes at the last moment after the deadline has expired because they say that they want to positively explain their case, when their amendments seek to delete – to delete – paragraphs from this report. i think that they are trying to cover up the cracks in their own group rather than actually say anything positive in combating discrimination.
mr president, first of all i have to apologise to the house; as shadow rapporteur, i was unable to be here yesterday evening because my flight was not on time. so i apologise for that. mr president, much has been written about the northern ireland peace process and this is another non-legislative report. the question is, did it do any good? yes it did. it meant that many small groups in northern ireland, especially women’s groups, were able to get off the ground and were able to provide for their areas. was it fair in distribution? the answer is, no, it was not. at the beginning peace i was certainly not fair; peace ii was better, and i certainly look forward to peace iii being another improvement. unionist communities are not getting their fair share. greater care must be taken to ensure that the cross-border bodies that are in place respect the balance in the region. there is no point in their existence if they do not. a glaring example of this is icban, a cross-border body which in my opinion should not receive any more funding until they rectify the position. i would like to pay tribute, mr president, to the many people since the beginning of the peace programme who have given their time voluntarily to work for the greater good of all, and i trust that northern ireland will go forward and prosper. the people deserve no less, and i warn against the sinister forces that are still around in the region.
in writing. − i endorse the codification of legislation relating to cultural objects unlawfully removed from member states. the existing legislation has been modified a number of times and it is important that we have a clear legal framework within which member states can secure the return of stolen cultural property. i also believe that cultural objects should be returned to local communities within member states when there is clear local support for such an initiative. within this context i fully support, for example, the return of the lewis chessmen to a location in the western isles of scotland and, likewise, the st ninian’s isle treasure to shetland.
in writing. − i have voted against this report because as someone who has argued from the very outset against subsidies for tobacco production, i believe that it would be devastating to extend the phasing out of tobacco subsidies from 2009 to 2012. i support the european commission's proposal which indicates there is no justification for tobacco subsidies to continue to be linked to tobacco production. i believe that the parliament's report which tries to reopen the debate about phasing out of subsidies by 2009 is totally unacceptable. i see no logical reason to continue supporting tobacco production particularly due to the negative consequences tobacco has on health and healthcare costs.
in writing. − i voted against the berlato report on the community tobacco fund. the eu, in harmony with numerous member states, has sought to reduce tobacco use by measures such as the ban on tobacco advertising. it is therefore rank hypocrisy for the eu to continue to fund tobacco growers within europe.
in writing. − sergia belato’s report on the community tobacco fund seeks to reopen the debate on extending tobacco subsidies until 2012. there is no justification for tobacco subsidies to be given to farmers from both a public health and economic perspective, therefore their extension is simply not necessary. indeed, given the eu's stance on tobacco, i find the proposals contained in the report to be not only hypocritical but immoral. i therefore could not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − you will be aware that over many years this parliament has been very vocal in its efforts to highlight the dangers to health of smoking tobacco. yet through all that time the european union has given millions of euros in support to farmers for growing that very same product. it really is hypocritical in the extreme to carry on such a policy. the report from the committee on agriculture tries to reopen the debate on extending tobacco subsidies until 2012. yet the commission proposal, that the report was allegedly drawn up in response to, is about extending the financing of the community tobacco fund, which as we know is used to warn of the dangers of smoking tobacco. what was attempted here by the agriculture committee was a sleight of hand that would have done any top-class magician proud, but thankfully this has been spotted and hopefully exposed for what it really is; namely an attempt to extend subsidies to tobacco farmers. this has to be resisted by this parliament on moral, economic and health grounds. the commission's position is clear. there is no justification for tobacco subsidies linked to production. it is now high time parliament adopted the same line by rejecting the agriculture committee stance on this issue. that is why i shall vote against.
in writing. − over half a million eu citizens die every year due to tobacco addiction. not a penny of eu taxpayers’ money should go on the community tobacco fund. the community tobacco fund should cease to exist.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the de brún report on the peace programme which rightly highlights the importance of local empowerment in the peace-building process. the peace programmes have made a valuable contribution to the peace process in ireland and efforts to build upon this in the future are to be welcomed.
in writing. − i am pleased to support the peace programme and hope it will continue to help communities at a grass-root level.
in writing. − i welcome mr graefe zu baringdorf’s report on the proposal for a regulation concerning meat and livestock statistics. the regulation aims to simplify existing legislation in this area. i voted in support of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the van lancker report dealing with member states' employment policies. the report correctly emphasises the need for member states to implement guidelines in a way which seeks to combat discrimination whether it is based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, or sexual orientation. the report also calls for member states to recognise national traditions in implementing employment policy. i consider that the recognition of europe's diverse traditions should be at the heart of all eu policy.
in writing. − i salute the rapporteur’s move to strengthen the social dimension of the lisbon strategy. the call for the introduction of a balanced approach to ‘flexicurity’ and the introduction of a clause on active inclusion, i feel, will strengthen employment policy across europe. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this report sets some important guidelines in the budgetary process of the 2009 budget and, overall, we strongly agree with the rapporteur's determination to continue to respect the voluntarily imposed 20% ceiling on parliamentary expenditure. 2009 will be a year that will bring much change to the way the parliament works and we believe that, in order to maintain this discipline, it will be necessary to closely scrutinise all spending proposals to ensure that they deliver value for money to the taxpayer. in particular we make no apology for reminding the parliament that the biggest single saving they could make would be to abandon the two seat working of the parliament. we also strongly support the rapporteur's proposals to provide the means for the removal of asbestos from the strasbourg parliament buildings. british conservatives look forward to receiving the rapporteur's further thoughts in due course, and therefore have abstained on the final vote on this report.
in writing. − i welcome jens holm’s report on trade in raw materials and commodities. free and fair access to raw materials is important for the eu economy. nevertheless, the implications of price volatility in raw materials and commodities for developing countries also need to be taken into account. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted against the lehtinen report on the consumer policy strategy because, whilst there was much in the report with which i could agree, i fundamentally reject the call for enhanced liberalisation of services. it is true that certain services can benefit from a liberalised economic environment and the freedom of movement for services is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the eu. however i consider that public services should be run for the benefit of the communities and individuals they serve and not for private profit. services in areas such as health, education and lifeline transport links should remain publicly owned, publicly accountable and the responsibility of member states.
in writing. − lasse lehtinen’s report on the eu consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 reiterates the need to empower eu consumers and enhance their welfare and protection across the union. my vote reflects the need for improved consumer protection across the eu.
in writing. − conservative meps abhor discrimination in all its forms: we have tabled our own amendments to this report to make this crystal clear. but while some aspects of ongoing discrimination may still be a problem, to suggest that more eu legislation is somehow the solution is way off the mark. the uk already has a full body of law regarding discrimination, which continues to prove difficult to implement in practice. there needs to be better implementation of existing laws, and better understanding of the problems in their implementation, before we go down the road of yet more eu directives. this report, an own-initiative resolution calling for yet another ‘comprehensive and broad’ eu directive against discrimination, is at best political posturing and at worst an open-ended invitation to the commission to produce yet more and more one-size-fits-all eu legislation in a very sensitive area. as one uk chamber of commerce member succinctly put it, ‘most discrimination is not going to be solved by extra legislation. time would be much better spent on multi-cultural, multi-faith events to change perceptions’. we agree.
in writing. − i welcome elizabeth lynne’s report entitled ‘progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the eu’. i believe that we should not be aiming to promote a hierarchy of discrimination in the eu. colleagues in the conservative party obviously feel differently and i would defy them to find an explanation for a position that i find fundamentally indefensible. we need a horizontal article 13 directive and i voted in favour of ms lynne’s report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the piecyk report on the eu's maritime policy. i particularly welcome the section which recognises that the cfp has been an unmitigated disaster and that the eu must learn from its failures in delivering an integrated maritime policy. my own country, scotland, is at the very heart of europe in maritime affairs and we can benefit from an eu-wide policy which covers areas as diverse as the environment, transport, tourism and employment. however, recognition must be had for the diversity of europe's maritime areas and decisions must not be taken on the "one-size-fits-all" basis which has come to represent europe's failed fisheries policy.
in writing. − our seas are our common resource. we need a coordinated approach against the exploitation and pollution of our seas. we can only do this by working across eu countries which have an interest in maritime policy. i hope that next year more eu citizens will be able to participate in the european maritime day. perhaps, as next year this day will fall during the european elections, all candidates will use 20 may to highlight maritime policy issues.
author. − mr president, the clear objective of this oral question is to get action and redress for the thousands of small businesses across the eu which are being defrauded daily out of millions of euros by sham european ‘directory companies’. this parliament has received hundreds of petitions and a mass of correspondence to our constituency offices from businesses who have fallen victim to these prolific scams against small businesses. we must, of course, recognise that these scams have been in existence for over 40 years, according to the legitimate directory publishers represented by the eadp. but this is without doubt a scam which requires a european response. as an example, the structure of the maiwolf holding company, which owns the european city guide and other such companies, is a complex web of european scam companies registered, operating and domiciled in several member states of the eu and in the eea countries switzerland and liechtenstein. despite legal action and fines issued by courts in several member states, it continues to operate, making a mockery of eu cooperation on law enforcement. indeed it took seven years through the courts for the company to be shut down in barcelona, only for it to immediately restart trading in valencia. maiwolf holding is a hub of a web of companies operating scams not just at eu level but at global level and continuing – i am afraid – to escape the long arm of the law. by responding to the european city guide, businesses were led to believe that they were simply responding to an information request or updating or correcting their data. they were led to believe it was a free service, and then suddenly they found themselves slapped with an invoice for thousands of euros which, if mentioned at all, had only appeared in very fine print in a confusing and misleading manner. the same maiwolf holding company apparently also owns the debt collection companies which then proceed to harass, bully and threaten businesses to pay up. a website, ‘stop the european city guide’, that campaigns against the city guide fraud, was also subject to legal threats and their isp had to shut them down, although i am pleased to say that they are currently up and running again. many of the activities of this fraudulent company are clearly in breach of the misleading advertising directive of 1984. we need better and more coordinated enforcement to close the loopholes or gaps which are exploited by such companies. i can inform the presidency that my committee will review the implementation and transposition of the misleading advertising directive and, of course, the new unfair commercial practices directive. we are particularly interested in the example of austria’s transposition of the misleading advertising directive whereby businesses cannot be bound by a contract unless they have clearly and explicitly signed up to its terms and conditions. this is a model, presidency, which i hope you will follow in discussions with the other member states. small businesses, of course, are not helped by the unfair commercial practices directive as it does not cover business-to-business transactions – even for small businesses. member states must make better use of the cross-border enforcement network to put these cowboy businesses out of business and out of operation once and for all. i certainly share with my colleagues here the sense of frustration of the many small businesses who for years, not months, have continued to suffer harassment and financial loss. if we believe, as we say we do, that small businesses are the backbone of the eu economy, then it is time to stand up for them, to defend their rights and to defend them against these fraudulent practices. i certainly welcome commissioner kuneva’s interest and her commitment to monitoring their activities, but monitoring alone does not get results and does not actively target these companies. it is unacceptable, i believe, that the business complaints have fallen on apparently deaf ears and that the sole trader behind the city guide has been allowed to continue to peddle his fraudulent practices without facing the full force of european law. so i am calling today on the member states to urgently take action, to recognise the serious and damaging consequences of allowing this fraudster to continue to rip off our businesses. i want the member states, and indeed the presidency, today during our debate, to commit to taking action, not just to debate the issues we have known about for many years. so i urge the presidency to answer these questions and to work together with us to find a resolution for the businesses who continue to suffer from this fraud.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, many thanks to mrs mccarthy and the internal market committee for presenting this question. i could wish that we had had a rather more robust answer from the council, i have to say. the situation is absolutely unacceptable and i am going to start by making a confession. in the early 1980s, i was a lawyer in the uk, but i founded a practice with a lawyer in germany. we started getting these demands that we had advertised our practice in a european city guide and, even as a lawyers, we felt harassed and frightened. so if lawyers feel frightened by these people, i am sure ordinary small smes must. but the oddity of this is that eu law ought to be able to provide an answer and it is seemingly failing to do so, even after 20, 30 years that this has been going on. indeed, if you read some of the letters from these people, they are even quoting eu law back at people to harass them even further as victims. and what do we get from the council? i am sorry, it is not good enough: well, we might look at misleading advertising and we will think about it. thirty years on we really need something more. what are people meant to do? we need a thoroughgoing debate about whether we should redefine who and what is a consumer. we tried to raise it during the discussions on contract law. we need to go further and deeper if we are going to deal with this problem. lastly, if the member states are too timid or too frightened to deal with this, let me make another suggestion that perhaps is a little contentious here. if the commission gives us a substantial system of collective redress, let us call it class actions, then maybe citizens will be able to take action themselves if nobody else will do it for them. now there is a thought.
mr president, i want to get straight to the point. let me address this to the slovenian presidency; i think they have been great in their presidency. minister lenarčič, just let me give you four things that i would like you to bring up at your next meeting of the competitiveness ministers. the first thing, is for you to ask the commission to take the solvit mechanism – which is supposed to deal with every single internal market complaint, not just market-related ones – and put this firmly on the agenda. get them to circulate the information that is already available on independent websites – and we should be ashamed of the fact that it is actually the people affected by this who have taken this up on their own – there is a lot of comprehensive information, and make that part of their remit. that could happen straight away. so that is your first task. the second task is that you should be saying to all your colleagues that their business information services (because they have services that reach out to smes) should also be circulating that information to them in their own languages and you should be putting just a modest amount of your budget behind to actually explain to businesses what is going on. thirdly, give those to your law enforcement authorities. and, also say to the commission and to the people who are running your consumer protection cooperation: put this on your agenda. it will not take very much to do. the information is there. it is not a difficult thing to do. so that is three things you should do. and the fourth thing you could do as well is to say to your colleagues this: these practices, if practised on individual consumers are absolutely illegal under the unfair commercial practices directive. everybody knows that is the case. and the companies affected are essentially taking on the role of private consumers. but, in individual member states, in your process of implementing that (and i have to say by the way the member states have not done very well in implementing it, and even my own member state is actually well behind), you could easily include a clause specifically including directories and small businesses in your implementation. it would not take much to do. so there are four specific actions there. so i look to you, minister, and we will look at the agenda, and we expect it to be on the next agenda of the competitiveness council. how can we go round saying to small businesses, ‘participate in the internal market’, if we cannot even give them the simplest of safeguards on a simple act like this? it is a disgraceful neglect by all of us of our duties in the single market.
mr president, the european city guide and the similar guides are essentially a bunch of crooks, but our legislation has not been good enough to enable us to deal with them. this question should equally have been asked of the commission in terms of initiating a new legislative proposal to tighten up the relevant legislation so that we can deal with them, but pending that my advice to any small business faced with demands from european city guide and similar guides is simple: do not pay; ignore them; ignore the pressure. an organisation has been set up called ‘stop the european city guide’, an association of victims of this guide. their website had to be removed because of pressure and legal threats against their internet service provider to make them shut down their website. i now therefore host their website on my website so that they can continue to disseminate information as to how businesses can protect themselves. we need firm action on this. we need it soon.
mr president, i just want to echo my colleagues. we have to stop passing the buck on this issue. we must stop allowing these companies to ‘catch me if you can’. that is the game they are playing with this. i am not leaving the plenary, minister, without some commitment to action. mr harbour gave you some ideas, but what i want you to do is to raise specific things that i did actually raise in my intervention at the beginning. i want you to raise at the council working group the austrian model where, under the misleading advertising directive, they already ban these practices. not all member states do it. you could ask other member states to follow suit, take the austrian model and ban these practices by introducing amendments in their national legislation. i also want you to ask the council to agree that we have cross-border enforcement networks for consumers. i want you to instruct them to accept, investigate and act on the directory companies in the context of the cross-border enforcement network. that, i believe, will enable us to have some action across the border and to stop these people escaping the long arm of the law. so, please, if i could have that from you, i think we can all go away somewhat happier.
, in writing. – the 'european cities guide' and similar outfits are fraudulent operations which specifically target smes. they urge companies to sign up to directory services which are presented as being free of charge. however, due to dubious and complex 'fine print', theses schemes then proceed to harass people for money in an extremely threatening and malicious manner. ironically, these fraudulent companies quote eu law in order to intimidate their targets further. of course, these scams represent no value whatsoever to the consumer or businesses. in fact, they flout numerous examples of eu legislation, such as the 1984 directive on misleading advertising. this problem is evident in countries throughout the eu and therefore requires urgent action. the solution lies in eu level cooperation, namely in the form of some tough legislation. we must ensure that any eu directive tackling this issue contains no loopholes and that it is satisfactorily implemented in all member states. i call on the council and commission to assist the work of parliament and take action which reflects the urgency of this situation. if we are encouraging our smes to compete within the single market, we must at least be able to guarantee their protection against these appalling scams.
mr president, you wait for one report on buses and trucks and three come along at once. the question is, are they all travelling in the right direction? on cabotage: i am one of the strongest supporters in this parliament of liberalisation, and indeed in general on the issue of cabotage. but, of course, i want to be absolutely certain that we do have a genuine level playing field for this to operate. we have different vehicle and road safety standards in the uk, we have a geographical seclusion, we have a particular tax system which is different to some others, and there are employment concerns: these are issues also to take into account. so, whilst i think there is a lot of clarity in the commission proposal and i welcome it, i think that we have to be very careful in the opening-up of the market in the way proposed. the overall impact of cabotage is somewhat ambiguous and i know that a lot of hauliers, people involved in the industry, are very concerned. therefore, i think we have to be sensible and balanced about this and i certainly would like to see a review of the proposal within four years of implementation with full consultation from the industry in the meantime. that is the only way i think that we can guarantee a level playing field and full liberalisation to have good effect. i would just like to add another point on another of the reports. i am concerned, for example, when the scope of regulation in europe begins to extend to the transport of the elderly by volunteers. surely the application of law to such groups is both unnecessary and unhelpful. european law should aim to always encourage mobility and access. i think that in this case, in the beautiful areas of britain such as my own constituency of yorkshire, we do not want any impediments to the enjoyment of our regions and this road transport package coupled with the drivers’ hours regulation should not lead to public transport in rural areas becoming a thing of the past.
mr president, i would like to begin by saying that i wish to speak specifically on the ţicău report. while we have a proposal that is largely unproblematic, i would like to comment on the issue of sanctions. it is important to understand that we need common sanctions, but we also need to address the issue of common enforceability. whilst i am against more red tape, we must find a system whereby drivers and their companies can be more easily prosecuted when they cause accidents in other member states. at present, such companies and their drivers are escaping prosecution for offences caused, for example, in the united kingdom, as the paperwork required to bring them to justice is currently too great. this is particularly alarming when we consider that according to my information there has been a 75% increase in road traffic accidents by drivers from other member states in parts of my constituency alone in the past five years. i regularly receive complaints from people who have been quite badly injured by commercial vehicles and their drivers and it is frustrating that our present police enforcement services are either unable or unwilling to hold these drivers to account. i therefore look forward to further developments in this area so that we can ease the path in bringing these reckless individuals to justice.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, what is happening in italy is an example of what can happen when reality collides with the utopian idealism of the european union. the idealism of the eu is that it can bring about a great, new, borderless state by means of unlimited, uncontrolled and indiscriminate immigration. the reality is that such mass and unregulated immigration brings with it massive social problems. i and my party totally condemn the violence recently seen in italy perpetrated against groups of people because of their ethnic origin. we have heard about the integration of communities into host societies, but how can that happen when the sheer numbers of immigrants do not allow it? the eu’s mission is to create a great borderless state, and this has brought about vast movements of people in europe in recent years, surely unparalleled since the fall of the roman empire. signor frattini, the new italian foreign minister, wants to bring about tougher immigration laws. this is the same signor frattini who, when he was an eu commissioner, said that europe needed at least 20 million new immigrants from africa and the third world. now that signor frattini has left the ivory towers of the eu and has a job in the real political world, he has changed his tune. the open-border policy of the eu means that no member state can control who can and cannot enter their country. in britain this has led to unbearable strains on infrastructure, public and social services and housing. it has brought about increases in disease and crime. most of the organised crime in london, my constituency, is now the province of foreign ethnic gangs. any country should be able to have a controlled immigration policy so that they can select what immigrants they want in the appropriate numbers for their needs. the appalling scenes of violence in italy are a direct result of the european union assuming control of what should be solely the province and control of nation states.
the next item is question time (b6-0156/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question no 29 by linda mcavan (h-0306/08) subject: biofuel trading practices what action is the commission taking to stop the reported biofuels trading practice that exploits us agricultural subsidies? the practice involves shipping biodiesel from europe to the us where some fuel is added, allowing traders to claim 11p a litre of us subsidy. it is then shipped back and sold below domestic prices. it is estimated that up to 10% of exports of biofuels from the us to europe are part of this rogue scheme. this is not an illegal act, but puts the european biofuel industry at risk. it also involves unnecessary shipping across the atlantic, which increases emissions of greenhouse gases. will the sustainability criteria as proposed by the commission solve this problem and make it illegal to sell biofuels on the european market that have been involved in this practice?
commissioner, i am glad you are dealing with this. i think it is a scandal and it makes a mockery of all the work we are doing on climate change. in terms of sustainability criteria, if we have a greenhouse gas savings criterion, would these kinds of biofuels not fall foul of that because it has been shipped up and down the atlantic adding greenhouse gas from shipping emissions, which are 5% of world co2 at the moment? if we have to wait for a complaint from industry and the opening of a procedure on illegal subsidies, how long will that take? my fear is that, by the time we get something done, the european industry will have gone out of business.
question no 30 by johan van hecke (h-0332/08) subject: european food aid programme for the most deprived persons in 2005, the european parliament approved a written declaration on the durability of the european food aid programme for the most deprived persons. the declaration not only advocated a permanent food aid programme plus an annual budget, but also called for it to be expanded. to ensure distribution of balanced food rations, the european parliament called for the programme to be opened up to new sectors such as pork, poultry and eggs. mariann fischer boel, european commissioner for agriculture and rural development, was tasked with following up the declaration. that fact is that, three years later, there is still no sign of a basis for a new regulation and that only modest steps have been taken. as yet, it is totally unclear what budget funding is available. food aid is very much an issue in the european union, where 16% of the population lives below the poverty line. can the commission ensure a food aid programme at european level? in the process, will it enter into a dialogue with the european ngos active in the field?
question no 31 by alain hutchinson (h-0338/08) subject: speculation and the food crisis financial speculation is a major factor behind rising prices and the world food crisis. the commodities market in particular is attracting growing interest from investment funds. is the commission prepared to accept that, for the benefit of the few, commodities such as rice or wheat are becoming the focus of speculation while, at the same time, millions of people are dying of hunger? does it intend to take practical steps to end all financial speculation which directly jeopardises the food security of millions of people? does it also intend to promote the implementation at international level of a mechanism preventing countries from restricting exports of foodstuffs of which they hold large stocks and, more generally, from pursuing all policies that have the direct result of preventing the most vulnerable from exercising their right to food? part two
question no 32 by avril doyle (h-0271/08) subject: communication and the lisbon treaty in the context of plan d and the recently announced communication 'debate europe - building on the experience of plan d for democracy, dialogue and debate', could the commission report on their communication strategy vis-à-vis the ratification process of the lisbon treaty? what concrete measures has the commission taken to ensure a smooth ratification of the lisbon treaty?
question no 33 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0301/08) subject: closer cooperation between european commission and european parliament representations the commission is seeking to increase citizens’ involvement in discussions on eu matters. at the start of april of this year, the commission announced the ‘debate europe’ initiative. the intention is to broaden further the activities carried out at eu member state level: consulting citizens, sharing information, knowledge and ideas about the eu, and providing opportunities for voters to meet eu officials. in some eu capitals, it is said that commission and european parliament representations cooperate poorly when it comes to giving eu citizens a better idea of what is happening in the eu and acquainting them with its agenda, its institutions and its member states. commission and parliament representations often work separately, duplicating each other’s activities, and do not carry out large joint projects. as the european parliament elections in 2009 approach, are efforts being made to improve cooperation between commission and parliament representations in different countries? if so, what specifically will be done?
question no 34 by stavros arnaoutakis (h-0316/08) subject: commission's plan d for dialogue, democracy and debate and 'debate europe' the commission's plan d for dialogue, democracy and debate of october 2005 was a response to the eu's 'period of reflection' following the negative outcome of the referendums on the constitution. two and a half years later, does the commission believe that it has effectively attained the objectives of its plan? if not, why not? what were the obstacles? as regards the commission's recent communication on the 'debate europe' project (april 2008) to bring citizens closer to the union and its institutions, can the commission provide details concerning eligible expenditure, the amount that will be available per member state and organisation, and the beneficiaries that will undertake the pan-european consultation projects with citizens? how will it provide a framework for cooperation among the eu's institutions and, in particular, with the european parliament? how will it contribute towards setting up electronic networks in which meps and members of national and regional parliaments will participate? how will it create european public spaces in the capitals of the member states? how will it become more active at local level?
questions 35 to 39 will receive written answers. question no 40 by manuel medina ortega (h-0268/08) subject: restrictions on competition by sporting federations given that the sporting federations of specific eu countries seek to impose rules on their members which restrict sportsmen’s and sports and women's possibilities with regard to contracts and freedom of movement, in clear violation of eu law, has the commission studied the consequences of such practices from the point of view of freedom of competition?
does the commission agree that the uefa home-grown players’ scheme is compatible with the treaty? it encourages football clubs to have a proportion of their players coming up through their junior teams and their youth academies without a link to nationality and that therefore, quite unlike the fifa scheme of 5+6 – which is based on nationality and would clearly be illegal – the uefa scheme is something that is proportionate, legitimate and will force clubs to invest in training their young players rather than just relying on their financial muscle in the international transfer market.
question no 41 by giovanna corda (h-0269/08) subject: price rises and competition major price rises have been recorded in recent months in many member states, particularly for foodstuffs, which has severely reduced the european public’s purchasing power. numerous observers have suggested that, besides the increase in the price of raw materials, there have been some excessive mark-ups by distribution channels and, moreover, possible breaches of free competition. can the commission state whether it has any permanent indicators that can alert it to an explosion in certain consumer prices, and also whether any investigations have been conducted recently into distribution channels, following the sudden price rises recorded in certain member states?
questions 35 to 39 will receive written answers. question no 44 by bernd posselt (h-0286/08) subject: accession negotiations with croatia does the commission think that the accession negotiations with croatia can be completed by the end of the year? what is the exact timetable for the rest of the year? question no 45 by brian crowley (h-0308/08) subject: progress of the accession of croatia into the european union can the european commission give a statement outlining the state of play with regard to croatia's application to accede into the european union? question no 46 by michl ebner (h-0315/08) subject: conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia since the opening of accession negotiations with croatia the country has already made substantial progress, leading to the opening of many negotiation chapters, and is well on the way to meeting the benchmarks for opening and closing further chapters. above all, there have been positive developments in connection with the alignment of croatian law with eu standards, protection for minorities and efforts to bring about judicial reform. in addition, through its recent decision not to introduce the ecological and fishing protection zone croatia has cleared the way for faster progress in the accession negotiations. these welcome developments are acknowledged in parliament's report on croatia's 2007 progress report, paragraphs 31 and 32 of which call for enhanced support for croatia from the eu, and in particular from the commission. how will the commission step up the support it provides? provided that croatia meets the relevant criteria, will the commission put forward, in autumn 2008, a provisional timetable for the conclusion of the accession negotiations in 2009?
question no 47 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0295/08) subject: progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) towards accession to the european union at a press conference held at the nato summit in brussels on 5 march 2008, the commissioner responsible for enlargement, mr rehn, stated that the failure of greece and fyrom to reach an agreement on the name of the latter would adversely affect fyrom's accession to the european union. the eu wishes to encourage the continuation of negotiations under the auspices of the un in order to find a mutually acceptable solution in the near future to the question of that country's name. what measures will the commission, therefore, take to facilitate the resumption of negotiations and find a mutually acceptable solution?
question no 48 by philip claeys (h-0298/08) subject: european funding for the turkish army in cyprus media reports allege that the eu has provided the turkish army with funding to the tune of eur 13 million. can the commission confirm that the turkish army in fact been financed out of european funds? if so, which funds and projects were involved and over how long a period? how much money did the turkish army receive in total? who took the initiative of authorising this funding? does the commission plan to continue funding the turkish army in future?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
rapporteur. − mr president, i want to begin by thanking everyone who worked on the mss decision. i say that not just as the usual courtesy, but because the decision has come to plenary this week as a first-reading agreement thanks to much support from my parliamentary colleagues and the help of the commission in supplying additional text. i would also like to give warm thanks to the slovenian presidency, who shared parliament’s determination to reach an early agreement in the interests of european competitiveness. in february 2007, member states agreed to make radio frequency bands in the 2 ghz region available for a harmonised approach to mobile satellite services in order to avoid interference and fragmentation of the internal market and open up the possibility for european mss technology to become globally competitive. the purpose of today’s mss decision is to select and authorise the operators of these pan-european mobile satellite services. in the debate and negotiation on this decision, the differences to overcome have been institutional and geographic, rather than party political. firstly, meps were concerned that in the commission’s draft proposal there were elements of the selection and authorisation process which were of a political, rather than a purely technical, nature and that it was therefore not appropriate to use comitology to decide the details. in particular, meps and ministers from member states on the periphery of the eu were very concerned that the selection criteria might favour operators who could only provide a service covering the centre of europe. meps were also concerned that the selection criteria might not reflect parliament’s frequently expressed commitment to public interest services and to the inclusion of rural and less-developed regions. these difficulties were resolved by bringing into the text detailed and transparent wording on the weighting to be given to geographic coverage, public safety and protection services and the range of services provided to consumers in rural and remote areas. particularly important was the compromise reached before the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy, stipulating that all applicants must commit to services covering at least 50% of the population and at least 60% of the aggregate land area of each member state. while this falls short of the 100% coverage which i know some colleagues would have preferred, i think it offers a realistic compromise given the technical and economic constraints that the industry is under. furthermore, member states retain the right to use the spectrum for other purposes where and when it lies outside the mobile satellite service area, and member states may impose emergency service use of mobile satellite systems during major disasters. to conclude, i think we have reached a very good and swift agreement which will benefit both citizens and industry. i trust that the final signatures can be put on the deal in june to allow the first call for applications to go out before the summer, and i hope that, next time member states and the commission decide they need a pan-eu service in a particular frequency band, they will look to the mss decision as a model of how to reach a speedy agreement by involving parliament in the detail of the text.
rapporteur. − mr president, it was very good indeed to hear the commissioner say that the commission has every intention of moving forward on this before the summer. that would be very welcome news, both to citizens and to the industry itself. otherwise, i would simply like to thank everybody for their comments in this debate and to say once again that this would not have been possible if it had not been for the extremely good level of cooperation between everybody who has been involved in negotiating this decision.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, it gives me the greatest of pleasure to welcome every word that the commissioner spoke this evening and also to congratulate mrs thomsen, who has done a wonderful job as rapporteur on this most important subject. it is a delight for me on the centre-right of the chamber to be applauding a socialist from the other side and from another country than my own and to wish her well because she has balanced the whole approach; she has highlighted the most important factors relating to the fact that ladies come to their teenage years ahead of males. they are more intelligent; they are more hard-working; they can apply themselves and yet, even when they go into higher education, into the start of a research career, they sometimes fall away. this is often because of pressures at home, in their personal lives. mrs thomsen is right in her report and this evening to concentrate and focus on those problems. the report has constructive ideas. the only thing i hold back from is setting specific objectives for the percentage of women that should reach this grade or that grade or that position or another position. that is too prescriptive. but, on the other hand, this report has my total support. i was honoured to produce the opinion from the committee on industry, research and energy. i thank those shadow rapporteurs on the main report and on my opinion for their full cooperation. this is an example of a piece of legislation and a report here in the european parliament ensuring that we are seen at our best, in cooperation, focusing on the needs of the research industry. i close by saying that last thursday evening i went with one of my colleagues, lambert van nistelrooij from holland, to oxford university. all of the scientists, the researchers, there were female. i greatly welcome that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury (11488/1/2007 – c6-0034/2008 – 2006/0206(cod)) (rapporteur: dimitrios papadimoulis) (a6-0102/2008).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, can i first of all offer my thanks to mr papadimoulis for guiding this report through parliament. i fully understand that this must have been a very difficult and time-consuming process. however, i must express my dissatisfaction at the final stage of this process, namely the informal meetings that were held with the council with a view to reaching the second-reading agreement. they were conducted by mr papadimoulis alone without the other shadow rapporteurs being invited. i think that is a regrettable situation. my group has been generally supportive of the common position originally adopted by the council, as i am well aware of the need to try and agree a speedy implementation of this regulation. my group agrees with the major points that were a matter of concern for some member states, particularly the need to retain the possibility of safe permanent storage and the need to adhere approximately to the agreed date of implementation. most of those issues were addressed and resolved. however, two specific issues were not. first of all there is the position of almadén that the commissioner referred to. we do not think that the compromise amendments go far enough: we think there should be specific references to the problems caused in almadén, one of the primary mercury-mining areas in the community, and we think they should be addressed. they were addressed by parliament at both stages and we think they should be in the common position. the other issue about which i am disappointed is the specific inclusion of a reference in the compromise package to a possible ban on the export of barometers. this was not present in the common position and was not supported by my group. i am disappointed that the council conceded that point to mr papadimoulis during the negotiations. therefore i have retabled an amendment to delete it from the final package. finally i would like to thank the commission and mr papadimoulis and particularly the slovenian presidency who i know have worked hard on this. it is not their fault that our parliamentary procedures, in my view, need serious reform on these matters.
perhaps they will do so in writing. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper on better ship dismantling (2007/2279(ini)) (a6-0156/2008).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − mr president, i may perhaps be the only person here tonight who has actually witnessed first-hand the process to which we are referring. as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i have been to bangladesh and seen the shipyards. in amongst the ships that were being repaired and dismantled – and the noise, i have to tell you, was intolerable – there were whole families living, sleeping, cooking meals in shanty towns. children were playing around the boats, retrieving cricket balls from under the vessels whilst above them oxyacetylene torches were being used. it is not acceptable for european ships – and none of them were flying european flags; by this stage they had already been passed off as local ships or from somewhere else in the world – to be broken in these circumstances. the committee on transport and tourism believes that the eu should lead the way and encourage global action with the clear aim of putting an end to the current practices and ways in which ships are dismantled, particularly in parts of south asia. but dismantling should not be stopped altogether, nor indeed immediately, as mr blokland stated, in view of its economic importance to the countries concerned. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that we must work towards a global strategy which ensures that all those who are involved in the process of ship recycling assume their due share of responsibility for the way it is carried out – for safety, workers’ rights and the protection of the environment. finally, i think we should also support the development of a competitive and clean european ship-recycling industry. but, in the meantime, member states must commit themselves to a policy that state-owned vessels and old warships will be dismantled in a safe and environmentally sound way.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am glad that the commission is bringing forward proposals and i am pleased the eu is finally dealing with this issue, because we have known about it for a long time. the conditions that robert evans has just described are nothing new to this parliament and nothing new to the commission. yet it is now the end of may 2008. we have a green paper and we hear that we are going to have a proposal from the commission to be adopted in may 2009, which means it will be at the end of this commission and in the middle of the european election campaign. i wonder how we will ever have anything in place to deal with the hundreds of ships which the commission has identified. it knows that 800 single-hull tankers will have to be dismantled from 2010 onwards. i wonder if you can comment, commissioner, on that very short timetable which we are leaving ourselves to introduce legislation. it would also have been better if the eu could have completed the legislation in this parliament before the end of your mandate. the socialist group will support mr blokland. we have supported everything he has done throughout this procedure and we thank him very much for his hard work. we will also support amendments which strengthen the proposal, but we will not support amendments which are protectionist. we are not seeking to stop ships being dismantled in asian countries because, as robert evans has just pointed out, there are jobs at stake and the metals are a major source of raw materials for these countries. but we want the pre-cleaning, which, as mr blokland pointed out, is quite possible. we need to invest in specialised cleaning operations in europe so that we can have a much safer environment for people to dismantle ships in the developing countries. we also support the creation of a ship-dismantling fund. i have seen that the ppe-de group have asked for separate votes. i hope they are not going to vote against that fund tomorrow in plenary. commissioner, i hope we can act speedily and that we can get something on the statute books to deal with the huge increase in ships for dismantling in 2010.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, if the interim report from our committee on climate change does no more than state the obvious, that is no bad thing. for it confirms, in black and white, what most of us have acknowledged for some time. the science of climate change is incontrovertible. permafrost and ice caps are melting, sea-levels and temperatures rising, largely due to human activity. failure to act now means humankind will hurtle towards a tipping point from which there is no return. the deadlines for climate policy are set not by the european union, nor by the world community: they are set by nature. and the bottom line is that – despite commitments in kyoto – global greenhouse gas emissions are growing faster than ever before, up by a quarter since 1990. some scientists say co2 concentrations have already gone too far. all agree the window of opportunity open to us to stabilise emissions and limit the rise in temperature to two degrees above pre-industrial levels will close within seven years. democracies are run by crisis management. serious problems are often not tackled until they have to be tackled, and as karl-heinz florenz points out in this excellent report we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions not by 20%, but possibly by up to 40%, depending on what deal can be made with third countries at the copenhagen talks next year. there are positive signs from the other big polluters, china and the usa. beijing showed a new-found willingness to negotiate at the un summit in bali and all three us presidential candidates are committed to tackling climate change. what we must do – in the absence of further evidence, and with the resources at hand – is to approve the commission’s climate change package, and i salute the work that my colleagues lena ek, chris davis and vittorio prodi have done in this area. we must also redouble our efforts to promote clean energy – and the amazing thing is this: we know how. generating power from the desert sun, as a supplement to sources of renewable energy here in europe, could speed up the process of cutting co2 emissions at a stroke. indeed, satellite-based studies by the german aerospace centre have shown us that, using less than 0.3% of the desert area of the middle east and north africa, enough high-voltage electricity can be generated to supply current and future demand in europe, the middle east and north africa. it is not rocket science. it has been done for 20 years in california. plants are now being built in spain and morocco to do the same. if we could summon the drive and the determination, the guts and the grit, we could make the shift from oil while providing jobs, drinking water and better infrastructure for those bearing the brunt of climate change. we could combat climate change without having to turn off the lights. our aim should be to put europe’s money where its mouth is, to invest money in high-voltage solar thermal power generation and political capital in the human relations across the mediterranean sea to make it possible. we could find no better ammunition for use in negotiations with the un to get a progressive international agreement in copenhagen. (applause)
mr president, at first sight this report may seem like a technical one, simply summarising the science as we know it. but make no mistake, this report is also a deeply political one and it is a call to arms, because the fact is that this report demonstrates the urgent need for a complete revolution in the way we run our economies. knowledge brings with it responsibility and to know what we know about the realities of climate change and yet to fail to act in a commensurate way would amount to nothing less than a crime against future generations. so the logic of the report is this: that the eu’s 20% emission reduction target is quite simply incompatible with the science on two degrees; that we must therefore move unilaterally to make at least 30% domestic reductions now; that we must respond to new facts – just last month a leading climate scientist, james hansen, warned that current targets are far too weak and that we must commit far more resources to helping developing countries adapt, with all the revenue from the ets auctioning being ring-fenced for climate action. the good news is that the eu is uniquely well placed to take the lead on climate change and that, if we were to take up that challenge, we might also find that our own institutions are revitalised and that the eu is reconnected with the citizens it is supposed to represent.
mr president, i agree with mr pęk. many eminent scientists from around the world signed the manhattan declaration on 4 march this year. amongst other things, it states that ‘there is no convincing evidence that co2 emissions from modern industrial activity has in the past, is now, or will in the future, cause catastrophic climate change’. last week, another 31 000 scientists endorsed that view in the oregon petition. this is no longer the odd dissenting voice, and nigel lawson, a member of the house of lords committee on climate change, also agrees that the debate is not over. before we commit ourselves to enormous costs by way of climate taxes, carbon trading etc. at the very time when we are being warned of a likely global economic recession, we must listen to both sides of the debate and make absolutely sure who is right.
mr president, for once i come to the house with good news: global warning has stopped. 1998 was the warmest year in living memory. for the last 10 years global temperatures have been static or falling. the recent modest warming is comparable to what occurred in the medieval warm period; before that, in the roman optimum; and, before that, in the holocene optimum. temperatures today are below the maxima of the last 2 000 years. increasing doubts are being cast on the role of co2. since 1850, average temperatures correlate well with solar cycles but very poorly with atmospheric co2. the pattern of warming, both geographically and over time, is wholly different from that predicted by computer models. the greenhouse models predict maximum warming in the high atmosphere, but observations show that what little warming there is is at the surface and largely a result of the urban heat-island effect. the greenhouse effect of co2 is logarithmic; that is, it is a law of diminishing returns. in greenhouse terms, the atmosphere is already saturated with co2 and further emissions will have little effect. the sea-level is rising no faster than it always has, about six to eight inches a century; the global ice mass is broadly constant; severe weather events are no more frequent than they ever were; species extinction is driven not by global warming but by loss of habitat, and especially by the drive for biofuels. recent studies show that polar bears are doing very well. climate hysteria is increasingly remote from reality. we need to rethink our policies before they do any more damage. (applause)
, in writing. – to successfully tackle climate change, markets need to adapt so they reflect the environmental cost of carbon. polluters must pay. we must use every type of policy instrument including vat reductions, emissions trading, and subsidies to change the behaviour of consumers and businesses so they have more incentives to take eco-friendly options. as sir nicholas stern has pointed out, the economic and social costs of climate change will be catastrophic. therefore, i strongly disagree with those in the house who deny climate change. they only need to look at the increasing number and frequency of natural disasters worldwide to see its impact. these disasters are clearly a wake-up call for us to take greater action. the eu has a legitimate role in tackling climate change and it needs to set an example and provide guidance to other countries. we need greater dialogue with emerging economies india and china to ensure that their growth contributes less to global emissions than eu and us’s has done over the last century. there is a strong case for technology transfer from the eu to developing countries so they can avoid carbon intensive industrial development and leapfrog directly to a low carbon economy.
madam president, first i would like to defend joost lagendijk from the scandalous attacks upon his integrity by the chp and certain nationalistic journalists. joost lagendijk is a good friend of turkey and a first-class chairman of the jpc. those who attack lagendijk attack this parliament and they seek to sacrifice democracy upon the altar of an aggressive laicism. our own message must be absolutely clear: if turkey’s supreme court continues to close political parties, they will kill off all prospects of turkish membership of the union.
madam president, may i begin by welcoming the balanced and conscientious approach of the rapporteur and indeed of the commissioner and of the presidency on this important brief. i emphasise three points. to my turkish friends: the detention of 530 trade unionists on 1 may 2008 was a breach of the fundamental ilo right of free association and of the copenhagen criteria. please protect trade unions, including preventing further attacks against the turkish road transport union tümtis. to the opponents of turkish accession: do not exploit the case against the ak party in the constitutional court for your political ends. after the crisis of the presidential nomination, elections were held and democracy won. today, one way or another, i expect democracy to win again. to mr claeys, mr langen, mr belder, mr toubon and others who deliberately seek to undermine public support for eu accession in turkey by the language and the threats used in this morning’s debate: turkish public opinion should understand you are not in a majority, you do not speak for this parliament and you will not succeed in obstructing its european perspectives.
mr president, before we take the vote on the calendar, could i raise the point about tomorrow’s intended strike. i understand that air france will be on strike, the trains will be on strike and the airport workers will be on strike. this makes our life as parliamentarians impossible. i have spent the morning trying to reschedule flights in order that i can return to my constituency. it means that i will miss the voting session tomorrow. it is interfering with our work as parliamentarians. we are about to vote on the calendar, which requires us to come here twelve times a year, and yet france does nothing to make our life easy in coming here. it is almost impossible. if we are going to continue to come to strasbourg, perhaps we could make some changes to the transport systems to enable us to come here? (applause)
mr president, when this regulation came before parliament at first reading, i opposed attempts to allow mercury to be stored, not only in salt mines but also in underground facilities adapted for waste disposal. it was clear that anhydrite mines were being included in the expanded definition and this was very worrying for the people of billingham in my constituency, who are fighting plans to use the former anhydrite mines under their homes for waste disposal. unfortunately, the text voted today at second reading has reintroduced the possibility of storing mercury in sites other than salt mines, specifically in deep underground hard rock formations. as the billingham anhydrite mines may come under this new definition of permitted sites, i felt it necessary to abstain on the vote on the compromise package since there is no final vote at second reading. this is despite agreeing very much with the ban on the export of mercury from europe.
mr president, i voted against this measure. it seems that climate alarmism and environmentalism are rapidly taking on the characteristics of a religion. they are based on faith not fact. and the possibility of carbon offsetting has been rightly compared with the medieval purchase of papal indulgences. now we have mr nassauer introducing what appears to be a sort of environmental blasphemy law. i have considerable reservations about these environmental issues being dealt with by criminal law rather than civil law, in any case. but the real problem here is the extension of european law. the people i represent want to have trade, want to have cooperation in europe but they do not want political union and they do not want a european legal system. we should resist every further move to create europe responsibilities and european competence in these areas.
mr president, while this report seems to remove references to specific sanctions, it does make reference to what actions should be considered criminal activity within member states. so let us consider a scenario where someone in my constituency – london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world – commits an act which is not considered a criminal act under english law (a body of law that has been arrived at through common law tradition and through reason) but which, because we have decided to impose this eu law from above, setting reason aside, over the heads of the citizens of my constituency, is now considered a criminal act under eu law. what will that lead to? how will my constituents respond? i will tell you how they will respond. they will say: ‘what nonsense is this? why is it that what is not considered under reasonable english law to be a criminal act, is a criminal act under european law? it is time to leave the european union!’ therefore we have to be careful we are not driving the uk out of the eu.
mr president, i am pleased to be able to support this report because it does not seem to be an example of coercion but rather of cooperation. in fact i worked in this area in a previous career. i advised companies on mobile satellite services. one of the things that the companies had to face up to was the fact that they misunderstood the market. about five operators launched global satellite services in the late 1990s. despite their best estimates, they completely misunderstood the market because they thought the market was the international business traveller, but the technology in this market was superseded by developments in cellular technology. i am pleased that we have an opportunity for these companies to try again to create a global mobile satellite service market, which i think would be of great benefit, particularly to people in developing countries where terrestrial networks have no reach. therefore i welcome this report and i voted in favour.
mr president, i voted against the florenz report. one of the greatest myths of climate alarmism is that there is a scientific consensus and that all scientists agree. as a member of the temporary committee on climate change i know why mr florenz’s report turned out the way it did: they only listened to one side of the debate and therefore they concluded there was a consensus. in the debate earlier today, mr booth reminded us of the oregon declaration, which 30 000 relevant scientists have signed, challenging the whole basis of climate alarmism. there is no consensus; there is a powerful and growing body of scientific opinion which takes the other view. in the mean time we are going to do huge economic damage to the people we represent in a futile and doomed attempt to influence a speculative problem, which, in the view of many people, does not exist. it is the economic damage which will crucify us, and it will crucify specifically europe because developing countries like china and india have far too much common sense to be taken in by it.
in writing. − i supported all the amendments to the calendar that reduced our time in strasbourg and increased it in brussels. the current situation is bizarre, trekking as we do backwards and forwards between brussels and strasbourg at vast cost in time and money. we should meet at a single location. i do however reject mr stevenson's complaint regarding the current transport strikes. we recognise and support the right to strike. our objection to strasbourg is not based on any opposition to the exercise of workers' rights in france, but the inherent waste involved in our current institutional arrangements. i voted against making an exception for the monday of orthodox easter when we make no provision for not meeting on 14 july. secular celebrations deserve the same treatment as religious festivals.
in writing. − i am generally in favour of what is proposed for the 2009 calendar of part-sessions. however, i believe that amendments requesting an extension of the time spent in strasbourg would not contribute to the efficient running of the parliament. indeed, efficiency and logic demands that there be one single parliament seat in brussels. my views on this issue are reflected in my vote.
in writing. − i generally support dimitrios papadimoulis’ report on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury. bringing forward the date of the export ban to 2010 allows for greater coherence with the eu’s overall mercury strategy. i also support the extension of the types of mercury covered within the ban. i further feel that, before the ban comes into force, more research is required regarding safe disposal methods for mercury. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it will allow criminal sanctions for serious environmental offences. member states must take a strong stance on environmental protection and ensure strict application of this directive. in particular i am voting for the inclusion of an annex to the directive which clarifies which legislation is subject to criminal sanctions. an annex is crucial to give greater legal clarity about what community legislation is affected. it should both cover existing legislation, where this directive will have competence to impose criminal sanctions, and allow for future legislation to be covered. furthermore, an annex will ensure the directive is restricted only to enforcement of community law and implementing national legislation and has no impact on what is purely national law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the nassauer report on the protection of the environment through criminal law. whilst substantive criminal law is and should remain a matter for member states, it is equally clear that environmental protection is something which can best be coordinated at the eu level. i am satisfied that the compromise package will allow the eu take the lead in environmental protection whilst respecting the integrity of national legal systems.
in writing. − amendment 11d calls for the deletion of paragraph 26. there are two ways of interpreting paragraph 26. some are concerned that it could be a call for 'one share, one vote' and for that reason have voted for the deletion of the paragraph. this is not my interpretation. the paragraph does specifically refer to 'special individual obstacles to the freedom of movement of capital' and refers to a specific judgment concerning volkswagen. my interpretation of this is that the paragraph invites the commission to remedy special, and extreme, protectionist measures. for this reason i voted against the amendment and for retention of the paragraph as a statement against protectionism.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues wish to make clear that we strongly oppose paragraph 23 of this report which supports the establishment of a 'common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb)' in the eu. we have, however, made our policy on this clear on many occasions, and the balance of the rest of the report in promoting simplification of business rules has our support, subject to this clarification.
in writing. − i supported mr lehne's report on simplifying the business environment for companies. the eu has a vital role to play in ensuring that businesses operate in a competitive environment, yet often businesses and member states find themselves hindered by over-complex rules. moves to simplify the business environment are therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − i welcome the blokland report on the green paper on ship dismantling. ship breaking is a dangerous trade which has a high cost both in terms of human life and on the environment. it is unacceptable for the eu to turn a blind eye to the export of ships to developing countries for breaking up. these ships are in effect hazardous waste and it is vital that the eu acts to prevent this export. i welcome this house’s support for my own group’s amendments which highlight the urgency for action to be taken in this area.
in writing. − johannes blokland's report on the green paper on better ship dismantling seeks to achieve environmentally and socially sustainable ship dismantling. the report aims to address problems currently encountered in that sector, particularly the major health and safety concerns for workers in the shipyards of bangladesh and india. i therefore voted in support of the report's recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the florenz report on climate change and think that it is right that this parliament takes the issue so seriously. efforts to combat climate change require action at all levels, and the eu institutions as well as the nations of europe must all work together to move towards a low-carbon economy. the vote on the report comes on the same day that a major energy conference takes place in aberdeen. the scottish government has signalled their intention for scotland to become the green energy capital of europe. that government fully supports the eu’s targets for renewables and is committed to a non-nuclear scotland producing 50% of its electricity demand from renewable sources by 2020. i hope that other nations throughout europe can look to scotland as a good example in the fight against climate change.
in writing. − scientific findings prove the human origins of the current global warming trend and mr florenz's report re-iterates these results. there is an urgent need for action at eu level to combat climate change and limit the increase in global temperature to no more than 2 c above pre-industrial levels. unlike some members from the conservative party, i fully accept these facts and voted in support of mr florenz's report "scientific facts of climate change: findings and recommendations for decision making".
in writing. − i voted for the oomen-ruijten report on turkey's progress towards membership of the eu in 2007. i do believe that turkey should be capable of joining the union. currently there are difficulties on issues of trade-union and human rights and the rights of minorities such as the kurds and the christians. however, progress is being made, albeit slowly, and should be acknowledged. i did support the amendments dealing with the armenian genocide. i know it was a long time ago, but a nation must come to terms with its history and so far turkey has failed to come to terms with this bloody stain on its record. it may not be a final barrier to membership of the eu, but we cannot in all honestly just sweep it under an all too convenient turkish carpet.
in writing. − ria oomen-ruijten's turkey 2007 progress report is a comprehensive and encouraging analysis of the country's progress towards accession. turkey appears to have made progress on areas such as freedom of speech and judicial reform. the government's proposals to reform article 301, a hurdle to full democratic freedom in the country, are also to be welcomed. of course, further effort is needed in areas pertaining to rights for minority groups in the country and the current case going through the constitutional court is of concern. i support the report's recommendations and i voted in favour.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the tragic situation in burma.
madam president, a regime which wantonly allows its own citizens to needlessly suffer in pursuit of its own xenophobic paranoia is not just amoral but evil, and sadly such a junta rules in burma. unmoved as it is by the plight of its own people, it is unlikely to be influenced by what is said in the european parliament, but in the name of humanity we must speak out. we are not trying to control burma, we are just trying to help its people, though the reality is that without regime change little will improve in the long term for the burmese. yes, we must maximise humanitarian aid, considering food and supply drops as a necessary tactic; but ultimately the restoration of democracy is how this once-thriving country will reclaim its position and put the people’s needs before the junta’s preservation.
madam president, i would like to thank and commend the action taken by commissioner michel. we have heard today that cyclone nargis has brought devastation to two and a half million burmese people and, as the commissioner said, the situation has been exacerbated by the regime’s intransigence in denying foreign aid, so that only a quarter of those in need of urgent help have actually received it. this is unbelievable and a heartbreaking denial of the burmese people’s most basic human right. but it is also verging on criminal negligence. recently we have heard about some limited flexibility by the junta but i urge the commission and council to exercise caution towards this softening, because this is the regime that ruthlessly repressed its own pro-democracy movement. i would stress that it is vital to keep up the pressure on the junta so that all un agencies with the experience and logistical know-how to deal with the situation are allowed in. i am especially concerned that, as the commissioner stressed, it is the children who are suffering the most. accordingly unicef needs to be allowed in, to alleviate the threat of disease and malnutrition. finally, i call on those who have influence with burma, namely the neighbours and eu partners – india, china and the asean countries – to encourage the junta to accept relief from others. i also call on the commission and others to take steps to make it clear to the junta that democracy and engagement with the outside world are the only viable ways out of the crisis. i hope that commissioner michel will provide an answer to the questions ‘where do we go from here?’ and ‘how do we move forward?’
madam president, the tragedy of burma has been only compounded by the refusal of the military junta to allow the delivery of aid and assistance. they have refused more than token assistance from a us task force, home-based in okinawa, which was fortuitously deployed off thailand. while hundreds of thousands have died in the initial disaster, this can only be multiplied massively with the refusal to receive aid and therefore control the outbreak of disease. oxfam have estimated that up to two thirds of a million people may be threatened in the current circumstances. we have to urge everyone – the chinese, the european union, other neighbours – to put as much pressure as possible on the regime to moderate its position and open its doors to aid and aid workers currently parked in bangkok and thailand.
madam president, an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.8 and an epicentre near chengdu in sichuan killed over 100 000 people on 12 may. we can only offer our condolences to all those who have lost family members, and in particular parents who have lost children. however, unlike the parallel tragedy in burma, where some have suggested responsibility to protect should lead to direct international intervention, the chinese have employed exceptional emergency resources, along with soldiers and medical staff. china has welcomed foreign assistance, including japanese rescue workers who are currently working in the area, as well as allowing the chinese and foreign media to follow the disaster in its aftermath. the european union has already contributed eur 10 million in aid, as commissioner michel has said. we urge the council and commission to provide further emergency aid, technical assistance and reconstruction aid to the region concerned in the coming months and years.
on behalf of the alde group. – in the uk, hundreds of veterans believe that exposure to depleted uranium in the first gulf war has left them with chronic illnesses and disabilities and in iraq there is evidence that the use of depleted uranium has caused an increase in babies being born with only one eye or who are missing both eyes. seven of the eight babies missing both eyes had fathers who were exposed to depleted uranium during the war in iraq in 1991. at least 17 countries still have depleted uranium weapons in their military arsenals, including three eu members: france, greece and the uk. we now urgently need an international treaty establishing an immediate moratorium on the use, development, production, stockpiling, transfer and testing of depleted uranium weapons as well as the recycling or destruction of the existing stocks. i hope everyone will support this resolution.
mr president, while we are on the subject of radioactive weapons, this parliament has been remarkably quiet about a british citizen – unfortunately consequently an eu citizen – killed by a radioactive weapon in london in december 2006. i refer of course to mr alexander litvinenko, who was murdered in an act of state-sponsored terrorism by means of polonium-210. the chief suspect for the crime is mr andrei lugovoi, who is now a member of the russian parliament and cannot be extradited under the russian constitution. meanwhile mr litvinenko’s widow is denied an inquest into her husband’s death in the british courts, which could scrutinise the evidence of his murder in the absence of a trial of those suspected of the crime. this murder was an act of war by russia on the uk. the british government does not want to confront that fact. but if you want to discuss radioactive weapons, why not hold a debate on mr litvinenko’s murder and its far-reaching consequences?
ith the luck of the irish, the electors of ireland alone are to be allowed to decide on a treaty which fundamentally affects the future of us all. will you, on behalf of the council, pledge to accept their democratic verdict or, like the voters of france and holland, will they be treated with contempt if they dare to vote ‘no’, very much in the disreputable tradition of ‘croppy, lie down!’ and nice ii?
my thanks to the president-in-office for the further call he has made tonight. i wonder, given the changes in government in cuba, whether he and the council have detected any change and increase in the enthusiasm of cubans to enter into the open political dialogue he mentioned? i wonder also if he could reflect on the current debate taking place in the united states and the debate that no doubt takes place between the council and the united states in our transatlantic relations. does he detect any change of policy there which may incentivise further improvements in human rights in cuba?
i was slightly disappointed by your reply because i think the cubans are indicating a real willingness to move and that the change in government is a change in emphasis in terms of the cuban approach to the outside world. it would be a great pity if the eu did not use this opportunity and grasp the chance to have a serious dialogue with cuba. so let us not keep putting more pressure on cuba to make concessions, let us start with the eu engaging with the cubans.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too wish to congratulate our rapporteur. i was pleased to support this report in committee and i am pleased to support it now, along with my group. i also welcome what the commissioner has said, and am pleased she is in the chamber this evening as there is a great deal of common ground between the commission and parliament on animal health issues. i look forward to working with her and her services in the months ahead, as this dossier moves forward. i am pleased the commissioner highlighted why it is we need a common eu animal health strategy. it is quite clear that, in a globalised world, bluetongue does not respect borders or our policies or the differences between countries within the european union, or indeed the eu’s external borders. avian flu and many other diseases can travel around the planet very, very quickly in a globalised world. we need to act together in order to deal with them and work out a strategy for remedying them. we are exporting our animals – and perhaps their health problems too – and it is clear that we are all in this together. i look forward to the rolling-out of the health action plan, which the commissioner said will be coming in the next few weeks. i would refer the house in particular to paragraph 46 of parliament’s report, which acknowledges that the eu is already a beacon of best practice for the world as regards animal welfare and refers in particular to the wto negotiations. i would urge the commissioner to talk with commissioner mandelson to ensure that the wto negotiations do not water down or compromise the eu’s standards, particularly in relation to what are, frankly, substandard imports into the european union. we had many misadventures in the committee over the issue of brazilian beef imports, for which i am not sure that the system worked as well as it could have done. i hope we will not be replicating that situation with the us poultry issue. one other animal welfare issue i wish to raise is that of sheep tagging. we are supportive of the broad thrust of this measure, but frankly believe that the commission is going in the wrong direction and is not acting in a proportionate manner to what is actually needed on the ground in order to ensure everything that it requires. this is particularly true in the case of the british isles, where scotland, england, northern ireland and wales already have a system that works pretty well and effectively protects europe’s animals and their welfare. i would be grateful for the commissioner’s thoughts on that, but otherwise broadly support this report and her efforts.
mr president, i would like to thank mr wojciechowski very much for his report, and to welcome the commissioner. i also wish to congratulate mrs de lange for the hard work that she has put in as shadow rapporteur. we are all very conscious that we need a very strong animal health strategy and animal welfare strategy, which is what consumers in europe are actually demanding. however, we must also be careful that imported meat and meat products from outside the european union also meet our high standards. for instance, we would like to see a much higher welfare standard in the poultry industry. we want there to be more space for our poultry, especially broilers, and can help to produce broilers in a much more welfare-friendly manner, but at the same time we must be careful that we are not importing products of an inferior nature. also in the case of the poultry industry, there is the banning of crates for poultry and of battery cages, and of course we also import a lot of egg products in powdered and liquid form – nearly 70% of egg products are imported in that form. those products too can be from animals that were not kept in accordance with good animal welfare standards, so we must also be careful on that point. i also agree with my scottish colleague that if we are to bring in traceability and look towards an electronic system, then we must ensure that system is up and running, is cost effective and can actually be properly implemented by farmers without huge costs. so while i broadly accept what is a good report, i think we must be careful, as we make progress on standards in europe, that we also have the same standards for imports.
mr president, i have three quick points to make. firstly, i must express some concern about the creation of a legal framework for a cost-sharing scheme with regard to major disease. it would have been far better and more equitable to use some of our traditional under-spend in the budget for a good cause like that. i also confess that part of my concern is that a legal framework would be likely to give considerable discretion to member states as to how much cost-sharing they require of local farmers. my fear is that, on the basis of past practice, this would mean it being punitive for farmers within the united kingdom. my second point is that i agree with the call for assistance for farmers to purchase new electronic id equipment, and i look forward to that being possible under the rural development programme. thirdly, i welcome the focus in the report on eu standards being undermined by imports from third countries. that concern, commissioner, has never been greater than when witnessing commissioner mandelson’s reckless push for a wto deal at any price, with scant regard for the future of our indigenous agrifood industry.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, once again the commission is getting ahead of legislation. the eu has no competence over education, at least not until the lisbon treaty is ratified, and that depends on the irish referendum. is the result of that a foregone conclusion, or will a ‘no’ vote there be just swept aside like the french and dutch referendums? in any case, what kind of structure will this training foundation have? i see that our proposal is for it to be run variously by six representatives from member states, plus six from the commission and only three from parliament, or that plus representatives from partner countries appointed by the commission. in the latter case, responsibility will partly be in the hands of countries which are not member states, giving the unelected commission a major say. hardly democratic. amendment 7 suggests that the commission would submit candidates for the directorship of the etf, and this causes concern in many quarters. it has resulted in further suggestions as to the make-up of the etf board, right up to an unworkable one representative for each member state. to have so many counter-suggestions for the composition of the board of the etf is not exactly the best of starts, but that begs the question: why does anyone think we need such a foundation? i would argue that a training foundation is not only unnecessary, it will be counterproductive. if you care to look round the countries of europe as opposed to the eu, you will find training programmes of all sorts scattered around. there are different standards but, between them, they develop many skills, which is why europe has such a rich heritage. you see, each country has always produced its artists, composers, authors and so on. even the small countries come up with, for example, composers of world renown. each country produces its leaders and experts, its technicians, bankers, sportsmen and women and all the rest of the range of skills that are enhanced by training. so there is a multiplicity of skills, with each country contributing in its own way. if we try to put all that together in a european training foundation it would drain the life out of the training schemes in many countries. a single etf will not have the intrinsic qualities of national flavour. we need variety, not a harmonised one-track theme. in short, we will lose more than we gain with such a scheme. please forget it and let the countries of europe make their contributions to the whole. that might even generate enthusiasm for the eu project, for that is sadly lacking, judging by the ‘no’ votes of two founding states and the continuous efforts being made to sell the eu to its peoples.
commissioner michel, my first question has already been asked by marianne mikko: is there a problem of competition or lack of coordination between the different ngos and is the commission playing a role in trying to coordinate the excellent work that everyone is doing? second question: when i was at school, there was an organisation in england called voluntary service overseas. does the commission have a programme to encourage young people who want to attend, perhaps, training but also to participate in these development aid programmes? does the commissioner have a programme to assist young people who would like to do this?
in writing. − the european training foundation plays a valuable role in the development of vocational training systems in third countries. i believe that this parliament should play a full part in the etf’s functioning and have accordingly been able to support the rapporteur’s position.
in writing. − the situation in lebanon is preoccupying. the agreement in doha between the government and opposition leaders has provided the country with an opportunity to hopefully move towards relative peace and stability. while the vote is yet to be made on the nomination of general michel sleiman as president, signs that all sides are prepared to negotiate are encouraging. i believe that the eu should continue to support measures to ensure that we no longer witness the violence and political upheaval suffered by the lebanese people. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution to support particularly paragraphs 16 and 35 that call for the developed world to clamp down on agricultural subsidies. the call by french agriculture minister, michel barnier, for europe to establish a food security plan and resist further cuts in europe’s agriculture budget is ill-thought out. after serving on the parliament’s budget committee for eight years, where i became well-versed in the anomalies of the cap, i believe such a move would be counterproductive. it would raise world food prices at a time of crisis and do nothing for the long-term health of european agriculture. france will soon take over the eu presidency, and a review of the eu budget is overdue. president sarkozy must grasp the opportunity to begin real reform of the agricultural subsidies within the cap and allow the eu to fulfil its responsibilities to the developing world. the uk government, on the other hand, was right to call for a trade deal to allow poorer countries greater access to developed world markets. this could help the world’s 100 million people in poor countries who would otherwise be pushed deeper into poverty. however, more must still be done at eu level.
in writing. − we have entered into a period characterised by food insecurity. prices have risen dramatically and the demand for food is rising faster than supply. a combination of climatic factors (such as prolonged droughts) and the use of grain in the production of biofuels has further aggravated the situation. this current state of affairs is particularly worrying in the context of the developing world. in poorer countries such as haiti, food shortages have already led to incidents of riots and civil unrest. as this resolution points out, the priority of the international community should be to ensure food autonomy and self sufficiency for developing countries. however, rising food prices do not only affect poorer nations. the eu must now take action in order to stabilise this situation. first and foremost, we should be encouraging our farmers to produce more. moreover, a more sensible balance regarding the use of grain for food supply and energy production needs to be achieved. a review of the cap health check would be an ideal forum in which to address these issues.
in writing. − 850 million people across the world go hungry everyday. this crisis requires swift and effective action from the eu and its member states. i join the calls for an impact assessment of the role of retailers in the food chain and the commission and member states to analyse discrepancies in prices charged by farmers for their produce and those charged by major retailers. indeed, this crisis is of a global scale and much needs to be done in developing countries. we should therefore be focusing on helping developing countries in areas such as agriculture, rural development and agribusiness. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − europe's citizens have come together to enjoy the benefits of a european union which can express itself not only in europe but without. nowhere is this more obvious than in the treatment of its citizens when travelling abroad. visas are already not asked for by the usa for many eu countries. whilst i understand the legitimate right of the usa to make up its own mind on the issue, i feel there is a rational argument in favour of extending this right to all of the eu's citizens. i feel that a properly negotiated agreement with the usa should reflect the non-discrimination approach required by the parliament.
in writing. − i fully support the resolution dealing with the tragic situation in burma. the original natural disaster of the cyclone has now been overtaken by the man-made disaster created by the burmese government’s response. the burmese government has a moral and legal duty towards its citizens and must allow international aid in to prevent the situation becoming even more serious.
in writing. − the tragic situation in burma demands urgent attention. in so far rejecting international aid, the burmese regime has proven their disregard for the seriousness of the situation at hand. for the victims of cyclone nargis, this is not an issue of politics, but of survival. i join my colleagues in urging the military regime to accept offers of assistance from the international community. indeed, our asian partners also have a role to play in putting pressure on the regime in rangoon. i reiterate my view that, in encouraging other asean countries to reconsider burma’s membership, rangoon would encounter strong pressure to finally acknowledge the rights and freedoms that its population have been, and are still, crying out for. i join my colleagues in voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. − i join my colleagues in saluting china's efforts in helping its people following the earthquake in sichuan province. what we are seeing with china is an example to other states in the region faced with the massive destruction caused by such natural disasters. i also agree that the eu should be actively helping china with reconstruction efforts. i voted in support of the resolution.
in writing. − i fully support calls for the establishment of an international treaty to ban depleted uranium weapons. the use of these weapons causes fatal diseases amongst both military personnel and the civilian population. the eu has a moral duty to take a lead on this issue and work towards the total elimination of these weapons.
in writing. − eu member states and the council must take the lead in negotiating an international treaty aimed at introducing a ban on the development, production, stockpiling, transfer, testing and use of uranium weapons. indeed, i feel that the treaty must not stop there. states must not be given the opportunity to continue using old stocks of these weapons whose impact on health and the environment remains, in my view, uncertain. existing stocks must be destroyed or recycled. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted against paragraph 52 of the wojciechowski report which gives support for the principle of electronic tagging. proposals in this area have not been proportionate and the commission must rethink its strategy. sheep farming plays a vital role in many parts of rural scotland and the eu must act in such a way as to protect these rural economies, not impose additional burdens on sheep farmers.
in writing. − i welcome janus wojciechowski's report. the report incorporates measures aimed at improving food safety as well as animal health. there have been some calls from our snp and conservative colleagues to vote against the mandatory introduction of electronic and dna-based genetic identification and registration of animals at eu-level. in a time when the threat of outbreaks of new and existing animal diseases is acute and expected to be more so due to climate change, it appears sensible to have a secure and robust animal movement system with such identification and registration methods. these views are reflected in the way i voted.
in writing. − this issue is of vital concern for many millions of europe's citizens, particularly in the south-east of england. the most controversial issue has been the transportation of animals which is a function of this report. i welcome any impetus which can be given to improving animal welfare during the process of transportation. of course, an element of this is that veterinary surgeons are properly resourced in carrying out checks and can be certain of an enhanced veterinary fund to rely on for this activity. similarly, those farmers who deal with livestock transportation should benefit from insurance instruments which protect them for indirect losses.
in writing. − i welcome mr van hecke's follow-up to the paris declaration of 2005 on aid effectiveness. the aid system must remain true to its primary goal of reducing poverty. indeed, for aid to be effective it must make use of local systems and fully engage with the recipient. i also support the call for the commission and eu member states to make significant efforts in meeting the objective outlined in the millenium development goals to devote 0.7% of europe's gnp to public development aid by 2015. i believe that the report reflects these views and i voted in favour.
author. − madam president, once again we are returning to the topic of sudan and what can be done to call the government there to account for the suffering of the people of that country, and indeed for the effects on neighbouring states. this afternoon’s resolution particularly concerns the international criminal court, and the fact that, over a year ago now, two arrest warrants were issued by that court for ahmad haroun, the minister of the interior at the time, who is now the minister of humanitarian affairs – which i think many of us find deeply shocking – and also for one of the former janjaweed militia leaders, ali muhammad ali abd-al-rahman. we have seen absolutely no cooperation from the sudanese government in handing these people over to the international criminal court, although that government is well aware that membership of the united nations carries with it obligations. we are seeing an ongoing culture of impunity, where nobody is ever brought to account, it seems, for the most appalling crimes. we consider that all governments should be taking a strong stance on this, and the resolution says that we should be calling on the general affairs and external relations council in june to adopt targeted eu punitive measures against a clearly identified group of sudanese officials who bear responsibility for this non-cooperation, with that action including clear financial sanctions – it appears that when the cries of people do not work, maybe stopping the flow of money will. my group commends this resolution to the house. we look forward to firm action and hopefully seeing these men, and others, brought to justice.
in writing. – i want to join in condemning sudan's persistent failure to cooperate with the international criminal court (icc) and to hand over to the icc ahmad harun and ali kushayb. to date the conflict in sudan has claimed 300 000 victims and created two and a half million internally displaced persons. yet we continue to deliver aid via ahmad harun's ministry of humanitarian affairs. i ask the commission and member states to cease such deliveries via this ministry, to press the government of sudan to remove him from office and to immediately arrest and hand him over to the icc. it is all very well to lecture china on its failure to act over darfur, but in this case the eu is as weak-willed as the rest.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, in my mind’s eye i see a beautiful country. i see people struggling to emerge from the aftermath of the civil war atrocities. i see those memorials to the violence. i see poor people struggling to cope. i see bujumbura closed at night, as one tries to get back in before the curfew because of the violence. i see the health problems, the malaria, the respiratory and hygiene problems. i see the refugee camps – people returning, not quite knowing where their homes were, people coming back from tanzania and people coming across from kivu in the congo. and now again of course we see the violence, the fnl breaking their agreements. we again see the allegations of torture and rough treatment. burundi needs our help. it also needs self-restraint if it is never again to slip down that slope of intolerance and inhumanity.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, we regret the recent clashes between the national defence forces and the national liberation front in burundi. we call on both sides to respect the ceasefire of 7 september last year and particularly demand that the leader of the fnl, agathon rwasa, should fully engage in the peace process. we ask the commission to provide resources to facilitate the reintegration of fnl troops into society, to help provide assistance to the refugees and in particular to demobilise child soldiers that we find in this country. we have to demand that the government of burundi respect the rule of law, end the climate of impunity and ensure that those guilty are swiftly brought to justice. that is what we expect from the commission and the government.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, both of these reports assume that the lisbon treaty/european constitution will be ratified, despite the fact that the result of the irish referendum will not be known until 12 june. but of course this parliament has already decided that it will ignore the irish referendum if it results in a ‘no’ vote. the european union does not want its foreign policy and military ambitions to be subject to the will of the people of europe’s nation states by means of referenda, because it knows very well that they will reject those ambitions if given a choice. and what ambitions they are. these reports show how the eu intends to build its military forces by such means as combining multinational forces, building common command and control structures, adopting common equipment and systems procurement policies, and implementing common communication systems. they envisage combining existing multinational forces and that there should be a standing force under eu command. and there we have the beginnings of a european standing army. these plans endanger nato and undermine the nation states’ positions within the united nations – which the european union seeks to usurp. i recently attended a security conference in brussels in which someone posed the question: who fears the european union? meaning, of course, that without the threat of military force, no-one will take the eu’s foreign policy pretensions seriously. during the latter part of the second world war, one of stalin’s staff said that the pope disapproved of certain of his foreign policy actions. to which stalin replied: ‘and how many divisions does the pope have?’ the european union intends to have its divisions in order to enforce its will and make itself feared on the world stage. and if we want to know what that will look like, just imagine the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy repeated with guns, tanks and aeroplanes. the only people in europe being allowed a say on this are the irish in their referendum of 12 june. one of the key factors influencing the minds of the irish will be to preserve their historical policy of neutrality. but do they realise that if lisbon is ratified neutrality will end and they will become subject to the foreign policy and military ambitions of the european union? but they will not only lose their neutrality, they will find themselves helping to pay for soldiers and armaments to undertake military operations that they may not approve of. they should seriously consider these things before deciding which way to vote in their referendum. the british government and houses of parliament have shamefully betrayed the british people by denying them a referendum on lisbon. irish neutrality is at stake, but so is the very ability of britain to defend itself.
mr president, i have a question for you. how is it that the high representative, mr solana, can come to this house and tell us a direct untruth? i sat here and heard him say that everyone wants a stronger european union and a stronger cfsp. i represent 4.2 million people in the east midlands of the united kingdom. not one of them has ever said that they want a stronger european union or a stronger cfsp, though many have said to me they would like to see our country out of the european union. if you believe this is what the european people want, why will you not let them vote on the european constitution and the lisbon treaty which are designed to deliver it? have you forgotten that the french voted against it and the dutch voted against it? do you not know that 80% of my constituents want a referendum and, if they were given it, at least 80% of them would vote ‘no’? the british people that i represent want trade and cooperation in europe, but they are absolutely opposed to political union and a european army.
mr president, there are, i fear, two problems with the debate this afternoon. the first is the claptrap that we hear from the far right about the treaty of lisbon. the second is that there is a certain complacency about all those, including myself, who strongly defend the common foreign, security and defence policy. the purpose of a grand european security strategy is not to be admired, but to be followed, and too often the council and the member states have failed to follow their excellent strategy. the uk and france have failed to deliver the promises of the st malo agreement. certain others have insisted on a miserly and self-defeating policy that military costs should lie where they fall. what is the point of such a policy when the objective is to spread the burden? the fact is that only 20% of our armed forces can actually fight. several of the esdp missions are impoverished. the absence of a european hq for the esdp fragments commands and impairs the pooling of resources. the sad problem is that we too often fail to learn from our mistakes, and simply tweaking the security strategy will not make the difference.
before we move on, i should like to welcome all our visitors to the visitors’ gallery, but especially a group from my own constituency in yorkshire and the humber.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 5 june 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the next eu-united states summit.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, a few days ago we were with the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue in ljubljana and we very much welcomed the slovenian presidency’s warm reception there. the debates we had with our congressional colleagues showed just how broad an agenda has now developed between the us congress and the european parliament in this transatlantic framework: economic issues, which we heard the commissioner talk about just now, political issues, which could also be economic, like climate change, but also difficult issues like afghanistan and the broader security concept. therefore, we welcome this debate before the eu-us summit next week. i have three short reflections to give to this debate. firstly, when you have such a broad agenda of so many different issues, which is of quite a different nature from that of ten years ago, we surely need to begin to build some form of common approach to a security dimension, a security strategy. we had a debate just now on the european security strategy. we need to begin to match that up with us security strategy in the longer term so that we can then approach these problems on a broader base together. secondly, there is a real absence of the legislators’ dialogue in this debate. we are put to one side, as it were, in ljubljana and then the summit meets in ljubljana two weeks hence. it looks rather like a 19th century organisation, because there is no real contact between the administrations’ and the legislators’ dialogues. surely, as this motion for a resolution indicates, we now need to plan for a transatlantic assembly where you can get the main legislators on both sides of the atlantic to talk with each other and come to common initiatives together. my last point is a personal reflection: as we have the eu, us and nato all coming to deal with these issues together, perhaps it would be an idea at the nato summit in kehl, to be held in the spring of 2009, for the eu-us summit to meet in the margins of the nato summit to show that nato, the eu and the us are handling these problems jointly.
mr president, i would like to focus on three points. firstly, i agree with the emphasis of the commissioner: let us follow up on the transatlantic economic council and the work that we can do there. we need to show that we can take certain issues very seriously and can make the changes necessary to bring about the lifting of any unfortunate barriers, which are basic harbours for national protection. this includes poultry, and it is sad to hear a reflection in the house that we should not have that ban lifted. secondly, we need to promote the positive agenda as well as challenge each other over the difficult issues such as climate change. finance is a very positive story to tell, and i hope that insurance will be added to the list of progress that has been made so far in this area. finally, the recent transatlantic dialogue in ljubljana just got better. more was discussed and more was agreed, and like my colleagues i can agree we need to raise this now to the agreed level of the 1997 houston joint declaration.
mr president, my london constituent, mr budd margolis informs me that his lithuanian relative, rachel margolis, has published her memoirs recounting her experiences in the second world war. she escaped from the vilna ghetto and then worked with the partisans fighting against the nazis. the lithuanian authorities are now using her memoirs as evidence to prosecute surviving jewish partisans as war criminals. these include yitzhak arad, the former director of israel’s holocaust centre, and fania brancovskaja, the librarian at the yiddish institute at vilnius university. lithuania is under an obligation to prosecute surviving second world war criminals but so far has not successfully prosecuted one. jewish partisans who fought against the germans and their collaborators are regarded by some as traitors to lithuania. on behalf of many of my jewish and non-jewish constituents, i ask: where is the justice in persecuting jewish partisans who fought against the nazis, while the murderers of the jews go unpunished?
mr president, across europe we have seen wholly justified protests by fishermen about the sky-high price of fuel. some governments have faced up to their responsibilities; others, like my own, have not. we are supposed to have a common fisheries policy, but in many regions of europe the approach is anything but common. in my constituency local, small-trawler owners are paying a fuel bill of over eur 2 000 per day. their plea for short-term aid has fallen on deaf ears, even though it lies within the power of the local minister to pay de minimis aid under state rules. she has shamefully refused to do so. yet in france and spain, government action has been taken. how can you have a viable common fisheries policy with such disparity on the basic commodity of fuel? i condemn minister gildernew’s indifference and call not just for short-term aid but a long-term fuel strategy for our fishing sector.
mr president, i want to draw your attention to the plight of one of my constituents, alan jones, from knighton, a rural town in the west midlands, who is a striking example of an entrepreneur in europe who has been let down by the absence of high-speed broadband connection in rural areas. he wants to set up a small online company that will offer photo-framing services. he, as a person with a disability, working from home, would be ideal to start up a new business. however, there is only one internet service provider who has a monopoly of broadband in the town and, although it is expanding, the connection is extremely slow and simply not conducive to running a business. the commission has a plan to bridge the digital divide and expand broadband to rural areas, and it urgently needs to solve the problems of internet service providers and ensure there are adequate resources, and that areas are not lagging behind in terms of quality and high speed and low cost. what i would like you to do, mr president, is to make sure that the commission ensures that entrepreneurs like mr jones are not prevented or frustrated from starting up businesses, which prevents the creation of much-needed jobs in rural areas.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, on the face of it, i should be in favour of this report which seeks to help under-developed nations. after all, britain’s commonwealth preference system was of enormous benefit to the less well-off members of the british commonwealth, but then i do not suppose you want to hear how a wicked post-imperial power actually helped its poorer neighbours. the problem is that eu programmes always turn out to have the opposite effect to that intended. the cfp, intended to conserve fish stocks, is a disaster as a result of which the eu, by the votes of this house, has awarded licences to eu fishing fleets to raid the waters of one third world country after another, bringing poverty and starvation where once there was at least subsistence level. excess sugar production is dumped on the third world, to which the answer evidently is to reduce european production, not put it to better use. poor-quality eu tobacco grown with eur 18 million of our taxpayers’ money every year was dumped where it did most harm. now we are told this money will go on anti-smoking propaganda, not third world aid. eu aid programmes are a classic case of giving with one hand and taking back with the other. the cap restricts imports, hampering developing nations while at the same time dumping its excess in the third world. poor local farmers are thus put out of business, pulling the rug from under the very countries that the gsp is meant to help. food prices are spiralling so much that former soviet union leader, mikhail gorbachev, is warning of a food revolution. while all this is going on, the eu is promoting biofuel targets, which will impact on food production in the third world more than anywhere. so this house can wax lyrical about how the eu’s gsp programme will come to the aid of less-developed nations, but the truth is that eu policies will only help to ensure that the poor stay poor, the hungry stay hungry, and the less-developed nations stay undeveloped.
mr president, like many of my colleagues in the house today, i welcome the amendments that are intended to improve the commission’s proposals in line with the rapporteur’s proposals. it is not often on the committee on international trade that we can say that, and that we have that sort of consensus across the parties. his proposal is to produce a more effective system that better responds to the interests of beneficiary countries, to develop rules for a better regulated reform process, to ensure that regulation is in line with democratic control and parliamentary scrutiny, to bring the gsp scheme into line with the wto and the doha round, and also to improve the transparency of gsp. in this spirit, i would like to urge my colleagues to support a cross-party global campaign calling for real trade, of which i am the co-chairman with abdi abdirahman, the speaker of the east african legislative assembly. we call for five things: let us abolish agricultural subsidies; let us abolish agricultural tariffs; let us liberalise rules of origin; let us stop supporting corrupt governments through direct budgetary support and place more emphasis on aid for trade, so that we can invest in things like infrastructure; and let us incentivise low-income countries to remove barriers between each other. however, we should also call on governments of poorer countries to consider doing the same for basic essentials. it is morally wrong for poor people to pay more for food and medicines because of government import tariffs. yes, the eu should open up its markets, but this good work is often undermined if other governments restrict access and keep prices high purely for ideological reasons. so, we should all work together to fight trade tariffs that condemn the poor. we should end government subsidies that incentivise tyranny, and we should always be a friend of those who want to work their way out of poverty, because with our help they will end world hunger.
the next item is the report by marie-hélène aubert, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (com(2007)0602 – c6-0454/2007 – 2007/0223(cns)) (a6-0193/2008).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group wishes to express its full support for mrs aubert’s excellent report. the amendments it proposes clarify and, in some cases, develop various aspects of the commission’s proposal, including some useful additions on force majeure subsidies and sanctions. the emphasis placed on the need for non-discrimination in application of the regulation too is particularly welcome, for there is no doubt that iuu fishing is something that needs to be tackled on a global basis and the eu measures are an important step in that direction. last week i was fortunate to be on a delegation from the committee on fisheries to norway. we were told that in the last three years, and particularly since the introduction of a port state control scheme for the north east atlantic fisheries commission in may 2007, there has been a huge reduction in iuu fishing in the area. that scheme covers all eu member states, as well as norway, iceland, the faroe islands and russia. indeed, norway’s minister for fisheries and coastal affairs spoke highly of the eu’s cooperation in this regard. but there is agreement too that localised measures can have the effect of displacing the problem rather than resolving it. that is why it is especially good to see amendments 5, 6 and 54, which seek to do more to minimise any negative impacts on developing countries. i would add, too, that i believe we have a special responsibility to assist in the improvement of inspection and control systems in developing countries and to do so not only in the cases of those countries with which we have fisheries partnership agreements. further, i hope that the commission, parliament and the council alike will be active in promoting the adoption of a binding convention on port state control at united nations level. preparation has already begun in the fao and, with the right will, could be adopted in march 2009.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i should like to thank my group colleague, marie-hélène aubert for the amount of work she has put in successfully to this report. it is obviously in the interests of all fishing nations and fishing communities to eliminate illegal fisheries. after all, it is the fishing communities themselves who will benefit from the successful conservation of the resource. international cooperation is essential in successfully eliminating illegal fishing by the pirates and organised criminals worldwide who operate in the field. within the common fisheries policy too much attention has been paid to the recent report of the court of auditors on control and enforcement. that report was based on data supposedly gathered from the six most important fishing member states. however, that data that the member states listed included the uk (england and wales). scotland has some 70% of the uk’s fisheries and was not included in that data. i would just like to make the point that there are distinct and separate quota and management and enforcement organisations within scotland. we have made some progress in my fishing nation too in recent years on improving controls. we have the registration of buyers and sellers and we have designated ports of landing. good enforcement is, of course, important, but equally important is a sensible management regime which provides incentives to conserve by guaranteeing that scotland’s fishermen, for example, are guaranteed to benefit in the long term from the conservation measures that they have to apply from time to time. the cfp has simply not provided that kind of guarantee. i was glad to hear you, commissioner borg, say recently that you favour root-and-branch reform of the cfp. i agree. i say: let us return day-to-day management and control of the resource to the fishing nations themselves, who have fishing entitlements in logical fishing areas such as the north sea, and let us abandon the unworkable notion that we can have equal access to waters and resources.
madam president, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is indeed something to be stamped out. there is much, therefore, in this report with which i agree, but i do have to reject its attack on subsidiarity by demanding that the eu should be setting the criminal sanctions and the establishment of an eu core of inspectors. likewise, i oppose the unnecessary additional bureaucracy of applying the regulation to eu-flagged vessels, because these are already subject to the stiff provisions of the common fisheries policy. we do not need more regulation on our own fishermen to deal with third countries which continue with their rogue activities. having seen in recent months some punitive fines on local fishermen in the united kingdom, i for one reject the suggestion that we need more and stiffer regulations and penalties on our own fleets.
i have been told that i am only allowed to take two speakers. i am willing to give you the floor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 5 june 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by duarte freitas, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from the adverse impacts of bottom fishing gears (com(2007)0605 – c6-0453/2007 – 2007/0224(cns)) (a6-0183/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 5 june 2008. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – could the commission clarify to parliament what progress it has made on the 2005 plan to combat and prevent trafficking of humans in europe? concerned by the delay of implementation of this plan by member states, i ask that the commission state the impact this could have on the campaign ‘red card to forced prostitution’ in member states. could it also inform us what campaign it is putting in place to raise awareness of trafficking for prostitution during the uefa 2008 games? i am deeply concerned that, whilst sporting events bring joy to millions worldwide, they are also ruthlessly being used as an opportunity to exploit women and girls. i am shocked that around 100 000 women are trafficked in europe annually for prostitution. what i condemn the most is that girls as young as 14 are affected. we simply cannot let this form of modern day slavery continue. not only is sexual exploitation a crime, it is also a gross violation of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, with his proposals for a mediterranean union, president sarkozy recognised what many knew yet would not admit: that the barcelona process – top-down and driven by european interests – was dead in the water, leading our southern partners to opt out and a widening prosperity gap to emerge on either side of the mediterranean. if europe is serious about reversing the failures of the last decade and generating development and security on its southern shores we must now learn to give as well as take. we must build on the ashes of the barcelona process – a true partnership based on trust, reciprocity and, above all, mutual respect. the mediterranean must not be a cultural dividing line but a meeting place. joint investment in infrastructure – such as ports, sea links and energy grids – will bring our peoples together far more effectively than the high-sounding declarations which characterised the barcelona process. we need investment in people too. the kind of energy which brought together the french and germans after the last big war must be invested in bringing europeans and north africans together to prevent the next. the worst possible mistake the french presidency could make is to commit the european union – and by extension its citizens – to a grandiose project without providing finance for such cooperation for a number of years down the line. and, as mr schulz said, creating a full-blown bureaucratic structure alongside the standing delegations and the external action service need not be the way; a focus on values must be. despite the worsening situation, particularly in egypt and israel, and the fact that we claim such values as the basis of eu foreign policy, references to human rights are mysteriously hard to find in the commission’s proposals. i hope this is something the commission will look at. but, these objections aside, liberals and democrats are pleased to show support for this union for the mediterranean, with one important caveat: pragmatic cooperation on economic issues must not be a substitute for promoting peace in the middle east through the common foreign and security policy envisaged in the lisbon treaty. since the commissioner recognises the link between economic development and peace, what would be a better sign of peace and goodwill towards our arab neighbours than abolishing agricultural tariffs? our much-vaunted free trade agreements have failed to boost living standards because they excluded agriculture and services, which account for two thirds of the gdp in the middle east and north africa. if we do not take the produce of these countries, we will end up taking their people. reforming the cap, providing a level playing field for goods from the southern mediterranean, would go a long way towards tackling the causes of record migration into europe. as the inimitable doctor johnson once said ‘life cannot subsist ... but by reciprocal concessions’. and, for the sake of the success of this union, europe must make the first move.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i have been asked to speak today on euromed. this is the insane attempt to create a pan-mediterranean bloc, joining europe with north africa. to the architects of this scheme, it was a brilliant idea: europe would transfer wealth and technology to north africa and north africa would transfer cheap labour and oil and gas to europe. in reality, it is a disastrous idea. we have already seen what happens when you allow people from poor countries to have freedom of movement into richer ones. can you imagine how much more true this will be if north africa gets this right too? at a time of heightened international terrorism, is it a good idea to have freedom of movement from countries with known al-qa’ida presences? after the terrorist atrocities in madrid and london, one would have thought europe would have learned its lessons. clearly not! let us also talk about oil and gas. the north african countries know europe can be bullied. is it really a good idea to put our energy security in the hands of the military dictatorship in algeria or colonel gadaffi in libya, both of whom are aware of our vulnerability? i strongly urge the eu to cease this scheme. we have already had one imperial mare nostrum. we do not need another.
madam president, i thank all colleagues who have spoken and who have supported the barcelona process over many years. it is a wonderful concept and one that deserves to succeed. i particularly welcome president pöttering’s initiative in forming some structure inside this parliament to push forward the barcelona process, and president sarkozy’s commitment to strengthening the process as well with different aspects. this monday, 9 june, marks the opening of the european union mediterranean university. colleagues, i want you to note that date. we say that our success rests on dialogue, and the european mediterranean process should be exemplified by a successful university. i congratulate the slovenian presidency for offering the seat of the university, but i ask colleagues in all committees – and the commission and the council of presidents – why has no budget been set aside for the university? surely we should not rely on one single presidential state – in this case, slovenia – in furthering the future of the university. if we want the university to succeed, we have to find a budget for the years ahead.
mr president, i would like to thank mr veraldi very much for his report on young farmers. i think that we live in a world now where food production is becoming very important again and we have to look to the future. one of the ways of looking to the future of agriculture is through young farmers. with the reform of the common agricultural policy, we now have the health check to look particularly at things which will help young farmers, and that is reduction in bureaucracy and abolishing quotas so that young farmers can go into milk production, which is one of the ways that they have always got into farming. we also have to look a little bit further towards some sort of venture capital schemes, because one of the problems facing young farmers is they have very little collateral when they want to start farming. very often banks will not give them the necessary cash to start, so i think we have to look forward to that as well. i believe that young farmers can link into food production, they can link into niche markets, and they can produce the type of food in the regions that we want and really link into the market place. i welcome the report and i look forward to supporting young farmers.
in writing. − we note that the pdab 3 contains positive measures, such as: to authorise the total figure of €849m owed by microsoft for abusing their market position; to vote through the funds under the eusf for greece and slovenia; to fully fund the provision of bluetongue vaccine to combat the disease and to provide 50% of the cost of implementation per member state and provide savings on salaries and pensions for the institution's staff. however, we also note that the pdab contains undesirable measures such as the salary increase for the director of the gender institute as well as changes to the establishment plan of the european economic and social committee. we welcome the criticism of the previous two measures in the virrankoski report and, while we are against the decision to adopt the pdab 3 unamended, accept that the raft of positive measures outlined must be voted through this session.
in writing. − conservatives abstained on this report as it forms part of the european objective to develop an area for freedom, security and justice - instead preferring an intergovernmental approach.
in writing. − i welcome my colleague ms aubert’s report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it is in the interests of all fishing communities that iuu is tackled and the eu has a vital role to play in this. nevertheless, the management of fisheries resources should be the responsibility of the fishing nations and the eu must work towards the dismantling of the cfp.
in writing. − mrs aubert’s report on the community system against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a report that i generally support. i agree with a number of the rapporteur’s proposals. to see that member states provide certification of the legality of the fish that their boats catch, for example, appears fair. europe-wide action is required to counter irregular fishing practices and my vote reflects these views.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a growing problem which requires enhanced cooperation between the eu and the international community if it is to be efficiently tackled. to a large extent this proposal by the commission reflects recommendations made by the fisheries committee, specifically ms aubert's first report dealing with iuu. i fully support the main elements of the proposal which include a ban on the importation of iuu fish and the implementation of port controls which would prohibit access of third country vessels suspected of illegal fishing. until recently, the eu has focused solely on the regulation of its own fishermen, concentrating on making sure that they do not flout eu laws while the practice of iuu was essentially ignored. it is encouraging to see that now real efforts are being made by parliament and the commission to address this problem.
in writing. − i would like to support the aubert report and condemn illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − the freitas report relates to vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas. the high seas fall outwith the responsibility of any nations or fisheries organisations and fishing activities have been largely unregulated. it is appropriate that the eu takes action in this area, given the international nature of the fisheries. this distinguishes the high seas from coastal waters, where the most appropriate control bodies are in the fishing nations themselves, not the eu institutions.
in writing. − the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems is essential in order that future generations can enjoy the marine environment.
in writing. − i support the recommendations outlined in jean-pierre audy’s report ‘implementing trade policy through efficient import and export rules and procedures.’ i feel it to be a well balanced report that rightly looks ahead at ec customs law after the lisbon treaty and the us ‘100% scanning law’. indeed, i share the rapporteur’s view that a common approach to the ec customs system would address the inherent difficulties of member states having responsibility for customs implementation. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i welcome the action taken to help greece and slovenia recover from 2007’s forest fires. in pledging eur 89.7 million and eur 8.3 million to greece and slovenia respectively the eu has shown that it is committed to fostering solidarity among its members. i therefore voted in support of reimer böge’s report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − the eu’s regulations on the hygiene of foodstuffs are of importance across the member states. they have however at times proven to be somewhat burdensome on smaller businesses. i welcome the proposals to exempt micro-enterprises and accordingly voted in favour of the schnellhardt report.
in writing. − british conservatives reject much of paragraphs 6 and 8 which refer to esdp missions. we are against esdp in principle and do not regard the eu as the appropriate organisation to be undertaking security missions in far-off areas of potential conflict. furthermore we are disappointed that nato's bucharest summit did not extend the invitation for georgia to join nato's membership action plan.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this report. i did vote for green amendment 7 that complains of president sarkozy’s ‘sales offensive on nuclear technology worldwide’. i am afraid this macho technology drives far too much of french foreign policy. the rumour is that the reason france is the only member state not to have established diplomatic relations with north korea is not through any concern with human rights but because of a failure in 2001 of the then south korean government to promise the french nuclear industry a disproportionate share of the nuclear contracts associated with the kedo project to build two light water reactors in north korea in exchange for the freezing of their graphite-moderated reactor at taechon capable of producing weapons-grade plutonium. france’s nuclear obsession makes us all less safe.
in writing. − i fully support my own group’s amendment 7 to the saryusz-wolski report expressing concern at president sarkozy’s sales offensive on nuclear technology worldwide, which could lead to enhanced nuclear proliferation. the people of scotland take a huge interest in nuclear issues, given that the uk’s nuclear weapons are based on our territory. scotland rejects the london government’s plans to build a new generation of nuclear weapons and i fully support the scottish government’s work to ensure these weapons do not come into existence.
in writing. − mr saryusz-wolski’s report on the annual report on the cfsp seeks to define the common values and priorities regarding europe’s global role. with the lisbon treaty, the eu would have a more effective and coherent voice on international affairs and i welcome the fact that the report deals with the treaty’s contribution in this domain. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − british conservatives do not wish to see british foreign policy subsumed by the eu. we reject the treaty of lisbon, any idea of an eu 'foreign minister' or an eu seat on the un security council, and any eu role in defence. we therefore voted against the report. of course we welcome opportunities for 27 nations to speak with one voice where this is wholly consistent with british foreign policy interests. similarly, we support better coordinated humanitarian action, and a more robust approach in dealing with abhorrent regimes in zimbabwe, burma, and elsewhere.
in writing. − we generally vote against eu legislation and indeed voted against this report as a whole. however, we felt that there were a number of amendments we could vote for. we voted yes to amendments 10 and 12, as they reject the militarisation of the eu. we too oppose the militarisation of the eu. these amendments did not call on the commission to act, nor did they acknowledge the authority of the commission or eu. they were simple statements that happened to agree with us on this particular question. therefore, we could vote for these two amendments without compromising our overall stance to both this report as a whole and eu legislation in general.
in writing. − british labour meps voted in favour of this report which looks at the implementation of the european security strategy and the continuing role of esdp missions. in particular labour meps welcome the emphasis in this report on the better functioning of civilian esdp missions. labour meps voted against the text of paragraph 39 looking at the role of eurocorps. while the uk is not involved in eurocorps, and this force has never been used, labour meps feel it important to emphasise that there are no standing forces under permanent eu command, and we believe that there is no need for such structures.
in writing. − i welcome mr kuhne’s report on the annual report on the implementation of the european security strategy and esdp. i would agree with the rapporteur that the lisbon treaty reinforces the union’s powers by giving the high representative for the common foreign and security policy a more important role. the international nature of the security issues member states face requires greater european cooperation. i would therefore welcome the introduction of a solidarity clause among member states on such issues. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i wish to raise the issue in the context of this debate of us missile defence plans, particularly in respect to the czech republic. two thirds of the czech population are opposed to the building of a radar installation close to prague as part of these plans. two czech peace activists have been on hunger strike for three weeks in protest at the czech government’s obstinate support for these plans, despite little evidence that they will do other than make europe’s security worse rather than better. i welcome the fact that these two are now being joined by key political figures each fasting for 24 hours. i agree with them that the eu needs to reach a common position on the installation of these star war technologies in europe. we need an urgent debate in this chamber with the council. i hope the president will push for this next month.
in writing. − british labour meps are delighted to have voted in favour of this resolution in advance of the eu-us summit on the 10th of june. we hope that this resolution will aid in making this summit a productive one. in particular labour meps welcome the call made for the eu and us to work closely together on a wide range of common policy challenges; the call for the eu and us to place the millennium development goals at the heart of international development policy is also one which labour meps wholeheartedly support. british labour meps voted to abstain on amendment 8, as we believe that this text does not offer a balanced approach to this issue. we believe that discussions must also focus on russia's obligations, and include wider international disarmament efforts, as explicitly recommended in the successful socialist group amendment to the european security and defence policy report, also voted today.
in writing. − the upcoming us presidential election is an opportunity to move away from the type of foreign policy practised under the bush administration. such a change should involve europe and the eu should be looking to strengthen the eu-us partnership, especially when addressing global challenges such as climate change and poverty. i support mr wiersma’s motion for a resolution.
in writing. − british conservatives are strong supporters of the transatlantic relationship; however, we do not agree on redefining this as a relationship between the eu and the us, particularly in defence matters, and we therefore reject much of paragraph 16.
in writing. − the veraldi report on the future of young farmers highlights a number of important issues which are of relevance across the eu’s rural areas. the report also recognises that farming methods rooted in specific geographical areas and cultural traditions in europe should be conserved, improved and promoted. i wholeheartedly endorse those sentiments and consider that they can be applied across the eu’s workload.
in writing. − encouraging young people into the farming sector is essential to guarantee the future of the farming industry. support should be given to newcomers in the farming sector including young farmers. i support the general direction of the veraldi report on the future for young farmers under the ongoing reform of the cap and voted accordingly.
in writing. − statistics show that rural populations across europe are simultaneously decreasing and ageing. moreover, the percentage of farms currently managed by young people is extremely low. this is a worrying trend which is affecting all member states. young people are not considering farming as a career option because, in many cases, issues such as the succession of farms and difficulties associated with obtaining credit simply outweigh the benefits of starting out. this insightful report addresses the most important issues which are deterring young people from entering into farming and suggests some practical solutions for dealing with these problems. after all, if we wish to secure the stability and development of europe's agriculture sector, we must provide young people with incentives to enter into farming and remove the obstacles which they face. the report also recognises that, like any other modern industry, farming needs to be competitive, efficient and able to respond and adapt to market demands. we need to take measures which support and encourage young people in this context, as the next generation of farmers are the key to a dynamic and innovative european agriculture sector.
in writing. − i will vote in favour of this report but i must highlight that amendment 35 is unacceptable to me and i and the british labour delegation will vote against this particular amendment. sustainable rural development is the key to maintaining our countryside and the traditional way of life enjoyed by our rural communities. indeed, on the issue of modulation, members may recall that it was only british labour meps who supported concerted efforts to change our priorities away from direct payments and into sustainable rural development. farmers have a key role to play in delivering rural sustainability and development, but they are not the only people involved in that delivery, which is why i cannot support amendment 35. this parliament has developed a habit of constantly demanding direct payments to farmers and no doubt it will do the same when we discuss the cap health check in the near future. i think those of us who believe that things need to change in this regard, away from a system that rewards inefficiency at the expense of efficient agriculture, are those who truly believe in sustainable rural development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the hutchinson report. the work that this parliament has done over the decades together with the acp countries is something that we as an institution can regard with some satisfaction.
in writing. − i welcome alain hutchinson’s report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2007. greater involvement of parliaments and civil society can improve and help intensify the acp-eu relationship. it is through such cooperation that we can improve the quality of development assistance and its targeting. i therefore voted in favour of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − the pittella report, which i supported, highlights the importance of culture, habits and languages in consumer choices and protection for financial products. the diverse cultures, habits and languages of the eu deserve respect in all areas of the union’s work and are essential if the european institutions’ work is to gain public support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the karas report on retail financial services in the single market. my own country, scotland, is home to a number of world class financial companies and they can benefit from access across the internal market. nevertheless, respect must be had for the different financial cultures and traditions of the eu’s nations and i believe that the karas report strikes the right balance in recognising the need for subsidiarity in this area.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to propose that the title ‘preparation for the european council’ be expanded to: ‘preparation for the european council after the irish referendum’.
mr president, having been rapporteur on the lisbon treaty, i should like to support this proposal. we must have a wide-ranging debate to show that we are listening both to the views expressed by the irish people and to the views expressed in every other member state, most of which, if not all of which, wish to proceed with this treaty.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the 862 415 irish people who voted ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty in last thursday’s referendum. they voted for freedom, democracy and common sense. were the british people to be allowed a referendum, they would undoubtedly vote ‘no’ in even greater numbers than the irish. given the chance, many of the other european nations would also vote ‘no’, just as the french and the dutch proved in 2005. with breathtaking arrogance and disregard for democracy, the european political elite intend to bulldoze onwards with the ratification of the treaty. the treaty is dead but the eu refuses to bury it. the eu’s ongoing love affair with the treaty is an act of political necrophilia. but the body is beginning to stink and, the longer it is unburied, the worse the stench is going to get. we must bury the treaty. it is polluting the political atmosphere.
mr president, europe’s bees face extinction within a decade. diseases and viruses have already wiped out one third of the colonies in america and now threaten our own. the american situation offers a dangerous snapshot of what we potentially face in europe unless we act now. at least 70 crops that contribute significantly to the overall economy depend directly on pollination by the bees. the us is having to import bees to make up the losses. in the current climate there are serious questions over the eu’s capacity to produce enough food to satisfy demand, and the implications of a similar outbreak here would be disastrous. beekeepers across europe already know about the threat caused by the varroa mites that have decimated bee colonies. they are having to deal with colony collapse disorder, which is when hives are systematically abandoned and the bees effectively disappear off the face of the earth. we need to provide funding and proper scientific research in this area. the uk government currently provides just gbp 250 000 towards bee research. that is a drop in the ocean for such an important issue. bees are an integral part of the food chain: without bees, beekeepers, crops, fruit and nuts will be adversely affected.
mr president, the commission is currently examining complaints made by certain private businesses in spain, france and italy against cooperatives, and against the cooperative movement as regards its statute and tax treatment. i would urge the commission, in examining that complaint, to take due account of the particular needs and characteristics of cooperative movements. they are not like profit-making shareholder organisations. a cooperative is owned by its members and profits are distributed equally, not paid out simply to shareholders. the european union recognised the particular nature of the cooperative movement in 2003 in adopting the regulation on the statute for a european cooperative society. i would urge the commission to take due account of that and thereby earn the gratitude of the 55 million people in europe employed by cooperatives and the 163 million people who are members of them.
a uachtaráin, ní vóta in aghaidh na heorpa an vóta a chaith éireannaigh in aghaidh chonradh liospóin an déardaoin seo a chuaigh thart. is san aontas eorpach atá áit na héireann. tháinig sochair shóisialta agus eacnamaíochta chuig éirinn – thuaidh agus theas – mar gheall ar bhallraíocht na héireann. bhí daoine buartha faoi laghdú ghuth na héireann agus tíortha beaga eile san aontas eorpach, faoi neodracht agus cúrsaí míleata, faoi chearta na n-oibrithe agus seirbhísí poiblí. ardaíodh na buarthaí seo, ní amháin ag na tairseacha ach sna pobalbhreitheanna freisin a foilsíodh i gcaitheamh an fheachtais. is mór, fosta, a gceart uathoibríoch chun reifrinn ar athruithe suntasacha amach anseo. ardaíodh cuid de na téamaí céanna sa fhrainc agus san ísiltír cheana féin. caithfimid déileáil leis na buarthaí sin.
rapporteur. − madam president, following your ruling that there is no time for points of order, i will continue with my speech on the waste framework directive. it is a little difficult to do so against this background, but i will persevere. since certain comments have been made on this point in the british press recently, may i begin by drawing attention once again to my declaration of interests, which i made on the record, and which cites my membership of the environmental advisory board of shanks plc. that company operates a wide range of waste technologies in britain and on the continent, and the primary purpose of its environmental advisory board is to provide independent audits of the operation of its plants. my fellow board members include the chairman of the eu scientific advisory committee on emerging and newly identified health risks and a member of the green alliance. like many members, i value the opportunity this kind of experience has given me to learn at close hand about the issues and problems facing this industry and those who work in it. turning to the directive, it has been a long and tortuous road to this second reading and i congratulate those of my colleagues who have accompanied me on it to the very end. the issue is a very important one. various judgments in the court of justice regarding the status of waste destined for treatment in energy-from-waste plants needed to be clarified. new definitions were needed. two existing directives on hazardous waste and on waste oils were repealed and their provisions transferred to the waste framework directive. however, the committee was not content with those original proposals, and went on to transform the directive from a technical one into a campaigning one. i congratulate my colleagues on that. i have to say that the mood in the council was very bleak, possibly mirroring our economic times. there was much resistance to what we wanted to do and the council drove a very hard bargain, but we achieved the following. firstly, we have added recycling targets to the text. that is a very significant achievement since these were not in the original proposal, and this is the first time that recycling targets for household waste have appeared in eu legislation. it is entirely due to parliament that they are there. the new article 8a requires member states to take the necessary measures designed to achieve an overall recycling rate of 50% by 2020 for paper, metal, plastic and glass from household and similar waste. there are some member states, such as germany, for which this is a conservative target, but there are many for which it is very demanding, and we need to take them into account too. the same article also requires that by 2020 70% of construction and demolition waste be recycled. the greens and their supporters are putting it about that the targets are not enforceable. they may even believe that, but they are – extraordinarily – rejecting their own achievement. the commission has issued a statement to help them, and mr dimas will confirm this. the statement says quite clearly that if in 2020 the targets are not achieved, this will be a serious indication for the commission that a member state has not taken the necessary measures designed to achieve the targets. on this basis, supported by conclusions in the tri-annual national progress reports, the commission can take member states to court for non-compliance with the requirements of the directive. it may be important to the greens not to be happy, because greens are eternal campaigners, but they should take some account of what the commission has said in that statement. secondly, we have added new provisions on the prevention of waste, in article 8a. these will mean that the commission has to report on the evolution of eu waste generation and the scope for waste prevention by 2011, and by 2014 must produce proposals for waste prevention, and decoupling objectives for 2020. it proved impossible to get the council or the commission to agree to quantitative waste prevention targets in this directive, partly because the data necessary for those targets is missing, but parliament has, through its amendments, created momentum for future policy that may contain waste prevention targets. the new article therefore represents a significant achievement. it is something for our successors to build on. we cannot do everything in this directive, but have to hand things on to our successors in the next decade. thirdly, we have firmly placed the famous eu waste hierarchy in eu law for the first time. we have been talking about this for years, but if you look at eu law it is not there. however, it will be soon, and we can celebrate a minor victory in getting the council to agree that the hierarchy shall apply ‘as a priority order’ in waste prevention and management legislation. fourthly, we have secured agreement to place better emphasis on hazardous waste management, as several colleagues wanted. fifthly, we have also ensured that priority will continue to be given to the regeneration of waste oils – although there was no support for a policy, which i know some colleagues wanted, that would have made regeneration mandatory in all member states. we secured council support for the amendment put forward by mrs hennicot-schoepges and colleagues designed to make it easier for smes to use the waste list, and we also obtained support for a new article on biowaste. in conclusion, the directive specifies the energy efficiency criteria for incineration, with energy recovery to be classed as a recovery operation rather than disposal. that is the best deal available. anyone who thinks that we could get anything better by going to conciliation would be deceiving themselves. in the famous words of jack nicholson, ‘this is as good as it gets’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, caroline jackson referred to a quotation i think from jack nicholson. knowing her golfing prowess, i thought it might have been from jack nicklaus, but no doubt they would have had the same sort of quotation: ‘this is about as good as it gets’. that is a great tribute to our rapporteur and i salute her on behalf of our group. it is necessary that we support her and take action. it is not as good as we might have envisaged it being at one point. however, we have made enormous progress. commissioner, it is up to you now to ensure that it is implemented and to bring forward the subsequent provisions on prevention with your target of 2014. i know you will put this process in motion and that is important too. it is important because we have had a whole raft of waste proposals in my time in this parliament: we have dealt with vehicles, electrical and electronic equipment, batteries, packaging and so forth. however, waste goes on rising; it rises faster than the growth of our economies. it grows fastest in some areas like municipal waste, and that is why we need to take action. my own country sets one of the worst examples in terms of waste. the netherlands we salute as setting the best example. however, we all need to catch up. we all need to have more recycling so as to meet the terms of the hierarchy: we need to meet the recycling targets and prevention targets and so forth. i believe that this is a measure which will at least send us down that road in a better frame of mind than we have shown in the past with our wasteful economy, wasteful society and wasteful policies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank mrs jackson. we may have ended up in disagreement about the tax, but i think that there is no doubt that there has been excellent cooperation throughout the discussions. we are not happy today – i wish we were – and i would like to give some of the reasons why we are not happy with the compromise. we have supported 30 of the compromise amendments and we have tabled others to try and strengthen the compromise in the areas of hazardous waste, end of waste, by-products and separate collection of biowaste. but from the very start, the main issues for us were the adoption of binding targets on waste reduction and recycling and opposition to the reclassification of incineration as energy recovery. the final compromise does not have a legally binding target for waste reduction. a study on waste prevention is no alternative to stabilisation measures; the continuous growth in waste is unsustainable and without this measure it will continue to grow. although recycling and reuse targets have been set at 50% and 70% and the member states are legally obliged to put measures in place to achieve these targets, the targets themselves are not binding. i am grateful for the explanation that we have had from mr dimas, but why was there such a debate over the wording of this? the reason was to avoid making those targets binding. manufacturing and industrial waste, which have a huge potential for reuse and recycling, have been left out altogether. incineration cannot be viewed as a waste management option on a par with recycling and reuse; this will just attract further investment into incinerators and directly undermine the waste hierarchy. if the weak compromise is adopted, we will have missed the opportunity to ensure real eu action and leadership on waste policy when we so desperately need it.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, gabhaim buíochas le bean jackson as an obair a rinne sí. rinneamar obair mhaith le chéile ag feabhsú chéad togra an choimisiúin, ach ní aontaímid ar gach rud. beidh imní ar chuid mhór daoine fud fad an aontais faoin mholadh loisceoirí a ‘athbhrandáil’ mar chineál téarnaimh má bhaineann siad critéir ar leith éifeachtachta amach. táimid in aghaidh ‘athbhrandáil’ loiscthe go fóill agus chuireamar síos leasú chun seo a scriosadh. ó thaobh athchúrsála de, leagann an margadh molta is déanaí spriocanna amach a d’fhéadfadh a bheith deacair le cur i bhfeidhm de dheasca neamhchruinneas foclaíochta a mhaíonn: “déanfaidh na ballstáit bearta riachtanacha deartha chun spriocanna athchúrsála a bhaint amach. ” éilíonn reachtaíocht mhaith go mbeimis níos beaichte lenár bhfoclaíocht ar spriocanna agus nach bhfágaimid léirmhíniú faoi chúram chúirt bhreithiúnais na heorpa. b’fhearr linn foclaíocht an choiste a chosaint agus a choinneáil, mar sin de. laghdaíodh moltaí ar dhramhaíl a chosc go dtí an pointe nach mbeidh siad ábalta ionchur substainteach go leor a dhéanamh nó nach mbeidh siad in ann cuidiú le ballstáit chun dramhaíl seo acu a chobhsú nó a laghdú. ciallaíonn laige na tagartha do spriocanna coisc nach bhfuil tionscnamh coisc comhchuibhithe cumhdaithe le táscairí i reachtaíocht go fóill. mar sin de, is féidir linn cuid den obair a rinneamar le chéile a chomhshíniú. ach maidir le codanna eile, sílimid go gcaithfidh muid leasuithe a chur síos. ba mhaith liom, uair amháin eile, mo bhuíochas a ghabháil le bean jackson as an dóigh oscailte agus cuimisitheach a ndeachaigh sí i dteagmháil leis na scáthrapóirtéirí. (bualadh bos)
madam president, this agreement is as good as it gets, the rapporteur says, and i pay credit to what she has achieved. there are gains to be made at 3 o’clock in the morning during a conciliation session that cannot be achieved at other times during the negotiating process. we all recognise that the size of our waste mountain needs to be reduced. one british supermarket has recently announced that by 2012 it intends to reduce the use of packaging by 25% and its use of carrier bags by 33%. it wants to ensure that waste food is converted to energy by anaerobic digestion. it wants to restrict the number of materials used in packaging to just four which are easy to recycle or compost and it wants to print simple symbols on all packaging to make it easy for customers to recycle or compost their waste. now all this is a matter of political will. reducing waste is a matter of political will and that will can be strengthened by european union law. i suspect that we could have got the council to at least agree to bring forward the date by which it will publish proposals for waste reduction from 2014 to a few years earlier. parliament has done well. it could, perhaps, have done better.
madam president, across europe, every member state is struggling with runaway energy prices. therefore seeing waste as potentially important fuel is, i believe, both sensible and necessary. it is surely a win-win situation – both dealing with our massive stockpiles of waste and providing an alternative energy supply source, particularly as we face an energy crisis and increasing dependence upon insecure foreign supplies of oil. i therefore do not therefore understand the reticence of some in facing up to the obvious advantage of promoting energy from waste. i fear some colleagues feel so precious about their recycling and anti-incineration dogmas that they would sacrifice the opportunity of heat and power from waste. in that, i have to say, i believe they are profoundly mistaken. on a related note, could i say that i very strongly favour maximising the definition of ‘recovery’ under the directive, making it indisputably clear that energy from waste represents recovery, not disposal, of waste. we should particularly apply that to our agricultural sector, where there is much opportunity in that regard.
rapporteur. − madam president, just briefly i would like to thank all those colleagues who took part in the debate. there is only one colleague that i want to respond to, and that is mr davies – hereinafter known as ‘chris ‘newsnight’ davies’, for the programme that he likes appearing on – who said that i gave in too easily in the council. i hope that my colleagues will reinforce me when i say that i did not give in too easily and that i have never given in easily on anything. as mrs laperrouze will attest on the water issue, the council is getting increasingly difficult to negotiate with. as the recession bites, it realises that this legislation is going to cost money and it is reluctant to accept parliament’s amendments. we have a choice tomorrow morning. we can agree to the package of amendments before us and i hope very much that is what will happen. we can vote through some major amendments, for example on by-products, which will mean that the package falls and we all go into conciliation. won’t that be fun! or we can agree perhaps to some minor amendment, or to an amendment which is characterised by its movers as minor, such as amendment 88 on which i await the commission’s opinion, perhaps overnight. i think it is very doubtful indeed as to whether the council will accept any amendments, however minor, so i am in favour of the package itself, unamended. after all, the package must mean something, otherwise why did the council fight so strongly over it? it is not a meaningless package as the greens are trying to make out; it is a package with teeth. i would like in conclusion to thank the shadows – caroline jackson and the shadows, it sounds like a 1960s band – for their cooperation, without necessarily wishing to see them again and again and again in conciliation. i think we ought to try to put this issue to bed tomorrow morning.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs laperrouze. she has been an outstanding rapporteur and i have very much enjoyed working with her. i am delighted that the commission has said that it will endorse this report. the proposed directive – and i will not go over all the ground that mrs laperrouze has covered, but i have to add some of my own comments – a daughter directive to the water framework directive – ensures the final piece of legislation for good-quality water for different member states. together with the rapporteur, the council and commission, we have had a lot of discussions, and i think we have finally agreed on a compromise package on which we are all in agreement. i urge – as did the rapporteur – everyone to vote in favour of it. i believe it is a balanced package: the environment will be protected, the water quality of our citizens will be increased, and the burden on the economy will be reasonable – and i think that is also important. through the negotiations we had many discussions with ngos and industry and came up with a proposal which is excellent. the proposal limits the concentration of chemical substances, hazardous groups including heavy metals, some pesticides and other hazardous chemicals in surface water. it is based very much on the principle of preventative actions. the member states may designate – as the rapporteur said – mixing zones, where concentrations of chemical substances may exceed the relevant environmental quality standards under certain circumstances, but of course they will have to reach and be monitored with great care. we have zones which may be designated as mixing zones in transboundary water bodies – an excellent piece of legislation. it says here that member states shall collect information, including maps. i think we might have difficulty in getting the maps, but nevertheless we will sort that out. it provides for the establishment of a river basin management plan, dredging and shipping – even this leads to discharges and emissions. losses of priority substances can now take place, providing it reaches the water framework directive. ladies and gentlemen, i leave you with one last thought. water is the staff of life – this directive is so important. even on mars, it is the staff of life.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the rapporteur is a member of my group and a close colleague, the house will understand if i defend her agreement. perhaps we could have done more, perhaps another chemical here or there could have been included in the package, but scientific opinion is divided; political will is not always strong. in the words of the previous rapporteur, this can reasonably be described as ‘as good as it gets’. i think water policy is one of the successes of european environment policy. i think that we should pay tribute to the work of the commission over the years and indeed to mrs lienemann for her work on the water framework directive some seven years ago. even when no transboundary issues are involved, the collective determination to address the pollution of both past and present years has brought about levels of investment to secure improvement in water quality that have far exceeded what would have been achieved if member states had been left to act in isolation. the laws we have put in place are clear in this instance. pollution is identifiable and measurable. the requirements to prevent it are enforceable and this legislation takes us a step forward by introducing further prohibitions on a range of chemicals, pesticides, pollutants that present a risk to aquatic and indeed human life. but we also see reports from the european environment agency that there are many instances of member states still failing to enforce the legislation as effectively and as adequately as should be the case. so on this note of agreement across the house about the nature of this legislation and the positive direction in which europe is going when it comes to water quality, let us also look to the commission to say, ‘you have the powers to investigate, to act and to enforce – please use them’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, on behalf of my group i would like first of all to congratulate the commissioner on his leadership of the customs function within the commission. i should also like to say that we have a very important opportunity this evening not only to recognise, as he says, the considerable achievements of the commission and indeed all the customs authorities across the member states on this 40th anniversary, but also to look forward. i just want to reassure him that from our side of the house we will certainly give full support to the strategy that he is talking about. you will see from the resolution that we have also called upon member states in particular to declare their support for it and to put the necessary resources behind that very important project. as he said in his speech, the customs forces are the authorities whose services are very much the unsung heroes of the internal market, but they are certainly not forgotten in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. as he will know, we have taken particular interest in the dossiers, but not only that: just as he has done over the last week, on our missions around the european union and now further afield, particularly in china recently, we have also regularly been to visit customs authorities to get a sense of their priorities and the problems they are facing on the ground; so we are much engaged with that. i just want to make a couple of points today about the things that we need to do. it seems to me that one of the tasks we need to engage in together is to get businesses to cooperate much more with customs in dealing with counterfeit and illegal products. customs need information to be able to stop shipments. they need intelligence. i think businesses are not sufficiently aware of the importance of that, of giving that information. secondly, given the increasing scale of trade, particularly from countries like china, we really have to ask member states to look seriously at whether they have the resources to deal with very large inflows of goods that are coming in and to inspect and deal with counterfeits and products that are trying to evade the customs system. but thank you very much indeed, commissioner, for all that you are doing in this field.
mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection with responsibility for customs policy, i certainly welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate to mark 40 years of the customs union. the imco committee, as has already been said, attaches great importance to our customs work, because it is the pragmatic and practical face of the european union’s work. without doubt the customs union has helped increase the competitiveness of eu business by simplifying and getting rid of unnecessary rules for business and legitimate traders. 175 million customs declarations are handled annually, with an average customs clearance taking only two minutes. but there is still more to do. smes need more help to minimise the difficulties they face when trading in europe. paperless customs, centralised clearance and a single window will facilitate and support our smes, but it must of course be rigorously pursued by member states if we are to reap the benefits. this is also an opportunity to step up and reinforce our commitment to fighting the influx and flood of pirated and counterfeit goods. fake goods and fake medicines not only undermine eu business, they are a grave and ever-present threat to our consumers’ health and safety, an issue which the consumer protection committee is deeply concerned about. so, working with third countries and in particular china, we want to improve the interception of dangerous and illegal goods; but ultimately we need to make our customs union work better. member states are called upon this evening to take their responsibilities more seriously for implementation and enforcement and to back this up with serious resources. commissioner, you can continue to rely on us in the imco committee to work with you to improve the customs union as a cornerstone of the internal market and of course as a central element for the functioning and success of the eu economy. we must ensure that our 27 member states work together more closely: that they liaise, share information and make europe work better and more smoothly for legitimate business; and that we do crack down on the serious and growing problem of counterfeit and pirated goods entering our market.
i scríbhinn. – ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh thuarascáil an uasail harangozó maidir le tionchar an bheartais chomhtháthaithe ar imeascadh pobal agus grúpaí leochaileacha. tá méadú ar an ghlór atá ag iarraidh go gcuirfear san áireamh na hionchais dheacra atá roimh limistéir nó roimh cheantair a bhfuil a ndaonra ar imeall na cinnteoireachta agus na forbraíochta eacnamaíochta príomhshrutha. ó mo thoghlach féin, tá a fhios agam na deacrachtaí, ní amháin, atá ag ceantair uirbeacha faoi mhíbhuntáiste, ach atá ag ceantair fhorimeallacha i gcontaetha teorann na héireann. is minic a bhíonn na ceantair thuaithe úd ag iarraidh deacrachtaí a shárú chun infheistíocht i ngnó nó i mbonneagar a chinntiú. ba chóir go mbeadh “tréigean na tuaithe”, mar atá luaite sa tuarascáil seo, ina thosaíocht do pholaiteoirí. léiríonn an tuasal harangozó go soiléir ról díobh siúd a bhíonn ag feirmeoireacht ar fheirmeacha beaga agus ar fheirmeacha meánmhéide chun na pobail tuaithe sin a chothú. níor chóir go dtabharfaí ísliú céime do na pobail tuaithe maidir leis an bheartas comhtháthaithe agus is gá idirnasc níos mó a chur i bhfeidhm idir forbairt tuaithe agus forbairt réigiúnach sa troid in aghaidh eisiaimh shóisialta. is fadhb phraiticiúil é cianúlas ó líonraí cumarsáide agus iompair ar gá dul i ngleic leis.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing thanks to the rapporteur on this issue for the integrity and openness with which he has approached the questions. i should also like to thank our colleagues, where we have tried our best to find a common approach, recognising the need to treat people as individuals in the process of return and the need for due process and clarity in the law. discussions with the council have shown clearly the shortfalls existing in some member states for their own citizens at present, especially in relation to legal aid – crucial if people are to have access to the law and some defence against those who have the power – and also where effective systems are not in place to adequately represent lone children and young people in their own right. this has created certain problems in the discussions with the council. i regret that, after such long negotiations, my group cannot accept the negotiated position because, while we do not object in theory to such a directive, it certainly does not meet the standards that we set at the beginning. why not? because for us it entrenches many of the problems we have been fighting in our own member states. one of the issues is the length of detention. while the proposed directive puts limits on that, we know what long periods of detention do to the mental health of individuals and to children who are detained. we have seen it for ourselves, and the research is there. we have seen the conditions in which many people are kept and while the proposed directive makes clear that detention centres should not be prisons, it is not always clear to us what the difference is between those centres and prisons. we also have questions about the entry ban, and article 9 makes clear it should be the general rule for anybody who is returned involuntarily. so member states signing up will have to answer questions like that of one my constituents, serwa nouri yousef, who has refugee status, who is now eight months pregnant and whose husband has been forcibly returned to iraq and is now missing. under this directive he would also face an entry ban. so what happens to family life, despite the claims to humanitarian protection? we also have questions surrounding article 3(c) about where people should be returned to, and feel that, if the reference to ‘other arrangements’ includes the metaphorical handshakes that we have seen in the past between mr berlusconi and gadafi, this is unacceptable as such accords are made outside of written public agreements.
mr president, this proposal would make it much more difficult for member states to remove illegal immigrants and return them to their own countries. to what extent will it affect the united kingdom and particularly my constituency, london? london already bears a disproportionate burden of legal and illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. it is stated that britain has not opted into this area of community law and the inference is that it will not affect us – but is that true? once illegal immigrants have been allowed to stay in member states, they can then travel to other eu member states. they could only be excluded on the grounds that they pose an actual threat to security, public health or public policy. and who in the uk, i wonder, is going to enforce that? the british immigration and asylum systems are in total chaos. if britain indeed is opted out of this legislation, then european illegal immigrants may not have entry by the front door, but this proposal gives them the key to the back door. then of course there is the whole issue of the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental human rights. could human rights legislation be used to enforce parts of this proposal in britain? who knows? for that will be decided not by the british government or parliament or courts, but by the european court of justice.
madam president, i have no hesitation in voting for this directive, not because it is ideal, but because it raises standards in some member states. and indeed, an assessment of the value of this directive comes, perversely, from the very fact that the uk is not opting into it. it does not want to be constrained by the higher standards in the directive, not least the time limits and the conditions on detention, such as the separation of immigration detainees from convicted criminals, which does not always happen in the uk at present, and the fact that coercive measures must be proportional and respect fundamental rights and the dignity of the individual, all valuable elements in this text. there has been a lot of disinformation and i am sorry that someone wrongly briefed the president of bolivia who wrote in the british newspaper the guardian yesterday. eighteen months is not the standard detention time. the directive says it should not exceed six months except where, in spite of all reasonable efforts by member states, the removal operation is likely to last longer due to a lack of cooperation by the person concerned or delays in getting documentation from a third country. i think that the provisions on taking account of the best interests of the child, on family life, on the state of health, on the principle of non-refoulement and on special provisions for unaccompanied minors are particularly valuable and will help migrants under threat of removal. the provisions on reasons for detention and appeals and judicial review are crucial. but while intending to support this imperfect but necessary directive in order to raise standards, i must stress that it is only one part of the picture. we must have a fair refugee acceptance system and a proper legal immigration policy.
mr president, i rise on rule 103(2). in response to the historic and – some would say – joyous expression of democratic will in ireland last week, you said yesterday from the chair that ‘it remains our goal to see the lisbon treaty enter into force before the elections of next year. provided that you agree to this, i shall resolutely defend these principles in the council at the end of the week’. (applause from members of other groups) you have asked us for a mandate. i would suggest to the house that simply having the mandate of the conference of presidents is not enough for this and that we ought – under rule 103, which clearly says that ‘parliament shall decide whether or not to wind up the debate with a resolution’ – to finish our debate tomorrow with president barroso with a vote to see whether we should give you that mandate or not and to see whether members of this so-called democratic chamber are prepared to respect the irish result and to find out whether ‘no’ really means ‘no’. (applause from members of the ind/dem group)
mr president, i rise on rule 9, specifically annex i, article 1. i did try to catch the eye last night in the debate, i am afraid to no avail. there were only three or four people in the chamber. the rapporteur, mrs jackson, has been getting money from a recycling company or a waste-disposal company, which was undeclared, when she was actually rapporteur of this committee. i find this a little fishy, even by the standards of this house, so i do not think she was the right and proper person to be rapporteur for this report.
rapporteur. − mr president, i made a full statement about this last night. mr bloom may not have been able to hear it because his colleague, mr batten, was trying to get the attention of the house on the question of the referendum and spoke throughout the early part of my speech. i made a full declaration at that point. there is a full declaration in the register of members’ interests. i have referred to this in the debates in the environment committee. i am a member of the environmental advisory board of a company called shanks plc in the uk and have been for the past three years. the environmental advisory board includes amongst its members a member of the green alliance and the chairman of one of the eu scientific advisory committees. the environmental advisory board is solely concerned with the environmental audit performance of the company’s sites within the terms of eu legislation. i am completely open about that and always have been. i feel that my experience on the board has helped me put together a reasonable report which does not favour any particular sort of waste treatment. i hope that my colleagues will support me when i say that i have always been open about this and that i have tried to put together a balanced report, taking account of all points of view in the parliament. (loud applause)
mr president, i do not care for the way some of these votes are going. can i suggest, in the light of our reaction to the french, dutch and irish referendums, that we simply disregard the votes and carry on as we wanted?
mr president, i am sorry to interrupt the voting at the end but i think there was one error. we have been checking during the course of the votes and i think all the groups agree that you may mistakenly have announced that amendment 27 was carried. amendment 27 could not have been carried. i would be grateful if you could go back to that and ensure that it was rejected. the point is that you did not then go on to the next amendment.
mr president, i rise to explain the vote that i made on the caroline jackson report, but before doing so i want to pay tribute to my conservative colleague, caroline jackson, and the work she has done on this excellent report. the provision for waste disposal is absolutely vital in every european country, not least my own, and i think this is a happy compromise. it is one of those rare instances where europe can act together in this way. there are not many of them and maybe the people of ireland were saying something about that in the decision in the referendum which they recently made. but this is a good report. i will hope it will inspire the british government to take a lead in these matters. that will certainly be the case if in hopefully two years time in britain we have a conservative government: mr cameron, our leader, has made it absolutely clear that green issues will be at the forefront of our affairs and therefore this vote today will set a good example, as indeed would be a good example the way conservative members of the european parliament have voted.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because, having worked for 18 years combating poverty and social exclusion, i strongly support the designation of 2010 as a european year on this issue. it is totally unacceptable that 78 million people in europe are currently living at risk of poverty. it is shocking that in this day and age children and the elderly are unable to feed themselves or keep themselves warm across many member states. recent figures show a widening gap between the richest and poorest families in some countries as a result of the unequal distribution of european economic progress. i hope that in this year the commission will focus on regions where poverty and social exclusion are at their most acute. for example, a recent report by channel 4 in the uk highlighted that the region i represent, the west midlands, has the second-highest level of poverty and the second-lowest standard of living nationwide. therefore, whilst i welcome this initiative because it will raise awareness of poverty and social exclusion, i am disappointed that it does not offer any clear solutions on the directions that member states need to take and i believe that unless this year is used as platform to move forward, it will be just another talking shop, a missed opportunity to actually make a difference on a very important issue.
mr president, i supported this report because of course all of us are in favour of motherhood and apple pie. none of us here wants to see an increase in poverty; none of us here wants to see an increase in social exclusion. so, the words are good and in a sense i echo my colleague on the other side of the chamber in that. the question is what we do about it. and that is a question for each national government in the member states. in my own country’s case, it is up to the british government to do something about it, and it is up to each national government, because the situation, the economic conditions and the social conditions apply differently throughout the european union. in britain today, maybe in other countries too, we face a threat of a real recession, real poverty and real social exclusion getting worse, and it is now up to our government in britain and to the governments of all the member states of the european union to recognise this factor and to act accordingly.
mr president, i would like to explain to the house why i abstained on this particular resolution. i abstained not because i am in favour of the single currency so far as my country is concerned; in fact, i am absolutely opposed to it. it would be a disaster for the british political system and for the british economy if we entered into the single currency. i abstained because i believe that this is a matter entirely for the slovak government. if they decide it is in their country’s interests to enter the single currency, that is their national entitlement and they have made their decision accordingly. it is issues like this which demonstrate how europe should proceed. it should proceed by countries making decisions which are in their interests, and to berate the people of ireland as has been done in this chamber over recent hours is wrong. the people of ireland have made a decision in their national interests. it is for them to make that decision and their democratic vote should be respected. winston churchill said, ‘trust the people’. that is what we should do. (applause)
mr president, firstly can i completely concur with what mr sumberg has just said. i just have to say thank you to the people of ireland for giving democracy a chance again in the european union. i rise on this because i too abstained, since it is my party’s policy not to vote on these matters as we are not included in them. but i was interested in the report itself. paragraph 6 recommends that ‘the slovak government set up an observatory to monitor the price of a selected number of basic goods on a weekly basis so as to fight false perceptions about price increases’. well, in the uk we measure inflation and our inflation rate has supposedly gone up to 3.3%, as announced earlier this morning. however, if you meet a humble punter living in daventry or long buckby, they will tell you that the price of their petrol has increased by way more; the price of their food has increased by way more; the price of their council tax has increased by way more. and so i wonder about the quality of statistics. there are other problems in paragraphs 8 and 9, but these all go to explain why it is a very good idea that britain is not in this club. nevertheless, i wish this country well.
mr president, i also abstained on this report. i would like to make two or three points as to why i did so. firstly, i have struggled to believe that the founding fathers of this place, when they were laying the basis for their european union for freedom and for freedom of movement etc. thought that the detailed policy that is set out in this report would be one of the things that would come forward in years to come. secondly, i am not convinced that this should be done at european level – perhaps it could be at national level, but most certainly it should be at the most local of levels. finally, i would like to wind up by saying that in my constituency the city of leicester is an example of how local action in this field can work. leicester is one of the most diverse cities in the united kingdom for all sorts of different reasons – it has both rich and poor, of many different nationalities – and yet, because of individual and local action, leicester has one of the most coherent strategies for the cohesion and integration, as we say here, of vulnerable communities and groups. it is an example to us all that local action is best, and i worry when we talk about it at an eu level.
mr president, my comments echo those of the speaker before me. my comments are also relevant to the panayotopoulos-cassiotou report on poverty and social exclusion. if we take these two reports together they clearly represent a flaw in the thinking of european politicians, namely that whatever the problem appears to be, europe is the solution. i urge all of us really concerned with the problems of vulnerable communities to look instead at local-community-led solutions and not the proposals of some distant eurocrat or some distant member of the european parliament. please look at the excellent work, for example, of the centre for social justice based in london in my own constituency and led by iain duncan-smith and his wonderful team, who are building an alliance of local community organisations tackling poverty and social exclusion: organisations such as the croydon caribbean credit union or the london boxing academy, attracting some of the most vulnerable people in society. while the issues in the report are all serious problems, we should remember that the solutions are often to be found closer to home, and for this reason i abstained on the harangozó report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the díaz de mera garcía consuegra report on the exchange of criminal record information between member states. with increased mobility in the eu, it is important that member states are able to keep each other informed of the criminal histories of eu citizens resident within their territories. safeguards must, however, be applied and i welcome the proposed general prohibition of the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union membership and data concerning health or sex life.
in writing. − the second reading on the waste framework directive represents a wasted opportunity. the eu should be setting firm targets for waste reduction, not producing non-binding aspirations for some far-distant future date. my own group's amendments would have strengthened the proposed legislation and it is a matter of some regret that they were unsuccessful.
in writing. − i welcome caroline jackson’s report on the revision of the framework directive on waste. to adequately contribute to our climate change objectives, the eu needs to renew its commitment to waste reduction and recycling. we would make considerable progress on this by introducing binding recycling and re-use targets by 2020 of 50% for household waste and 70% for construction and demolition. these views are reflected in my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report and in particular welcome the additional role given to the european maritime safety agency. emsa was established in the wake of a number of serious maritime incidents and has an important role to play in minimising such future occurrences. it is right that emsa's interests should extend into the field of ensuring adequate training for seafarers.
in writing. − the proposed simplifications of the regulations dealing with pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin are to be welcomed and, accordingly, i supported mrs doyle's report.
in writing. − it is to be hoped that the designation of 2010 as "european year for combating poverty and social exclusion" will lead to real progress across the eu in tackling inequalities. the report correctly notes that the successful work in this area requires cooperation at european, national, regional and local level. my own nation, scotland, still has levels of poverty which are quite shameful particularly given the country's immense wealth. fortunately we now have a government which is committed to tackling the social exclusion that they inherited from successive unionist administrations. the scottish government's commitment is wholly in keeping with the principles outlined in the panayotopoulos-cassiotou report which i happily supported.
in writing. − 2010 will be the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i hope that the subject of child poverty across the eu will be highlighted and concrete action taken by member states to eradicate child poverty.
in writing. − i will be supporting the report on the adoption of the single currency by slovakia on 1 january next year. since its introduction the euro has been a global success story rapidly establishing itself as a global reserve currency that has challenged the dollar’s monopoly. all the evidence is that it will continue to go from strength to strength. as a firm supporter i only wish my own country england was on the verge of joining. it was difficult for me to imagine that countries that were not even members of the union when the single currency was adopted would themselves introduce the euro before the uk. we are in danger of being left behind as a semi-detached part of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the casa report relating to the adoption of the euro in slovakia. slovakia, a country of just over five million people, has been independent for a mere 15 years. in that short time, slovakia has developed both politically and economically and now the country is in a position to join the eurozone. the slovak experience gives the lie to claims that scotland is too small to become a successful and independent nation within the eu.
in writing. − the harangozó report makes some important points on social exclusion. the report rightly highlights that social exclusion and impoverishment exist in both urban and rural areas. it also notes the importance of regional and local authorities as well as the economic and social partners and relevant ngos in developing strategies to combat social exclusion. however, this house failed to adopt my own group's amendment relating to the social agenda and, accordingly, to citizens' rights to a minimum income and to access to education and training. accordingly, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − i welcome the general thrust of the schmidt report. the eu's policies have a profound impact on the economies, environment and societies of west africa and it is imperative that we take responsibility for our actions in dealing with west african nations. i deplore, however, parliament's decision to adopt amendment 1 and remove the reference to avoiding over-capacity in the fisheries sector. it is abundantly clear that over-capacity in any fisheries should be avoided and it is shocking that parliament has voted in such a way to appease politicians in certain member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, i hope that if parliament adopts the electricity report tomorrow, it will be an indication to energy companies all over europe that we want the consumer back in the driving seat. before talking about the most controversial aspect of this directive, i would like to dwell on some of the areas where we have managed to find a consensus within parliament so far. there cannot be anyone within the european union who has not noticed the massive increase in energy prices in recent months. all over the european union there are people struggling to pay their energy bills so we believe that the issue of ‘energy poverty’ should be placed firmly on the eu agenda. after all, the ets system and the renewables targets are european and they impact on energy prices. we have respected subsidiarity, commissioner, in our request that member states should come up with their own definitions of energy poverty and an action plan for dealing with the problem. so, if the council want a deal on this package, they need to understand that this is a central requirement of parliament. already many rights for consumers exist in the energy field but they are not enforced. so we have asked the national regulatory authorities to use incentives and sanctions to ensure the consumer is protected. we have also listed additional rights which should be enjoyed by the consumer such as affordable prices for low-income families, an easier way to switch suppliers, increased representation for the consumer, especially when they have complaints, and a fair deal for people in rural and remote areas. we believe there should be a roll-out of smart meters within 10 years, which should boost energy efficiency, and companies should be creative in the way they charge for energy and not reward people who use more as is currently the case. priority access should be given to renewables to enter the grid so that we can reach that 20% target. we have got to understand that when we talk about transmission systems we are talking about monopolies, so clearly there is a need for very strict regulation. we would like to see much better cooperation between national regulatory authorities and competition authorities. in this way, we might get to a point where we do not have almost half of the countries in the eu where one company dominates over 70% of the market. now to the most controversial part of the report – the issue of unbundling. the clear thing is that the current system has not worked. there is a suspicion that some are not playing fair. they are giving priority access to their own company; they put obstacles in place which could stifle competition. that is why i believe, as rapporteur, that total separation of energy supply from transmission companies or full ownership unbundling – as was suggested initially by the commission – should be the only option for electricity companies. it is only in this way you will remove the conflict of interest. you can build as many chinese walls as you want, but there will be no incentive for companies to encourage competition in the market if they also own transmission companies. we need a level playing field: we need easier access for renewables and smes, but, probably more than anything else, we need a stable regulatory framework for the one trillion-worth of investment that is necessary in the eu market. if we fudge this issue now, we will not be giving a clear signal to those investors and the lights could go off in europe. this issue will not go away and, if the lights go out, governments can fall. so, who is resisting this? germany, france, austria, luxembourg, greece and bulgaria: they think that strengthening these chinese walls will be enough. some suspect also that there is an effort to protect national champions who are happy to invest in other markets but are reluctant to allow others into their markets. we should not oversell the model however, we are not likely to see a reduction in prices under any model. we know that the council has come to an informal agreement on this issue. they have suggested the strengthening of these chinese walls. many of us, however, feel that this will not be enough for european consumers and have suggested sticking to a tough position. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in particular and everybody involved in this package for the cooperation on this very complex dossier.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to acknowledge the major contribution of my immediate predecessor and, as it were, co-rapporteur, mr brunetta, who had to leave this house for another post in his mother state. i would like to thank the shadows for their constructive cooperative approach, which enabled us to create a broad consensus. it is an interesting challenge to find the right balance between leaving the national regulatory authorities alone to do their own thing and to create an eu regulator. for markets to function well, the role of regulator is absolutely crucial. this agency would complement at european level the regulatory tasks performed by the nras and do so by providing a framework for them to cooperate with each other by regulatory oversight of the cooperation between transmission system operators by giving the agency individual decision powers and by giving it a general advisory role. the agency would have an advisory role vis-à-vis the commission as regards market regulation issues and that is an important function. in the course of the debate on this regulation we have become more convinced of the need to go beyond the commission’s proposals for the agency to create an agency with more independence and more decision-making powers. if the agency is to contribute effectively to the development of an integrated competitive energy market for the european union, the agency will need more extensive powers and be independent of the commission in order to handle cross-border situations and deliver effective cooperation between the tsos and the nras – the national regulatory authorities. so we proposed new decision-making powers for the agency, in particular over the development of the technical codes which my colleagues just mentioned, and the investment plans of the tsos and a greater regulatory and financial independence. however, with that greater power and independence should come greater accountability to parliament in particular, but to stakeholders as well. we have therefore proposed to increase the agency’s requirement to consult, its requirement for transparency and its accountability to parliament. i should emphasis that we have sought to ensure coherence and consistency in this report and this regulation with the other parts of the package. we have been aware of the issues raised by the meroni judgment, but nevertheless are of the view that our proposals are appropriate. the proposed changes to the structure are designed to secure the most effective balance between the needs for regulatory independence and appropriate political control on the other hand. a key principle for me, and for us, is that the independence of the agency is critical, not only for its effectiveness, but also for its credibility. we therefore propose a stronger role for the board of regulators, a time limit to ensure speedy decision-making and increased financial independence for the agency. the future of the european energy market and its development after the implementation of the third energy package will require an important role to be played by the agency, and that is why the power and independence of the agency must be enhanced over and above the level proposed by the commission.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, these reports bring the usual wish list of incompatible objectives: security of energy supply, an efficient energy market, reduction of co2, harmonised rules for all countries and cheap energy for pensioners. well, cheap energy for some means that the rest of us pay for it. perhaps we think we shall win friends by forcing governments to provide subsidised energy to those suffering from so-called ‘energy poverty’. is there no area of activity in which the eu will trust national governments to do what they think is best for their own peoples? one thing that these reports should highlight, but do not, is the foolishness of the targets for carbon and renewable energy. the oil price is high and likely to remain high, yet the cost of energy to consumers is going to be higher still in order to subsidise renewables. ironically, sustained high oil prices are just what is needed to reduce co2 emissions. they will reduce consumption and stimulate the development of alternative sources far more effectively than any number of targets and directives. who knows? we may eventually find that wind power becomes viable. in the end it will be very hard to impose harmonised unbundling rules across 27 member states, irrespective of the benefits that this may or may not bring. countries would indeed be foolish to rely too heavily on their neighbours for energy supplies. when the lights go out, when hospitals have no power, national interests are going to prevail irrespective of orders from the proposed eu regulator. that is how things are.
madam president, i echo the congratulations to our rapporteurs made by previous speakers. i think parliament has done a good job today for europe’s consumers, but i focus particularly on one issue and one amendment. that is amendment 161 to the morgan report, pushing for better access to the grid for renewable operators. i hope that amendment will be successful when we vote on it tomorrow. i call now for stronger action on the part of the commission in cases where the national authorities are actually part of the problem rather than part of the solution. by way of example, in the united kingdom we have ofgem, our national authority, which has a locational pricing mechanism for access to the uk grid that actually discriminates against renewable operators within scotland, my country. i would like to see a greater degree of european coordination and action against the individual member state operators where they are part of the problem. i think we have made a good start towards that today and look forward to seeing more of it.
madam president, i should like to give an example of where the charter on the rights of energy consumers can make a real difference. a small community organisation in manchester asked for my help in resolving a complaint with its energy supplier. for five years the company was reading the meter but failing to send any bills. in march 2008, the group received an invoice for five years’ electricity use totalling gbp 7 540.37, pushing them into debt. ensuring consumers are aware of their rights – in this case the simple right to receive a regular bill – is fundamental to putting consumers in control of their energy consumption. at a time when every consumer in every country across europe is facing soaring energy bills, we must give consumers the information and tools to manage their bills, cut their use and costs and, at the same time, contribute to cutting co2 emissions. i urge the commission to be bold in taking forward a charter of rights, working with regulators, member states and companies to proactively promote and publicise these rights, and to abandon the notion of a watered-down checklist, which will not deliver a fair deal for consumers faced with today’s complex energy challenges and prices. if we can have a charter of rights for air passengers, why can we not have one for energy consumers? commissioner, i should like you to answer that question.
madam president, i strongly support unbundling between generation and transmission, but i would say that it needs to be thorough and i question whether it can sit comfortably with any state ownership in either sector. i say that in part from the experience of my own constituency, northern ireland, where we have recently entered a single electricity market on the island of ireland, with much promise about what that would do for stability of prices. the experience has been rather different. a couple of weeks ago i visited one of the largest consumers in my constituency. three years ago they were paying just marginally more than the average uk price. today, under the single electricity market in ireland, they are paying 76% more than the average uk price. in effect they have been decoupled without gaining any advantage, and the primary reason is, i believe, because that single market was created without adequately dealing with the issue of the state monopoly of the esb.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and support her position on getting a fairer deal for consumers. mrs morgan has rightly indicated that this is best achieved through ownership unbundling and that means we need to reduce the concentration of power of large companies and allow better access for small and medium-sized enterprises. better regulation of electricity and gas markets is critical to ensuring fair competition and better prices for consumers and i am deeply concerned that soaring energy prices are putting europeans increasingly at risk of energy poverty, especially the elderly, who are the most vulnerable. given the current conditions in energy security, we absolutely need a well-functioning gas and electricity market in europe. recently we have experienced problems with the supply of energy and this report rightly seeks to resolve some of these. i have received a number of letters from my constituents in support of amendment 159 which would prohibit member states from authorising the construction of new power stations that emit more than 350 g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt produced.
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to thank all those who contributed to a very interesting debate. i would like to reflect a little on what mr hökmark said about developing the best possible system to ensure security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. i must say that the position the council has come up with goes too far. i am disappointed with the informal agreement in council, because it has bent too much to the will of the minority. i understand, of course, that there is a time and a place and a need for compromise, but i think it has gone too far. i am also disappointed with the commission for not being firmer in defending its own position – do not forget that it is your own position that we are defending now. i would just like to remind you that you have backtracked and we have not – we are defending your position. what we have at the moment is not good enough. we have large industrial energy users coming up to us and asking us privately to unbundle, but when we tell them that we will try to do that and ask them to come and say that to us publicly, they say they cannot do that as they are vulnerable! that means that the consumer is not in charge – the consumer is not in control of the marketplace – and that is problematic. i think there has been a misunderstanding on the matter of special tariffs for vulnerable customers. i stand by this issue. i want to see special tariffs for vulnerable customers. however, we are not asking the eu to do this: we are asking member states to do it and to take this issue seriously. we, the socialists, in particular, have listened to what our constituents are saying: that high prices are hurting and that they are really suffering at the moment, and we want the issue of energy poverty put on the agenda in the member states. it is not even there at the moment. only one country in europe has a definition of energy poverty. put it on the agenda in your member states because it is not there now!
rapporteur. − madam president, this has been a fascinating debate, the house is divided on a different basis from our normal left/right or even north/south antagonism and it has been intriguing to me, particularly as a british conservative, to see how my colleagues from certain member states have wriggled and twisted and turned in their desperate efforts to prevent change. i never thought my german colleagues would be much more conservative (with a small ‘c’, as in ‘resistant to change’) than myself. when i first came to this parliament, i was a strong supporter and advocate of something called privatisation – mr allister mentioned this a while back – that is to say, removing ownership of these enterprises from the state and allowing private enterprise to run them more efficiently than a state monopoly does. now i appreciate that this is an alarming concept in europe, but it may be that the ultimate direction in which we should go is beyond ownership unbundling to privatisation. can i say that i personally am persuaded of the importance of addressing fuel poverty: i think that block tariff reform could be a way to go. it seems quite extraordinary that we should be putting the marginal price of energy lower than the initial price, and thereby encouraging consumption when surely we live in an age when we want to encourage conservation and efficiency and make it more expensive to consume more. it may be that market forces will do the business for us: the oil price is making people in my country change their habits and i notice – and i enjoy reminding my german colleagues of this – that e.on has seen the benefit of market forces in its decision to unbundle its distribution service. we may need a fourth package in the future, but i congratulate mrs morgan on what she has achieved so far. hold the line: we look for a big majority tomorrow, because eventually those who are consumers in markets which are not unbundled will look to the other markets that are unbundled and say: ‘we want that please’.
in writing. – i fully support my colleague’s report, and would have done so in person had it been possible. however, i do not believe that this means we cannot build new coal-fired power stations. the coal industry is once again at the forefront of a revolution, with the 25th anniversary of the miners’ strike fast approaching. this revolution is based on the clean coal and carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies that are being developed at the hatfield colliery near doncaster. ccs technologies would mean that 90% of a power station’s co2 emissions are captured and then transferred to geological storage. such technology could revolutionise the way in which the uk satisfies its energy requirements. in addition to the benefits of using a natural resource that we possess in abundance, the jobs created within a nascent clean coal agency could give a lifeline to mining communities that have seen a quarter of a century of economic and social decline.
the next item is question time (b6-0161/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
i am sorry, but the questions are as printed on the paper. there is an order and i am afraid you cannot come with a spontaneous question. part one
question no 25 by lambert van nistelrooij (h-0379/08) subject: mobile termination tariffs on 4 april the belgian courts (case 2007/ar/3394) suspended a decision by the belgian national post and telecommunications regulation body (ibpt) setting mobile termination tariffs. one of the main arguments put forward was the fact that large operators’ economies of scale must be taken into account in setting mobile termination tariffs. does the commission look upon the belgian court’s arguments as a guiding principle for its upcoming communication on mobile termination tariffs? does the commission share the view that the telecommunications companies which are now largely responsible for competition in the mobile phone market – the ‘challengers’ – should be allowed enough time in the communication to bring themselves into line with any new rules?
question no 26 by katerina batzeli (h-0386/08) subject: crisis management policy to deal with high prices on the market the high prices on the market brought about by the increase in oil prices, the recent food crisis, profiteering and ineffective checks continue to have a negative impact on inflation and household incomes. this critical situation calls for a concerted european response. how and by means of what measures does the commission intend to deal with the current crisis which is now damaging the development of the national economies and reducing household incomes, leading the public at large to call into question the role of the euro in relation to the price of oil? what measures will the eu take to stem the international surge of profiteering on goods? will it set up a crisis management mechanism at community and national level? how and by means of what measures will national bodies be assisted to deal with profiteering, which is primarily occurring owing to the dominant position of certain companies? do the commission's priorities include setting a maximum selling price for certain basic foods? is it acceptable that some governments are currently increasing indirect taxes in a bid to boost public revenue? is it appropriate to lower vat and indirect taxes on some basic foods and products at european level? question no 27 by leopold józef rutowicz (h-0399/08) subject: price rises in the eu demand for biofuels and the growth in demand for food are among the causes of a significant rise in the price of such commodities, which is hitting eu citizens with low incomes particularly hard. at the same time, production restrictions on a range of items leave no scope for competition, which could keep price rises down. what action has been taken with a view to restricting food price rises on the eu market?
member of the commission. − first of all i do not see a reduction of vat as a possible solution. today we have oil prices of approximately usd 136-137 per barrel; if we were to reduce the vat what would be the next question if we then had an oil price of usd 160 – would we reduce it further? we have to be much more forward-looking when trying to find solutions and here we have encouraged investments in reducing the dependency on oil. that is possible within the agricultural sector and we are now discussing it for fisheries as well, because fisheries is even more dependent on oil prices. therefore, investments in new technologies is much more forward-looking than just reducing the vat. in response to the other question raised, we will present a proposal this year for the most deprived people within the european union. we have a scheme in place already, but its survival is based on surplus stocks – intervention stocks of agricultural products – and we do not have anything on intervention any more. therefore we need the legal basis for a new scheme and i hope that the honourable members will be satisfied when they see what we are considering as a way to continue or even increase the economic basis for such a scheme. i completely agree that we need to find decent solutions.
commissioner, in answering question 27, you told us that only 1% of eu land was in biofuel production. perhaps the more relevant percentage, given how much we import cereals from there, would be to know the percentage figure that is rising in north america, causing many of us to believe that biofuels is indeed an animal feed price accelerator. so could you enlighten us about that? secondly, another accelerator in that regard is the continuing dilatory and reluctant attitude by the commission to approve gm varieties, which would be much cheaper. could you update us on the progress there? are we any closer to synchronised approvals in terms of key areas which also supply?
question no 28 by ioannis gklavakis (h-0381/08) subject: fish farming strategy according to forecasts by the united nations food and agriculture organisation, consumption of fisheries products is set to increase by 50% by 2030, the bulk of demand being met by fish farming, which would mean an increase in output of around 40 million tonnes. in view of constantly diminishing fish stocks and rising world demand for fish and shellfish, fish farming is assuming ever-increasing significance. in view of this, does the commission's eu fish farming strategy review include marine planning guidelines for the fish farming sector? what measures does it intend to take to make community products more competitive with those of third countries, where production standards are less stringent? is it envisaging other innovatory measures with a view to developing this sector?
question no 29 by brian crowley (h-0416/08) subject: safety tonnage application on 13 june 2006, the court of first instance ruled in favour of 20 irish applications seeking safety tonnage, which annuls commission decision 2003/245/ec oj l 90, 8.4.2003, p. 48. of 4 april 2003 for 20 safety tonnage applications. the court found that the commission had used criteria not provided for in the rules (i.e. vessels have to be at least 5 years old before being eligible to apply for safety tonnage) and that it had exceeded its power. all the safety tonnage applications were submitted to the commission before 31 december 2001, as required under council decision 97/413/ec oj l 175, 3.7.1997, p. 27. (see article 4(2)) the court found that the commission had not applied this article correctly in refusing the safety tonnage application for these individuals. could the commission comment on why this decision was not appealed and why the successful applicants are still awaiting an answer from the commission, almost two years later, on how it intends to comply with the court ruling?
question no 30 by seán ó neachtain (h-0420/08) subject: impact of north american imports on irish shell fishermen shell fishermen in ireland are being negatively impacted by cheap imports from the united states and canada due to the weak dollar. prices of shell fish are continuing to spiral downwards. what plans does the commission have to help these fishermen, who are very important to ireland's local coastal economies?
question no 31 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0347/08) subject: promotion of environmental protection through enterprises how does the commission promote the integration of the environmental dimension into policies on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the adjustment of the latter to the requirements of the new european legislation on the environment? what scope will smes be given to exploit the opportunities afforded by the new environmental policy in order to extend their activities?
question no 32 by georgios papastamkos (h-0349/08) subject: international deliberations on the environment what are the reasons for the lack of international deliberations on climate change for the post-kyoto period and why has global environmental governance been only partially effective?
question 34 has been withdrawn and questions 33 and 35 to 44 will be answered in writing.
we time it up here and he started at 18.32. that being the case, i am afraid we have had our 20 minutes, and it is only fair to colleagues who have asked questions of commissioner barrot. i am sorry for that, but that is the position we are in. it is always a question of trying to find a balance, and that is what we have to do today.
question no 45 by armando frança (h-0344/08) subject: frontexthe management of the european union's external borders and operational cooperation between the member states as part of frontex are vital for the eu's security and may even prevent situations from arising. the agency needs to be effective and achieve concrete results. what pilot projects and training actions are scheduled to be carried out in 2008? with regard to rabit, have any member states requested the deployment of a rapid intervention team? do the rabit teams have their own equipment for border control and surveillance?
as the author is not present, question 46 lapses.
question no 47 by gay mitchell (h-0369/08) subject: measures to combat terrorism and the fundamental right to privacy there is a concern that certain eu policies to counter terrorism, particularly related to data retention, are not balanced against eu citizens' fundamental right to privacy. will the commission comment on how it is seeking to achieve a fair balance between respect for fundamental freedoms and measures to combat terrorism?
question no 48 by claude moraes (h-0380/08) subject: european arrest warrant the european arrest warrant (eaw) is now widely used to secure the arrest and surrender of suspected criminals across the european union and has a key role to play in the fight against terrorism and in bringing those accused of serious crimes to justice. however, at least in its initial stages, a degree of legal uncertainty seemed to sometimes surround it. an earlier report by the british house of lords warned that, until this uncertainty was resolved, the eaw might not be fully effective between member states. could the commission give its view on how effectively initial problems have been overcome and how effectively the eaw is now operating? which, if any, issues does the commission still consider problematic, and how does it intend to address them?
the commissioner is right to say that the eaw is the kind of measure which european union citizens expect to see from the justice and home affairs portfolio. it makes sense to emerge from very long drawn-out extradition proceedings. may i, however, ask him to take a personal interest and personal involvement in this problem of the way that the framework decision has been transposed by some member states? (the commission has been critical of that.) may i ask him to take a personal involvement in the fact that some member states are sticking to old procedures and, as a result, the eaw is not as effective as it could be? there have been some very important successes, but unfortunately these have been dragged down by this lack of good transposition and good implementation of what could be a very important directive for the future in the field of justice and home affairs.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.20 and resumed at 21.00.)
the next item is the commission statement on the import of poultry carcases.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner said that this chemical chlorine is not dangerous. if that is the case, why is it banned for use on chickens in the european union? secondly, commissioner, you said that we have obligations to the united states. we are part of the wto negotiations and part of the wto, but – correct me if i am wrong – there is no ban on chicken meat coming out of the united states, provided it meets eu standards. why on earth are we putting in place legislation in the european union when we are in effect wasting our time? we have just adopted a report on a directive on safe water. we have taken a number of chemicals out of the text and yet here we are, bringing chlorine back in. you mentioned quite rightly on 2 june that there was a vote of 26 to 1 against. the one that abstained was the united kingdom. you have to remember that the united kingdom is governed by the greed of the supermarkets and i would suggest to you that the reason the united kingdom abstained is that it was pressurised for cheap food from the supermarkets. i believe that in actual fact this is having a detrimental effect. you say there will be no residue left on the products. can you wholeheartedly put your hand on your heart, commissioner, and say that you will be able to monitor this, because in the past we have had problems with products coming into the eu? i was responsible for the report on chemicals in food coming into the european union and food within the european union, and we are having real problems monitoring them. i believe that you are laying yourself open to a real risk, and not just to public health. it is not a trade issue – it is about public health, public confidence in the product. the last thing we want to see is loss of public confidence in the european union and in the food we produce.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008.
the next item is the report by francesco ferrari, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users (com(2007)0560 – c6-0331/2007 – 2007/0201(cod)) (a6-0081/2008).
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as the irish prime minister sets out for brussels tomorrow, he might well chew over the words of the irish pop group u2: ‘where did it all go wrong?’ the other heads of state and government should also reflect why, on the threshold of a new french presidency, we have come full circle since the last: from nice to nice. there is clear evidence that a majority in every member state supports the european union. there is scant evidence that a majority in any favours further construction. we cannot say for sure that any treaty would get a majority in any country. trust in institutions is ebbing away. so it is no good for blithe spirits in berlin to whistle that other u2 hit ‘with or without you’, or for people in paris to push ireland into voting again. as brecht pointed out, you cannot dissolve the people. though fewer than a million voted against, and in a landscape littered with lies, the people are not persuaded. why? first, because we’ve done little to convince them of the changes we champion. the commission has a plan ‘d’ for dialogue, but our member state governments have no equivalent. certainly there is a role for parliament and commission in explaining the european union – but also for every national government, every single day, not just when ratification of the latest treaty is due. and there is a job here, too, not just for political parties at european level, but for political parties in every member state. second, while the eu has created great wealth, it is now amassed less honestly and spread less fairly. our political and our business leaders must come to grips with huge ethical issues. and mr schulz, i am sorry you have only five heads of state of government these days, but those issues are no less valid in the countries run by socialists than they are in any other! (applause) third, for all the freedoms for goods and for capital – and even for services – our union is not famed for freedoms for its people. cross-border complications in civil law – custody of children in divorce cases, problems with properties abroad – fill the mailbags of meps. a lack of safeguards in cross-border criminal cases and a cavalier approach to data protection add to that unease. what the eu promises in theory, it too often fails to deliver in practice. this is the backdrop against which our response to ireland must be measured. here in this house, we want the new treaty. we know it helps put right these wrongs. but beyond this forest of metal and glass, this is too little understood. so my group’s advice to council is this. get on with the real business of europe: boosting trade, combating climate change, fighting food and fuel price rises. let those who will continue to ratify the treaty. if necessary, make do with nice. use the passerelle clause to speed up europe’s problem-solving potential. forget the full-time president until you settle what the six-month stagiaire is going to do. launch a comprehensive campaign to remind people why the eu exists, inform them how it works and explain why, like the proverbial pint of guinness, it is good for you. europe means too much to too many to allow this crisis to stop it in its tracks. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, nobody else has said it, but i will: well done the irish! (applause from certain quarters) and yet, before the official result was out, there was mr barroso, holding a press conference in brussels, looking as shifty and as dishonest as anybody i have ever seen, saying – despite what the rules of the club are – that the treaty is not dead and we continue. frankly, it was a disgusting display; it was an insult to democracy. it is perfectly clear that the ratifications should stop now and the implementation of the treaty should stop now. i used to think, after the french and dutch results, that you were in denial, but now i realise that what is behind this is a new phenomenon: it is ‘eu nationalism’, and it is the most dangerous political phenomenon to have swept europe since 1945. you ignore the voters, you are destroying democracy, and you have shown that you will stop at nothing. well, ask yourself: why are the politicians, why is this class, now unpopular? well, later on today, mr barroso, this house will be voting for a new justice commissioner, and it is likely that a former convicted fraudster will, after today, be the justice commissioner for the european union. in fact you do not need the uk independence party. you are destroying the european union in the eyes of the voters. well done everybody! (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, may i remind this house that the rule of law is more important than the laws themselves. (loud protests)lisbon required unanimity. ignore that and you ignore the rule of law itself. the irish are not just 10% of the eu, they are 100% of those allowed to vote and they all know, we all know, that others would have voted ‘no’ given the chance. (further loud protests)lisbon was incomprehensible and the irish knew why. others would have voted ‘no’ given the chance. suggesting now that the process should go on, devising clever ways of regenerating lisbon in open defiance of public will, is an arrogance of breathtaking proportions and we have seen it all before. the austrian foreign minister stood here after the rejection of the previous treaty and boasted about 36 projects and institutions still going ahead; they still have no legitimacy after the failure of the lisbon treaty to get unanimity. i have a message for you from edmund burke: ‘the people are the masters, not you, and you ignore that and the rule of law at your peril’. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, the eu as we know is based upon four freedoms: freedom of movement of people, goods, capital and services. the first of those freedoms is about people. when jean monnet shared his vision of europe all those years ago, he said – if colleagues will forgive my mangled french –‘nous ne coalisons pas des états, nous unissons des hommes’. the eu is supposed to be about people, not about politicians so, not only does it need to be driven by the people, the people need to see and believe that it is driven by the people. last thursday we heard the people speak and their verdict was clear; the answer was a simple ‘no’. i recall the background to the first constitution treaty. there was recognition that the eu was becoming more remote from the people and that there was a need to do something about it. the declared solution was to prepare a treaty that would make the eu more simple, more transparent, more close to the people. but, by the time politicians had finished with it, they had produced a treaty which was more complicated, more opaque and even further away from the people. certainly, that is what the people believe still about this latest treaty. our response cannot be to carry on as if nothing has happened. if the people perceive that the eu is moving further away from them, then for the politicians to carry on regardless will simply make this problem worse. our problem must not be to discuss the speed at which the eu should now move; it should be to discuss its direction. listen to the people and they will tell you. if the ratification process continues, it will show that eu leaders have learnt nothing and that politicians still believe they know best and that it is the people who are wrong. by definition, the people are always right. it is called democracy. we want an eu which is people-centred and which delivers that democracy. so we must not ignore the irish vote; we should build upon it. the ratification process should stop. the listening to the people should begin. (applause) to conclude: martin schulz said in his very powerful and elegant speech that there is a crisis of confidence. i agree with him. it is the people who have lost confidence with the politicians. it is an opportunity for us to recognise this, to show that we have listened, and to regain and rebuild their trust. it is not good enough for all of us just to become great speakers; we have to show we can be great listeners too. (applause)
a uachtaráin, labhair na daoine in éirinn. ní vóta in aghaidh na heorpa an vóta a chaith éireannaigh in aghaidh chonradh liospóin an déardaoin seo a chuaigh thart. is san ae atá áit na héireann. tháinig sochair shóisialta agus eacnamaíocha chuig éirinn – thuaidh agus theas – mar gheall ar bhallraíocht na héireann, cé go bhfuil roinnt deacrachtaí ann fosta. an cheist a bhí ann: an margadh maith é conradh liospóin do mhuintir na héireann; don chuid eile den eoraip; nó don domhan i mbéal forbartha? cuireadh conradh liospóin os comhair mhuintir na héireann go daonlathach agus diúltaíodh é. ní ann do chonradh liospóin anois. ba mhaith le muintir na héireann margadh níos fearr, amhail muintir na fraince agus muintir na hísiltíre rompu. tá deis againn anois an díospóireacht faoin bhealach chun tosaigh san eoraip a athoscailt. is gá dúinn an deis seo a thapú. ní bheadh sé inghlactha do cheannairí an ae bealaí a iarraidh chun mianta na ndaoine atá léirithe go daonlathach a shárú nó a sheachaint. is gá próiseas an daingnithe a stopadh – go díreach mar a rinneadh i ndiaidh do bhunreacht an ae bheith diúltaithe. ach an t-am seo, ní mór éisteacht le muintir na héireann; éisteacht leis na daoine. ardaíodh cuid mhaith de na buarthaí céanna in éirinn agus a ardaíodh roimhe sa fhrainc agus san ísiltír. caithfear aird a thabhairt ar na buarthaí sin. caithfimid déileáil leis na buarthaí sin. throughout the referendum campaign in ireland, a number of key issues came up again and again: the democratic deficit, ireland’s loss of power in europe, neutrality and non-militarisation, workers’ rights and public services, and the treaty’s impact on the developing world. these issues must be addressed. the european project is now put to the democratic test through its response to the vote in ireland. does it listen to the people, does it respect their democratic wishes, or does it alienate its citizens by setting all of that aside? in my view, democracy must prevail. we must listen to what irish people have said. we must put aside talk of putting them to one side or moving ahead without them, isolating them or blaming them. we need to listen very carefully and calmly to what irish people have said and to the problems that they have indicated in terms of neutrality and the whole question of eu militarisation, in terms of democracy and the voice of ireland and other small nations in europe, in terms of workers’ rights and public services and social europe. we need to listen to that. we need to take the opportunity now to speak to the irish government, to listen to the irish people and to chart a way forward and a text that all can be happy with in the future.
mr president, this afternoon the british parliament at westminster will complete the ratification process for the lisbon treaty. it will be refreshing to read the press tomorrow to see finally that britain says ‘yes’ to europe. it will do much to restore the moral authority and the political credibility of the uk and it should assist the irish to find a new consensus based on less libertas and more veritas. it is bizarre that mr farage and his right-wing troops here prefer to let a referendum in a foreign country take a decision on behalf of, and in place of, the british sovereign parliament. it confirms my opinion that the plebiscite is a form of democracy, possibly suited for revolutionary circumstances, but completely unsuited for informed and deliberative decisions on complex treaty revision. that is why this parliament must assist the council to deliver the content of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, the lisbon treaty is dead. without unanimity that is simply a legal fact. voters, not just in ireland but in france and the netherlands too, have said ‘no’ to the treaty text or its twin brother. to regain the confidence of our peoples, we must do more than just re-badge and rename the lisbon text and try to push ahead. the new treaty was too easy to ridicule and too complex and obscure to explain, making it difficult for ‘yes’ campaigners in any country in a referendum. many of the changes which were provided for in this treaty were good, even necessary, but couched in such obscure, incomprehensible language that hardly anyone could understand. it is up to the other eight member states to decide whether and how to continue with ratification, but i think that it would be very helpful if, for example, the uk were to decide to do so by referendum and let us see whether we have the confidence of the people to continue with this process.
mr president, we must indeed not just listen to the irish result but reflect and digest it. but, as has been said, we must also listen to the other 26 countries, their results and also concerns that may be expressed during their ratification. and then we must rise to the enormous challenge of bridging the gap. if we do obtain 26 ratifications and one rejection, it is neither unreasonable nor undemocratic to ask the one whether they could consider the possibility of adjusting the reform package, reviewing it, explaining it better, perhaps seeking a new compromise rather than block all reform. there is nothing unreasonable or undemocratic about that. after all, even some of the ‘no’ campaigners in ireland professed they claimed their intention was to renegotiate and seek a better agreement. some people – and we have heard that from some parts of this house – only want to listen to one side, to the answer that they like, which is the answer ‘no’. i want to listen to both sides and then find a solution acceptable to all 27 countries. that is the challenge we must all rise to.
mr president, i presume that the leader of the uk independence party’s obsession with fraudsters is because of his own party’s intimate relationship with fraud and fraudsters. to return to the main point of the debate: clearly the lisbon treaty cannot come into force on 1 january as we hoped. we have to wait for the irish government to tell us how they think we should proceed. but meanwhile other states should exercise their sovereign right to ratify this treaty. my own member state will finish its ratification today in accordance with its long-standing and widely respected parliamentary tradition. meanwhile globalisation continues apace and with it the insecurity that it generates, which we saw a lot of evidence of in the irish referendum. the eu is a political process designed to deal with those issues so that is what we should be doing: looking at the millennium development goals, at climate change, at migration. what action? that is why i am going to avoid too much introverted institutional navel-gazing and think about action to improve the lot of our citizens. i have one question though for the slovenian presidency: could you tell me what are the implications of the irish vote for croatia’s accession to the european union?
in writing. – i heartily congratulate the voters of the republic of ireland on convincingly rejecting the repackaged constitution. in so doing they struck a blow for millions of democrats across europe, who were denied a say by the totalitarian attempt of the eu elite to foist the lisbon treaty on us all. the challenge is now whether some elite have the honestly and integrity to admit that the treaty is dead. lisbon sets its own test for survival: unanimous ratification. it spectacularly failed that test. like its predecessor, the constitution, it foundered on the rock of democracy. rather than face reality, i fear that we will again face a brussels conspiracy to circumvent the people. if you do, you will ultimately face the same fate. so save yourselves the trouble and admit that the treaty is dead, with no prospect of resurrection.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is the first in a package of measures dealing with the energy markets in the eu. there has been a great deal of cooperation between all the rapporteurs and the shadows on this package and we would like to send a message to the council that we intend to negotiate this as a package, not as a series of individual reports. there is one aspect of the electricity directive which has caused a great deal of division within the parliament. this is, unusually, broken down on a national basis, not on a party political basis. i would urge colleagues, however, to consider the report as a whole. it includes tackling energy poverty, better rights for consumers and measures to make the market work better.
rapporteur. − mr president, i object to this request. this report is a package which has been agreed amongst the groups. i do not think it is appropriate to make a request after the deadline and to open up the package in this way, so i ask my colleagues to join me in objecting to this.
mr president, there was a wonderful symbolism this morning. one after another the speakers stood up and said that they would respect the irish people. then immediately afterwards in the vote we pushed through this report, which is the first step towards creating a common policy on immigration and asylum, which would have been a large part of the lisbon treaty. if we were serious about respecting the vote of the irish people, far from proceeding with this stealthy implementation of the provisions of that text, we would start reversing those parts that were brought in in anticipation of a ‘yes’ vote, including the european external action service and the charter of fundamental rights. mrs wallström said this morning that it was important to find out why people had voted no. what had they been voting against? she asked. let me help her with that: i suggest that they were voting against the lisbon treaty. the give-away was the ballot paper which asked whether they wanted to approve the lisbon treaty. mr cohn-bendit said that it would be quite wrong to have one million people deciding the fate of half a billion europeans. well, i am happy to agree with that. give the half billion their referendums too. pactio olisipiensis censenda est! (applause)
mr president, i voted in favour of the morgan report. i thought there were some very important elements there. we obviously need a far more competitive energy industry in europe to ensure that everyone across europe benefits from better competition, lower prices and better-value quality services. i particularly welcomed the passage on decentralised generation, especially where it said, ‘we must ensure that power is returned to the people through support for local and micro generation’. those of us who support direct democracy in a localism agenda would say, ‘why stop at energy?’ why not devolve more power in a whole series of areas, not only back to national governments, but also to local communities – those people closest to the issue that is being legislated on? here i sit with my colleagues, daniel hannan and chris heaton-harris, who are also members of a great organisation called the direct democracy movement. if you truly believe in power to the people, we should devolve power back to them and ask them what they want. if you truly ask them about the lisbon treaty – as we did in ireland – they would say ‘no’.
mr president, i too supported the morgan report because i am convinced that we should be unbundling ownership fully in this particular sector, and the experience of member states indicates that full ownership unbundling leads to increased investment and improved network performance. however, i want to talk about local generation as well, because i believe this is a good step forward, as long as local projects are supported by local people and benefit the local area. in the region i represent, in the constituency of daventry, we have a number of unwanted wind-farm proposals. some have been defeated, some are coming forward, but none will service the local area. they are all based on some sort of new ‘subsidy farming’ created by a british government directive stating that we need to head down this particular route of renewables and nothing else. it is a very short-sighted focus on what we should be doing. so surely, if we are going to go down to the most local of areas to produce our energy, we should trust the people locally to take on the solutions that they need.
mr president, i apologise for my tardiness in getting up to speak. i was applauding the previous speaker who made a very valuable conclusion to his speech. my comments are also relevant to the chichester report, so i think i will take the comments together rather than asking for two separate speaking times. in some ways this report may highlight one of the potential flaws in the thinking of the eurocrats and people who quite often sit in this house, namely that, whatever the problem, europe has to be the solution. of course i welcome an agency of european regulators where national regulators are working together, but let us not forget that quite often the regulators who are best placed to understand local circumstances are national regulators. let us not allow this body to become a european super-regulator. let us make sure that the regulator understands local nuances and is truly accountable to local people. if we were accountable to local people, then they would have the opportunity to vote against the constitution.
mr president, i am already thinking of my press release and i think i shall start by speaking ‘to a packed house’ – although maybe i should just say speaking ‘to a packed interpretation booth’. i appreciate the interpreters for staying on, missing their lunch and listening to these things. i am an english soccer referee and i therefore fear every polish politician in this house who wants to kill such a person. however, i was thinking, after watching the football last night – especially the france-italy game – that maybe the french team should do what their political masters do and completely ignore the result and turn up at the quarter finals anyway, because that is what we are going to do with the lisbon treaty in this place. the reason – and, mr president, you might wonder how i am going to get to the report, and so do i sometimes – we do not need the lisbon treaty is proved within this report. the eu will not grind to a halt without this treaty. today we successfully voted on a massive change in institutional organisation in this place – and we did not need an extra treaty to do it.
in writing. − i voted against this report because it makes it harder for nation states to return illegal immigrants. and once given residence in eu member states, those illegal immigrants would find it easier to enter britain, thereby adding to the burden of illegal immigration in the uk. immigration and asylum policy should in any case be decided by democratic nation states not the european union.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) has abstained on the legislative proposal, due to the fact the uk is not obliged to follow this directive, as it has an opt-out/opt in on jha measures concerning immigration and asylum. however it was very important to consider our responsibility carefully as it would have had a direct effect on those countries legally bound by this directive. the weber report required a series of amendments that would have improved on the rapporteur’s draft. it was important that the report should have included the particular amendments as recommended by the pse group. as these amendments were not adopted we have abstained on this report. these were: amendment 98 ensuring the protecting of unaccompanied minors;amendment 103 concerning the length of detention and conditions;amendment 95 on the definition of the risk of absconding. overall the eplp feels that this report did not enhance the capabilities of eu states to deal effectively yet humanely with the returning of third country nationals residing illegally in the eu but has instead added extra burdens to an already complicated and highly emotionally charged issue.
in writing. − we voted to reject the report because we don’t want any kind of european common immigration policy. we feel that it should be up to individual states to decide who is expelled from their territory and under what circumstances. whilst we almost never vote for any legislation, we would like to point out that we did vote in favour of amendment 75, which rejected the commission’s proposal for a common expulsion policy, but not for the reasons/justification given by the group which tabled the amendment. we had our own reasons for rejection. this is regardless of the fact this directive does not apply in the uk. it is the principle behind this that drove our voting decision.
in writing. − i voted against the weber report and deplore the terms of the proposed returns directive. the directive will allow member states to detain migrants for up to 18 months, even for reasons outside their control. this is not the mark of a civilised immigration policy and falls short of the standards we should expect of the eu.
in writing. − the loss of amendment 98 concerning the treatment of unaccompanied minors, i.e. children, and amendment 103 on the conditions, duration and lawfulness of migrants in detention, is deeply depressing for those of us who believe in human dignity.
in writing. − we voted to reject the report because we don’t want any kind of european common immigration policy. we feel that it should be up to individual states to decide who is expelled from their territory and under what circumstances. whilst we almost never vote for any legislation, we would like to point out that we did vote in favour of amendment 75, which rejected the commission’s proposal for a common expulsion policy, but not for the reasons/justification given by the group which tabled the amendment. we had our own reasons for rejection. this is regardless of the fact this directive does not apply in the uk. it is the principle behind this that drove our voting decision.
in writing. − president, i spoke on the morgan report during the debate but i did not have the opportunity to speak on amendment 159. this amendment would prohibit member states from authorising the construction of new power stations that emit more than 350g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour produced. i would like to clarify the position on behalf of the eplp who have all received a number of letters on this amendment. whilst we appreciate that climate change is real and present and we have an obligation to address this, we have voted against amendment 159 because it would knock out the development of all new gas-, oil- and coal-fired power stations. this would be detrimental to europe's security of supply and to keeping the lights on in europe.
in writing. − i was disappointed that my own group's amendment on nuclear accident liability was not adopted. nevertheless, the final morgan report does contain much to commend it, and i welcome the addition of references to the proposed charter on energy consumers' rights. on balance, therefore, i was able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − energy markets are increasingly taking on a pan-european nature and the proposed agency for the co-operation of energy regulators will play an important role as the markets develop. the agency should have adequate powers to achieve its tasks and i was able to support the report which ensures these powers whilst guaranteeing the independence of national regulators.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i support the development of passive and active safety systems that would reduce the impact of road accidents involving pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. although a variety of factors may be responsible for accidents (speed, human error), the vehicle itself should be adapted to minimise impact during an accident. i support the report’s obligations to lay down minimum requirements for the construction and functioning of vehicles and frontal protection systems. however, i believe what is missing from this report is the massive opportunity to cooperate with developing and emerging countries. this is because the majority of road deaths, approximately 70%, occur in developing countries. pedestrians account for 65% of deaths and 35% of pedestrian deaths are children. a country like india alone accounts for a massive 10% of total global road accident fatalities. the eu must exchange and share with developing countries its expertise in road accident data collection and analysis, as well as the development of active and passive safety systems. there is a strong case for technology transfer from the eu to developing countries which could reduce road accidents and their impact on road users.
in writing. − every year thousands of pedestrians and cyclists across europe are killed or injured in road accidents. european legislation has played an important part in reducing fatalities and injuries but it is important that standards are up to date. the proposals in this field are to be welcomed and i accordingly voted in favour of the ferrari report.
in writing. − i welcome this report because it strengthens existing legislation and yet again attempts to improve road safety, especially in the area of cyclists’ and pedestrians’ safety. each year 8 000 people – pedestrians and cyclists – are killed and 300 000 injured on the roads of the eu. a great number of these casualties can be avoided either by better driver training or by improved motor vehicle design. the introduction of brake assistance systems, the introduction of higher performance tests and a quicker implementation period should all help to reduce the carnage that happens every year on our roads. i am particularly happy to see that those killers we know as bull bars will now have to pass the same performance tests on the vehicles on which they are intended to be installed, although for me the campaign to ban bull bars outright still goes on. i congratulate the rapporter on his report and i look forward to a speedy conclusion with the council on this issue.
in writing. − i wish to explain my vote in relation to the report by francesco ferrari on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. although i support the worthy objectives of this report, for all of us want to reduce the shocking loss of life and injuries sustained on our roads, i believe the report requires a very quick timetable for implementation and i do not consider that this can be achieved. some quite radical requirements are being proposed and therefore the burden on industry will be too high if the proposals are introduced too quickly. at a time of recession, we must all remember that our constituents need to protect their jobs and too hasty legislation can often damage this objective.
madam president, high oil and gas prices are here to stay and i doubt very much whether we will see the price much below usd 80 per barrel ever again. the west was caught on the hop and underestimated the rise in chinese and indian consumption, the under-investment in exploration and extraction technologies, the inability – or unwillingness, perhaps – of saudi arabia to turn on its taps as a swing producer, and the geopolitical risks of countries like venezuela, nigeria or iraq. what is the answer, in my view? we must, of course, consume less, invest in renewables and new technologies like hydrogen-fuel-cell cars and look at whether biofuels, in terms of their overall effect, are good or bad in terms of global emissions and in food inflation for the developing world. those in this house, particularly on the left, who believe it is all down to speculation are wrong, as you cannot hoard physical oil in large quantities as a speculator and take delivery. only the united states of america has the facility to do that. lastly, i welcome italy’s decision to build a nuclear reactor, which i hope other eu member states will follow.
, in writing. – the recent exponential rise in oil prices and subsequent crippling fuel prices are having a hugely negative impact on business and industries across the eu. of course, this situation also has serious consequences for the average consumer. citizens are feeling the pinch with rising food and fuel prices and reduced purchasing power. i agree with the commission that we must aim to reduce our consumption and dependency on oil and focus our efforts on promoting energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources. however, this is a long-term solution. for the moment, practical and tangible steps must be taken to ease the pressure on groups such as farmers, fishermen and members of society who are most vulnerable to these price increases. even if short-term measures such as tax reductions are outside the scope of eu competence, the union must be seen to take the lead and encourage national governments to implement solutions. the current situation is unsustainable and efforts must be made to tackle it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we need to stress the fact that a very high proportion of our fishermen are engaged in running small businesses. they have a limited right to fish. to exercise this right, they have to invest in boats, fishing gear and safety equipment. this can involve the repayment of substantial loans. they also need to pay for licences and, in certain cases, may do so for quota too. they then incur considerable running costs, such as for labour, repairs and, of course, fuel. the rules on quota and days at sea may require them to travel long distances to acquire a saleable catch. particularly in the case of bad weather, they may fail to do so. when they are successful, they still do not have control over the price of fish caught. in most cases they are dependent on what can be raised at auction. so they simply do not have the means of compensating for rising costs. the resolution sets out various practical means of assistance. that can be through the de minimis rule and its upward revision. i would urge all member states to make use of the opportunities to which the rule gives rise, so as to maintain a level playing field. urgent, too, are steps to curb iuu fishing, not just to help maintain the price of legally caught fish, but for stock conservation. this is true, too, of improving labelling requirements. other measures suggested, including restructuring but going beyond that to energy efficiency and alternative energy sources, also serve environmental purposes. in adopting them, we can bring benefits for our beleaguered fishermen and our endangered planet alike.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the massive fuel oil price increases we are talking about today may well be the straw that breaks the camel’s back for many british fishermen. they are already worn down by the endless regulations and quota cuts spewing out from this institution and bringing their industry to its knees. now they are in the invidious position of being unable to put to sea in order to catch the meagre amounts of fish they are still allowed to land, because the cost of fuel makes it unprofitable before they start. the british government has for many years abandoned them and has done so again in respect of fuel subsidies to help them through their present crisis. some of the fishermen in my area have been forced to seek a legal review of their situation because under the cfp they are supposed to be guaranteed a living from fishing. the uk independence party believes the cfp is an unmitigated disaster that britain should pull out of, to regain control of its own waters while it still has some fishermen left.
mr president, i am very glad that the commissioner has today addressed the much wider crisis in this sector, which has been compounded by the steep rise in diesel cost. as mr titford just said – and i rarely agree with him, but i do in this case – in some fishing nations the huge cost of fuel has followed in the wake of dwindling quotas and falling prices for fish. the situation is so bad that some crew in the uk now are earning less than gbp 100 a week, and that is driving hundreds of them to leave the industry at exactly the time that we need more young recruits joining the industry. many vessels, as everyone in this chamber knows, can no longer afford to put to sea. they lose money on every trip they make. angry fishermen are blockading ports; striking lorry drivers are refusing to carry freight: and that means the markets for fish are being completely disrupted at the most productive time of the year. but i am greatly encouraged by the provisions and the proposals that commissioner borg has unveiled to us this afternoon. those member states who submit proposals for fleet adjustment schemes or for the complete restructuring of their fisheries sector can receive aid from the european fisheries fund, and this will go a long way to alleviating the acute crisis affecting the sector at the present time. i am deeply ashamed that the british government is refusing to accept this aid, refusing to apply for this co-financed aid. it is atrocious that our fishermen should end up fishing in the same water for the same species as fishermen from other neighbouring nations who will be receiving this aid. that further distorts the market. so we need to support the creation of a smaller, more fuel-efficient fleet that is better matched to fishing possibilities. i think what the commission is proposing will achieve that.
mr president, the rise in oil prices affects everyone. so why is the fishing sector being singled out for special treatment? why do we not just subsidise everyone? local inshore fishermen will suffer least from this increase in prices while the deep-sea operators will suffer the most. these are the people operating huge vessels, travelling great distances, employing relatively few people but hoovering up the fish in vast quantities, bringing about the mass extinction of the fish in the seas. our response to the rise in fuel prices should be to free up the market and let the laws of supply and demand take effect. the very last thing we should do is provide subsidies that will help make fish extinct – it is the policy of madness. when all the fish have gone we should remember that we did our best to make it happen.
mr president, there is much about the commissioner’s package to welcome, but for me the key issue is delivery. how do you get common standards of delivery across the eu amongst the member states, with some, like mine, the united kingdom, ever-reluctant to take any financial assistance steps, even when they are permitted? could i ask the commissioner today not to be neutral on that, but to expressly call upon all member states to do what they are now permitted to do under his package and no longer to sit on their hands in this regard? otherwise we will continue to have an even less common fisheries policy, compounding inequality and delivering more disaster for the sector. related to that point – because some love to pass the parcel between national governments and the commission – could the commissioner identify within the new package exactly those measures which are wholly dependent on member state contributions and any, if there are any, which are free of that?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, eu-russia relations rank as one of the top challenges for the eu and opinions vary widely within this parliament whether to wield the big stick and confront the bear or speak softly with a mixture of carrot and stick in dealing with russia under its new president medvedev, which rather aptly means ‘bear’ in russian. nevertheless, we must give him the benefit of the doubt on his helpful comments about improving the rule of law, human rights and the fight against corruption – with the eu being more engaged in the strategic partnership and new pca with what is still the largest country in the world, which now projects renewed confidence due to its mineral-resource-driven trillion-dollar economy. priorities for the summit must include energy security as a reliable trading partner for oil and gas but also, with russia’s imminent accession to the wto, legal certainty for western natural resource companies in their foreign direct investments in russia. russia must be leant on to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its near neighbours and within the un help resolve the problems in the middle east as well as nuclear proliferation in iran and north korea. russia plays a key role in the western balkans, including resolving the kosovo question, and should not fear expansion of nato to include ukraine and georgia and could even help improve the repressive political climate in neighbouring belarus. there is much to talk about at the khanty-mansiysk summit. let us hope that the new putin-medvedev double act will be coming in a genuine spirit of reconciliation with the european union and not hoping that the ‘no’ vote in ireland means an end to an eu common front for the 27 member states vis-à-vis russia.
mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner spoke of the importance of getting the relationship between the eu and russia right. one area that is particularly important, it seems to me, is the question of civil society. does she envisage the possibility of launching some specific programmes or projects that we might begin to consider in terms of university exchanges, cultural and artistic exchanges, and, if so, what? i think it is worth repeating our disappointment in this context. the british council offices in st petersburg and ekaterinburg were closed, against all normal diplomatic practice. it is also worth reflecting on the energy relationship. as a good customer, we are in a strong situation. gazprom has quite clearly failed to convince this parliament, in the committee on foreign affairs, in the committee on industry, research and energy, and in the committee on petitions. they need to think again. we need a good relationship where we are not naive, where we do not rely on wishful thinking and where our russian partners and colleagues are not suspicious, and do not feel threatened or that they need to show aggression.
mr president, i raise an issue on behalf of mrs marina litvinenko, whose husband, alexander litvinenko, was murdered in london in december 2006. the murder weapon was polonium-210, a radioactive material, 97% of which is manufactured in the avangard nuclear facility in russia. the murder has all the hallmarks of a highly sophisticated assassination, such as those carried out by the russian security services. the chief suspect in the case, mr andrei lugovoi, is a member of the russian parliament and cannot be extradited under the russian constitution. if i may address myself to mrs ferrero-waldner directly: mrs litvinenko asks that the council and the commission raise the issue of mr litvinenko’s murder with president medvedev during the summit. mrs litvinenko wants the murder of her husband to be solved and those concerned brought to justice. the summit is an ideal opportunity to move that process forward. please assist her. (applause)
thank you to the presidency but obviously i am aware of all the legislation because i was the rapporteur who steered it through this house. in fact it is the national agencies who are responsible. i do not know the situation in all the countries but in the united kingdom it is the civil aviation authority. so these are national agencies and it is the responsibility of the national governments, which is why i posed the question to the council. in a week when europe is clearly struggling to convince all its half a billion citizens of the real value of the european union, this is a worthwhile initiative. this is very important legislation to support disabled people and passengers of reduced mobility so i urge the minister to go back to the council and say to all his 26 colleagues on the transport council and the members that they should enforce this legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank first of all my friend and colleague bogusław liberadzki for his work on this important dossier. i would also like to congratulate our new commissioner on his debut this evening. i will be honest with mr tajani: i did not vote for him earlier today. i did not vote against him, i did not abstain, i just did not participate in the vote. i should like mr tajani to understand it was nothing personal, it was more a protest against the system and against italian procedures. nevertheless, i respect his appointment and i am sure in the months ahead his will be looking to do everything he can to convince me and others of his great merits and qualities and indeed competence in the role that he brings to this house. in the last few days i think the irish voters showed us that far from all europeans are fully signed up or are clear about the role and benefits of the european union, about european cooperation and why europe-wide regulations are necessary in the first place. however, i think all of these people, people who voted ‘no’ as well, will expect their national governments and indeed the european union to look after them. whilst this particular subject may not be top of the list of ones that come to their mind, in fact the inland transport of dangerous goods is a serious issue, a serious responsibility and one that it behoves all of us to look after. only now, with this directive, do we actually have europe-wide regulations that cover the transport of dangerous goods as they move from one country to another across the continent. mr liberadzki was quite right to point out that in many countries there were no regulations internally or nationally. so this report will put responsibility on national governments. but any legislation is only as good as its enforcement. so in his quest to gain my full confidence, i hope mr tajani, by his good offices, will be doing everything he can to encourage member states to ensure that this legislation is properly monitored, enforced, and modified if necessary, and that strong action is taken against those who contravene this directive.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the commission was defeated by the uk before when trying to impose harmonised measurements – caught like graffiti vandals altering uk road signs. but they do not listen, and mr markov is going to put road safety standards under the control of an unelected commissioner. amendment 5 is good: ‘several member states already possess well functioning road safety management systems. these countries should be permitted to continue using their existing methods’. will some countries be more harmonised than others? which countries? please name names. uk roads have high safety standards – for instance, too many speed cameras. why not harmonise those? please take away as many as you like. amendment 53 requires harmonisation of sign visibility and readability, and 49 requires harmonised road signs and markings. is this readability designed to confuse uk motorists in 35 eu languages? what is it? is the rapporteur proposing huge road signs with massive texts so motorists can pick out their language at a distance? or maybe parking bays so motorists can get out and read it all? what next? uk distances are in miles, with stopping distances in yards. the eu is about harmonisation, not people, so the unelected commissioner will take away uk imperial distances and traditions via the back door without asking the people. the title of this report should be ‘eu cannot read the signs’. well, the writing is on the wall. keep your distance, listen to the people, not to politicians. if you want to mess with the imperial measure, let us have a uk and irish referendum on it, or do you want just more road rage? the uk would be better off out.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am replacing commissioner fischer boel, who certainly knows the sector better than i do. however, as president mauro knows, i come from a region in italy where sheep and goat farming has been part of its history, its raison d'être, and is named after the shoes worn by the ancient shepherds. i am therefore particularly pleased to be able to express the commission's opinion on this subject. i would like to thank mr aylward for the initiative in presenting this report and, as mrs fischer boel recently said in illustrating the proposals for the cap health assessment, farmers are the custodians of the landscape, they protect our common natural heritage and in many rural areas they continue to be the beating heart of the economy. i would add that i think this is particularly true for sheep farmers. in view of this, i think we can all agree that the sheep and goat sector deserves special attention. however, it is important to distinguish between two very different realities in this sector: on the one hand, extensive farming, which is more beneficial to the environment but often less profitable for the farmer, and on the other hand, intensive farming systems, which are more competitive but less environmentally sustainable. it should be recalled in this context that the aim of recent cap reforms was to make european union agriculture more efficient and competitive, while at the same time ensuring its sustainability. the health assessment confirms the validity of this twofold objective. we cannot maintain artificial restrictions which prevent farmers from meeting an increasing demand, but at the same time we must pursue a policy of environmental protection. the commission has therefore proposed, in the context of health assessment, stronger and more targeted support for environmentally sensitive production. the commission is therefore proposing, among other things, to maintain the coupled aid for sheep and goats. we also suggest that the current article 69 should be applied more flexibly, with the possibility of using it to the benefit of the sheep sector in particular. finally, we propose to strengthen rural development policy, which promotes the protection of the environment and the rural landscape, as well as creating employment and stimulating growth and innovation in rural areas, with particular attention to those that are peripheral, depopulated or heavily dependent on agricultural activity. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the new proposals offer a wide range of possibilities for the caprine sector. once the discussions and conclusions in the parliament and the council are finalised, it will be up to the operators in the sector to make the most of these opportunities.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, can i first of all welcome the new commissioner to his post. i look forward to working with him in the years to come and wish him well in taking up his post as commissioner with a heavy responsibility. i know he is not involved in his own particular area tonight and he is speaking for mariann fischer boel but i have little doubt – and i accept what he says – that his background knowledge in the area is quite good. like many politicians he came from this house. i am so delighted to see a commissioner who actually was a member, who actually knows what members think and what members feel. so, commissioner, i hope you will not take personally some of the things i might say tonight but you will take them back to mariann fischer boel and tell her what i really think. the report that comes before this house regarding the sheep and goat industry is timely and has comprehensively addressed the particular problems which the sector is currently facing. the sheep and goat sector has come through many years of being non-profitable. the industry has been demoralised by low prices, cheap imports and a low price for wool. sheep production is usually based mainly in mountainous and less-favoured areas where there are no farming alternatives. as young people look to the future they see that they cannot survive on the present income that this sector provides. they are therefore turning their backs on sheep and goat farming. the mid-term review did not bring any improvement to the financial viability of this sector. under the present health check the sector must receive special attention and we must look to see how we can best improve the overall viability. i have to say that the commission proposal to bring in electronic tagging as proposed will destroy the industry. if ever there has been a proposal that has not been thought through, this is it. the industry simply cannot afford to pay for this. most of the time, in fact, the tag would actually cost more than the animal might even be worth. the commission could ease fears by accepting our amendment to postpone the proposal until 2012. this would allow time to see if the technology associated with tagging improves and if the cost comes down. then and only then can we really improve the traceability that the commission requires. let me now deal with the proposal for a task force, which always seems to be put forward as a solution to any problem, be it in the national estate or in europe. the agriculture industry is littered with task force reports that have emerged in a blaze of glory only to enter the dustbin of history, never having achieved their stated goals. they are always well meaning but, unless you have the follow-through and the financial support, such reports will be doomed to fail. i fear this will be no different. there is an urgent need to develop the momentum behind this report. the committee on agriculture and rural development should have a report every six months on the state of play in the industry and what is being done to develop and improve the sector.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would add my own congratulations to the rapporteur this evening. i have been delighted to support this report since i first saw it and continue that support tonight on behalf of my group. mr aylward has clearly consulted very widely with the industry – the people who know what they are talking about – and that shines through in this report which could provide a few examples of best practice to a few other rapporteurs. i will pick up on two issues. the proposal to have an implementation task force is absolutely fundamental. we regularly come up with umpteen ‘christmas lists’ in this parliament and they do not necessarily go much further into actual reality. scotland’s and europe’s sheep farmers do need a better deal and we do need to have regular updates on how this industry is doing and what we need to do to fix it. the second issue which will be of no surprise to colleagues is sheep identification and electronic tagging. i would appreciate it as well if the commissioner, whom i welcome to his new post, could perhaps bring a fresh pair of eyes – as opposed to a pair of tags – to this issue, even though it is not within his remit, and accept that this well-meaning but deeply flawed proposal is precisely what the sheep and goat sector of europe does not need at this time or at all. it is flawed for three reasons: the proposals are impractical in that what works on a brussels flipchart will not work in the dead of winter up a hill in scotland; they are unproven: even the manufacturers of this technology admit that they need a great deal of work; and they are badly timed because the economic implications could put vast numbers of farmers out of business completely. so mr aylward’s report is excellent. i am delighted to support it but we have still got plenty of work to do.
mr president, thank you. well, mr martinez, i knew that new zealand sheep were guilty of many things, but i did not realise they ate other sheep, especially european ones! but, to be serious, i thank the rapporteur for a very good report. can i echo the words of mr nicholson that it is great to see you here, commissioner, and i am glad to see that you come from a sheep-keeping area of italy, so i am sure you will be able to shed light on this whole project. sheep farming is extremely good, not only for farming but for the environment, and we talk a great deal today about a great environment for agriculture. but it is in the high-landscape areas, the mountainous areas, the hilly areas in my own area that i represent – exmoor and dartmoor and bodmin moor – that the green landscape is kept by sheep farming. sheep meat and lamb meat is a very healthy red meat. it is also a meat that is fed on grass, and when we now are living in an age where people are saying it takes eight kilos of grain to create one kilo of protein, then do not forget grass-fed meat is extremely valuable. we must go out and market this, because it is a healthy meat but it needs to be marketed, and that is where i say to the rapporteur in his report: marketing is extremely important. i actually want to see a form of grassland payment paid to sheep farmers to keep the sheep on the hillside. i do not want a coupled payment, because i believe all that may do is maintain more sheep than the landscape needs to keep. we have got to have the right number there to keep the landscape but have a good quality sheep that can then be marketed properly. electronic tagging: we are not ready for it. and when you are halfway up a mountain in driving rain, you try to read these new-fangled monitors and the answer is you will not be able to do it. there is no system yet that properly stops the collision of the numbers on the different sheep. and do not forget you are talking about millions and millions of sheep in the european union. we are just not ready, and i would say: leave it to 2012 or beyond.
madam president, i echo the thanks of others to the rapporteur for her work on bringing this initiative forward to parliament. i said last night in one of the debates that we are in a week when there is a lot of soul-searching in the european union about what the idea of europe is for, and how we can re-engage with our citizens and really show the people of europe that we are doing a worthwhile job and protecting them, their families and their interests. i think this is another example, where we are looking at safety measures and at using the most modern technology to help them when they come into difficulties; we are trying to argue that cars should be better equipped. of course, this has a europe-wide dimension, because cars are made in nearly every european country (far fewer are made, i have to say, in the united kingdom than they were before). people drive cars that are french, italian or german, that are made in spain or britain and assembled elsewhere and, of course, we must have transnational legislation to support the highest possible standards. if this means, through this initiative, that we can save lives through getting medical aid around and we can help people who might not otherwise have done to survive when they have an accident, then this is something that the british citizen and the citizens of the other european countries and ireland should be able to gauge into. we may look at this initiative and think this is very much futuristic and not going to happen for while. but it was not such a long time ago – i am thinking of 30 years ago when i got my first car, and i look around the room and perhaps members here may have got their first car longer ago than that – that cars did not automatically have radios in them. now, i do not know whether it is possible to buy a car without a radio, cd player or those sorts of things. now cars, as the previous speaker said, are made to go faster and faster and are more sophisticated than ever: satellite navigation systems, e-systems, as we are talking about here, will be in cars very shortly and they will probably be standard in 20 years’ time. this is something we should welcome, and we should spread the news. therefore, i congratulate all involved.
madam president, can i just first of all warmly welcome antonio tajani and congratulate him on his appointment. it is very important that he is here for this significant debate. i want to pay tribute first of all to zita gurmai, who has done an excellent piece of work, not just in putting this report together but also in promoting the whole of the intelligent car esafety programme. but i just want to say to the commission that it is a remarkable example of how a commission initiative can bring people together across their own services, because as you will know mrs reding and her predecessor mr liikanen were actively involved in this. i am pleased to see my friends andré vits and juhani jaaskelainen sitting behind the commissioner, because they have been instrumental in engaging all the participants together and really making progress; and i echo what robert evans says, it is a remarkable example of how the european institutions can cooperate together without heavyweight legislation and with a clear vision to move forward. my only regret today, mr president – and i hope you will take this up on behalf of parliament – is that the other principal actors in the whole of the intelligent car programme are notably absent from the front row here, because the council has a crucial responsibility here. the member states are responsible in large part for much of the detailed legislation that will help introduce these programmes and help our citizens. where are they here to listen to this debate? i just want to make a couple of remarks to follow up what colleagues have said about the crucial issues of cars and roads. let me say to colleagues who have talked about safety features in vehicles that the whole process of evolution of the industry has been one of technological progress; indeed it is true that safety innovations have started first on more expensive cars with lower volumes, and have then trickled down to become available on cheaper cars. now all cars sold in the european union will have anti-lock braking systems. that is an intelligent system because intelligence, in my view, is collecting and using information. this is what these systems do. once you have that information collection system on, you can then use it for anti-skid systems. the incremental cost is much lower. but if we have the ecall system, then we have all cars equipped with that external information-collection system which is what we want to interact with the intelligent highway systems too, where we are also collecting information. back in my region – and by the way, robert evans, the united kingdom is now producing cars close to its historic high level and we have more car producers making cars in the united kingdom than any other european union country, so please do not run down our car industry – on my local motorway, we have britain’s first intelligent highway which opens lanes and controls speeds according to the traffic flow, and i can tell you that not only does traffic flow more smoothly, but fuel consumption has also been improved: it is a win-win-win situation. that is what this is all about. it is about winning by using intelligence and i hope you will all support it.
mr president, on a point of order, i do not have in front of me parliament’s rules of procedure but i am sure that your services do, so you will forgive me if i rise. this is not related to the gurmai report because we have spoken about that. whilst you were speaking, indeed whilst mrs gurmai was summing up her report, i noticed that there were members of the public coming into the visitors’ gallery. i warmly welcome them and i think it is very good and important that people are coming into the visitors’ gallery, but i am also conscious that as soon as i sit down from this momentous speech that i am making, what will happen is that you will suspend the sitting until 12.00 for the voting period. these poor people, who have come many hundreds of kilometres, will not have the benefit of hearing a debate and a speech this morning. they are getting a little bit from me, but i wonder if it would be possible for you and your assistants to go back to the relevant authorities and look for a way of ensuring that, in the event of the debate finishing at 11.30, as it has done this morning, with nothing scheduled until 14.00, something could be put in to fill the half-hour gap between now and 12 noon, whether it be the urgencies from this afternoon or something else of mind-boggling importance? i am speaking on behalf of these perhaps 100 or so people in the gallery who have come to hear people speaking and all they are going to hear at the moment is me rabbiting on for two minutes about nothing – but making a very serious point. (applause)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
unfortunately we had not been informed that it had been withdrawn, so it was put to the vote anyway. - before the vote on amendment 15:
madam president, on behalf of our group and in the interests of trying to seek compromise and agreement on this, we would be willing to withdraw the subsequent amendment if the rapporteur would accept a small oral amendment, as written in the list, simply to make this less specific in terms of calling for the legally binding ‘directive’ and leaving it as bringing forward ‘measures’. if the rapporteur will agree to that, then we can withdraw the subsequent amendment.
mr bowis, it would seem that there are more than 40 members on their feet, so we cannot deal with the oral amendment. (the oral amendment was not accepted.) – before the vote on amendment 35:
madam president, if nothing else it is a little bit of exercise. the oral amendment suggested to the socialist amendment is on the order paper and i hereby propose it on behalf of our group. we will see if there is a little bout of aerobics coming from across the room.
it’s exercise from one side of the chamber to the other! (the oral amendment was not accepted.)
i would now like to welcome a delegation from the swiss federal assembly to the official gallery. the swiss delegation is headed by mrs brigitta gadient. (applause) it is a pleasure for me to welcome you all to the european parliament in strasbourg where you have been taking part in the 27th eu-switzerland interparliamentary meeting yesterday and today. i know there have been some interesting discussions on developments and the current state of play, and future challenges for the relations between switzerland and the eu, with special emphasis on the eu-swiss dialogue on tax issues, free movement of persons and the experiences from the latest eu enlargements, cross-border service provision and the schengen-dublin agreements, swiss financial contributions to the eu enlargement, and free trade in agricultural products. there is a long relationship between our parliaments – almost three decades – and it has led to the development of a profound knowledge both on the eu side and the swiss side. i am sure that the exchange of views that has taken place this week will enhance our parliamentary cooperation. (applause)
we now continue with the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
madam president, the 40th anniversary seems an opportune moment to address a misapprehension that has existed, i think, in our country ever since your constituents and mine voted to join what they thought was the common market some 35 years ago – the misapprehension concerning the difference between a free-trade area and a customs union. what i think most british people understood by the common market was that there would be mutual product recognition, that if you could sell something in the uk, you should also be allowed to sell it in germany, france and spain and the other way round. but of course what we have instead is standardisation. something is required to contain certain ingredients, to be of a volume of not less than ‘x’ and not more than ‘y’, and even if that product was never intended for export, even if it never crosses frontiers, it can find itself criminalised and prohibited in its own country; and this is often because a rival somewhere in the eu – as often as not in britain – which happens to meet all of a group of specifications anyway, uses the mechanisms of the european union in order to pass on its costs to its rivals. i think it is a shame that we have lost the original concept of free circulation of goods and services in favour of harmonisation, which reduces consumer choice.
madam president, how wonderful it is to see you in the chair. when i give speeches in my constituency of london – for those of you who may have heard of london, the greatest city in the world, capital of the greatest country in the world – it is often pointed out to me by my constituents that they thought in 1973 that we were joining a customs union. then i say, ‘do you not understand the nature of the beast? do you not understand the nature of the european project? it is all about further political and economic integration’. in fact in my first week in parliament the leader of my group, hans-gert pöttering, stood up and said, ‘nothing must be allowed to get in the way of european integration; nothing must be allowed to get in the way of the european project’. so clearly, there is a misapprehension of the nature of the project in my constituency. my plea to you, those of you in this chamber who support the project, is: please be honest about its intentions. if you seek to deny the truth about this project, then, once you ask the people, they will reject it, as they did in the referendum in ireland.
now, mr kamall, i suppose you are going to tell us about fishermen in london?
madam president, i do not think there are any left, thanks to the common fisheries policy! thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain the way i voted on this important debate. but what i would say to my colleagues in the house is, actually, let us look at what the real problem is. whenever there is an international crisis, you seek to blame that for the problems in the fishing industry. actually it is not the rise in fuel prices that is the real problem in the fishing industry. it is the common fisheries policy, a system of central planning that the soviets would have been proud of. i find it amazing that colleagues in this house are so willing to espouse soviet economics. let us look at some of the more successful fish preservation systems around the world. if you look at the ones, for example, in iceland and new zealand, you will find that they are based on the rule of law and property rights and transferable property rights. if we really want to solve the problem in the fisheries industry, it is time to trust the rule of law; it is time to trust property rights; it is time to trust the free market.
madam president, i do not want to speak on this item but the previous item. i was trying to attract your attention. i abstained on the poultry carcass issue, primarily because i believe there is evidence to refute the claims that we need to keep the ban in place. i particularly think there is scientific evidence in place to allow this ban to be lifted. but, in any case, none of this discussion has come to the fore. what we have instead is a very expensive process in europe for cleaning chicken carcasses. that is the real problem because any carcasses that come into the european union would seem to be cheaper; as a result they sell more quickly and obviously suit the consumers. this is not about health claims, this is about protectionism. i think it is a very sad day for europe that we have this particular debate in such a short and truncated way, rushed through as a resolution this week in parliament. i abstained as a result of this and i believe our relationship with the us and with other countries is stained as a result.
madam president, i voted for this report because, as in other sectors, i am concerned to see the eu decline in sheepmeat production against a rising tide of imports. there are not just farm income issues here but pertinent environmental issues because, of all farmed animals, sheep probably contribute the most to the natural upkeep of less fertile areas and the maintenance of biodiversity. environmental degradation of many upland and less-favoured areas will result from diminishing sheep farming. thus the necessity to sustain this industry and contemplate environmentally-linked payments to support it. i also believe a proper country-of-origin labelling regime could greatly help promote growth in consumption of local lamb, particularly with rising imports. finally, the commission’s rush to electronic tagging will impose further costs on a sector already diminishing because of uneconomic returns. at most, such tagging should be voluntary for each member state and region.
madam president, as i said last night, this is a very good report. unfortunately last night the commissioner ruled out possibility of the commission agreeing to the rapporteur’s proposal to have a task force to look at the industry. now i am not a great believer in task forces because the place is littered with them; every time we have a problem we set up a task force and you never hear tell of it again. but i think if we had had better cooperation before we came to this chamber, we could have put forward a firm proposal that would have helped the industry and worked for the industry. now we have got nothing. we have got electronic tagging. we have not got what we asked, that it be put back to 2012. the industry cannot afford it. but i think we will return to this; we have not heard the last of it, because we have got to defend the sheep industry throughout the whole of the european union.
in writing. − british conservatives know how devastating the effects of a natural disaster can be. from the floods in the uk last year, we are aware of the human, economic and environmental damage that can be caused. we also understand the effects such natural disasters have upon other countries. nonetheless, we believe that individual member states are best placed to respond rapidly and appropriately to disasters occurring within their own territory. we believe that the creation of a european civil protection force would merely slow down the capacity for response by adding an extra bureaucratic burden. what those affected require is timely and necessary intervention, not more bureaucracy. finally, we cannot agree with further eu legislation in the area of disaster prevention and response. we consider that adequate legislation already exists at both member state and eu level, and that financial aid is already available through the solidarity fund which serves, as it should, to mitigate structural and long-term damage. in supporting this resolution in the final vote, we wish to make clear that we have also voted in favour of the amendments which called for the deletion of references to the civil protection force and further eu legislation in this area.
in writing. − clearly there is great merit in improved coordination and readiness for mutual assistance of disaster response organisations in european countries. however, as always, the european commission seizes on another opportunity to extend its own remit and responsibilities – here ‘to develop a knowledge base, identify gaps’, etc. the report, against the wishes of british conservatives, also includes a call for legally-binding instruments. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
in writing. − i am strongly in favour of consumers being able to obtain secure, safe, reliable and sustainable supplies of gas and electricity at reasonable prices. national regulatory authorities should play an important role in this. however, i oppose the efforts by the european commission to move into this area, to extend its powers and remit through ‘studies’, a ‘charter’ and ‘harmonisation’, and i do not recognise the concept of ‘citizen of the union’. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
in writing. − the commission proposal to lift the ban on the importation of poultry treated with anti-microbial substances such as chlorine is extremely worrying. it must be recognised that these practices simply do not meet eu standards of food safety. this proposal seems to be politically motivated and blatantly disregards the valid health and safety concerns of eu citizens. assurances that this poultry will be labelled and clearly identifiable to the consumer are simply not adequate. the use of anti-microbial substances in the treatment of poultry should not be promoted by the european union in any way. this ban has been in place more than ten years and was originally implemented with good reason. unfortunately, therefore, the commission proposal to lift it represents a huge step backwards and is totally unacceptable.
in writing. − the fishing industry has faced many crises over the years, but none greater than at present, with rising fuel prices which are pushing the industry over the edge to the point where it can no longer survive. the continuing spiralling price of oil could prove to be disastrous for many industries, but none is more vulnerable than the fishing industry, with jobs at sea and on shore at risk. we must look into all the options which are available to us. one route that should be explored is reducing taxes in order to ensure that fuel costs come down. may i ask the following question: if we do not have fishermen, where will the fish we require come from? are we going to sit back and allow foreign imports to take over our markets and put our industry out of business? saving our fishing fleets and the industry in general will prove to be a massive challenge. however, i am confident that with good will and all-round cooperation it is possible. i welcome yesterday's statement from the commission announcing its intention to provide emergency assistance to fishing fleets. i sincerely hope that these measures will be formally adopted by the council of fisheries ministers next week and then swiftly implemented.
in writing. − my colleague, zita gurmai, has produced an excellent report and needs to be congratulated on her detailed work and the commitment she has shown. the first intelligent car report is a flagship project within the commission’s strategic policy framework for information society and the media, and our rapporteur is right to recognise that intelligent vehicle systems could reduce the annual death toll, currently around 42 000, on the roads of the eu. she is also right to point out that, at present, many people cannot afford the new systems, so the need to bring down costs has to be a priority. electronic stability control technology, the use of portable or nomadic devices and work towards providing cleaner vehicles are all topics covered by the rapporteur. this is an excellent report, and it has my full support.
that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.45 and resumed at 15.00.)
author. − mr president, in 1960, british and italian somaliland looked forward to their dream of independence. but that dream very soon turned sour and i remember as chairman in the british parliament of the british somali group, having this string of refugees coming to tell us first about the authoritarian regime in that country and then, of course, about the factional fighting and the anarchy. somaliland still has a degree of independence and stability, as does puntland. but mogadishu is a name synonymous with violence, murder, riots, hunger and a failed economy. so what do we do? well, we cannot do that much. certainly not individually; probably not as europe. but we can work with other international players to put pressure on the players inside the country to agree to halt the ongoing conflict, to halt violence, to stop the violations of international human rights and to work towards peace. we have got to persuade them to allow humanitarian assistance to reach those most in need, and we have, perhaps, to help them ensure the safety of those humanitarian aid workers. we must appeal to those outside who can help. we appeal to kenya to allow somali refugees to have access to the el wak border and the right to assistance in that country. we appeal to everyone, as has been referred to already, to ensure that we have the embargo on the sale of arms to that country. we insist that those who have committed war crimes must be brought to justice and, where appropriate, to the international criminal court. and, of course, we welcome the un security council’s resolution of may calling for the deployment of 28 000 troops as a peacekeeping force; more realistically, perhaps, we urge that amisom be mandated to take protective action. we need action: not just resolution, but we need international action.
mr president, mr matsakis opened the debate wondering if there was one country responsible for encouraging the whole of the eu to ban the pmoi. i can answer his question: it was the uk. the reason the uk government did this is because the government of iran asked it to. i regret to say that in my country we have a government that will not allow its own people a vote on the referendum on the lisbon treaty and will also insist that the voice of the people of iran cannot be heard anywhere throughout europe. i call upon the uk government, when they vote in westminster next week, to ensure that they remove the ban in accordance with the eu court ruling. for too long the uk government has been part of the problem. it needs to become part of the solution.
mr president, this is a very serious issue. iran is executing young men and women as a means of social control. it is incredible in an age of modern civilisation that young girls and boys are executed, stoned to death or hanged from industrial cranes. we ask and we call for the international community do more, but instead of actually standing together with the international community we hear cries against parts of the international community. we hear condemnation against the usa, for example; we hear differences in this house as to how we will handle it. we will never solve this crisis until we stand as one against this medieval crisis that is occurring in this country. it is something that we must do ourselves.
mr president, i condemn the human rights abuses that occur daily in iran. i believe also that we should lift the ban on the people’s mujahedin, and we should do that as soon as possible. i want to speak out against the death penalty being used against juveniles. i will never forget the picture of two boys who were publicly hung by the neck until they were dead. their crime was that they were young homosexuals who dared to love one another. such inhumanity should be condemned universally. that is why, commissioner, we need a radical change in our policy towards iran. we cannot sit back and wait: there is no more time!
mr president, last month a young palestinian journalist from gaza, mohammed omer, a man in favour of reconciliation and peace with the israelis, was able, with the assistance of the dutch government, to travel to the european union to be presented with an award for his journalism. on his return, he was detained, humiliated, beaten and tortured by the israeli secret service. the dutch government has expressed its shock, i am told, but this behaviour by israel is part of a pattern. why are we considering closer relations with israel when agents of that government perform such acts of violence against the very people whose advocacy of peace and reconciliation will command the support of the vast majority of members here? why are we supporting such moves when we know that that government will do absolutely nothing to criticise or condemn their behaviour?
mr president, i want to demonstrate our solidarity with fujitsu workers in birmingham who are threatened with redundancy. there are plans to relocate part of the fujitsu activities to the us, and this may mean up to 140 people losing their jobs. the union involved in this case is the communication workers union, and it has been admirably flexible in its dealings with fujitsu management. the single-shift system they proposed to fujitsu would have saved 60 jobs, yet in the final board decision on 30 june, with no prior indication from the board that a decision would be reached so quickly, alternative proposals were rejected out of hand. i would ask fujitsu to reconsider the relocation, or at the very least to ensure that the only jobs lost are on a voluntary basis and that those who want to continue to work should be able to do so. eu legislation clearly states that a company must conduct a consultation procedure with its employees, yet again and again employers are doing too little, too late to abide by this legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 july 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the airbus/boeing wto disputes by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0033/2008 – b6-0155/2008).
madam president, any fair-minded person who has followed the two cases at the wto would really come to the conclusion that to use an english phrase ‘it is a six of one and half a dozen of the other’. for example, boeing receives us federal and state government support exceeding the 1992 eu-us agreement; boeing receives subsidies from nasa and the department of defense programmes; boeing benefits from non-competitive military contracts at inflated prices and boeing benefits from the us foreign sales corporation tax breaks, infringing wto law. opposite to that, the us complains that airbus receives launch aid relating to r&d; it receives grants for development and production sites; it receives loans on preferential terms; it receives debt forgiveness relating to large civil aircraft production and development financing; it receives r&d grants directly benefiting airbus and it complains that it receives illegal export subsidies. on a positive side, many eu airlines continue to order boeing aircraft and the us department of defense did award the contract in the first place to the eads northrop grumman tanker. those are positive signs. while both sides have cause for complaint, i am afraid that what we find in this question is naked anti-americanism and a petty, little european mentality. airbus is cast as the angelic saviour of european skies while boeing is the evil american company seeking to unfairly dominate global aviation. i sincerely hope that my group, the epp, does not see fit to support this resolution since it would really show my group at its very worst – anti-american, protectionist and anti-competitive. maybe we are allowing ourselves to be overly influenced by the french presidency, but please let’s not allow the initials epp to stand for the european protectionist party.
madam president, i will be supporting this resolution and the majority of the amendments that have been tabled to it, including those on behalf of my colleague erika mann. in my constituency thousands of jobs depend on airbus directly, particularly in the filton area of bristol, and of course across the united kingdom and in the european union tens of thousands of jobs depend on the success of airbus. i would have criticised mr kamall to his face for his approach, which is widely eurosceptical and anti-european, but as he buggered off within about two minutes of speaking i will not have the opportunity to direct my criticism to himself. i hope it will be reported by one of his colleagues, who will tell him that normally we try and stay to the end of the debates we participate in, rather than call in, speak and then rush off to do your press release. in 1992 there was an agreement between boeing and airbus – or rather between the european union and the united states – to mutually desist from complaining, even though it was to the advantage of boeing, who get direct subsidies from the us government through nasa and the department of defense, whereas airbus merely gets launch loans which have to be repaid with interest. already eur 7 billion have been repaid. in 2004 the united states broke that agreement by referring the whole matter to the wto. the union unite and the management in the united kingdom are united in insisting that we put as much pressure as possible on the united states over this matter. the criticism from boeing and from congress needs to be resisted – and resisted strongly. if we are to lose our competitivity with respect to airbus, leaving boeing alone in the world with a monopoly position, then we will see a loss of contracts and a loss of jobs. a negotiated settlement is clearly the best solution and the best way forward – maybe 1992 plus. but, in its absence, we have no alternative but to vigorously defend our position and the interests of europe’s economy, competitivity and jobs.
mr president, i am not italian and i am not a lefty, so, when i am asked by mr zappalà and mrs angelilli to accept that the intentions of the italian emergency decree are benign, just to make sure that the roma community gets appropriate public services, i think i am entitled to beg to doubt this, given the populist and nasty political rhetoric that has surrounded this issue in recent weeks. the fingerprinting of roma people only is discriminatory and surely illegal – have we forgotten the history of nazi and fascist racial persecution? i think commissioner špidla showed a reasonable degree of commitment to pursuing discriminatory treatment, and i hope he sees it through: he would redeem the commission’s reputation from the example of franco frattini, who merely weeks ago was exhorting us to observe justice and equality and is now an apologist for prejudice. we need a european roma strategy with funds attached to improve the status, education and integration of roma people, rather than marginalising and stigmatising them. if we can have a common agricultural policy surely we can have a common policy for the roma.
mr president, i should like to talk to the commissioner about one of the reports on food additives, and in particularly about the food colourings known as azo dyes. i am extremely pleased that we have some very good news: from now on they will have to be labelled on all food products. i want to congratulate åsa westlund, who has worked very hard to get this. when she started out on this work, nobody was suggesting there could be such progress, and yet we have got progress. it is a real improvement on the status quo. but i do not think it goes far enough. you will be aware i am sure of the study by southampton university last autumn which shows a link between the behaviour of children who are fed a cocktail of different sweets and soft drinks and azo dyes. it is a very serious study; it was published in the lancet. it is peer-reviewed and it is so serious that the united kingdom, through its standards agency, has now called for a ban on these colourings in food products. many companies in europe are voting with their feet and are actually phasing them out voluntarily. the single market is failing on this issue already. it is quite well known that these products have no dietary value, and there are natural flavourings available. i saw something in one of our newspapers asking: ‘do we need an end to smarties?’ (these are very brightly coloured sweets), but there are perfectly good natural alternatives to those colourings available. we do not need to have these colourings. we welcome what has happened today but hope you will keep working with the european food safety authority to speed up its work on reviewing these substances. i do not think people in europe want these artificial colourings, and i think we should be looking more at what people need to have in their food, not what companies want to add. i hope you will push the efsa to work more quickly and to get a resolution to this problem.
rapporteur. − mr president, i rise to present to you a report from the committee on constitutional affairs concerning our rules, where we have examined the question of the threshold – the minimum threshold necessary to constitute a political group in our parliament. all parliaments that have a system of political groups have, of course, a minimum threshold. normally one does not allow a single member or two members to create a political group; it is necessary always to define what that threshold should be. and, as our parliament continues to grow, it is logical that we pause to reflect and think what should be, in the next parliament, the threshold for creating a political group. we have looked at this in detail in the constitutional committee, and the committee’s opinions were fairly evenly divided. there was a majority of one vote against raising the threshold when we looked at it in committee, although, of course, this matter is now before us again in the house. we also looked at groups that exist already but fall slightly below the threshold when one or two members leave and whether it is right that such groups should automatically and immediately cease to exist or whether in some circumstances we should allow such groups to continue to exist. here the committee approved my proposal, which was based on a suggestion of mr bonde, the former co-leader of the ind/dem group, who pointed out to me what difficulties he, as a group leader, could face, leading a group that was just above the threshold, when one, two or three members might threaten to leave the group unless they got their way on something or other, thereby effectively blackmailing the group. on his suggestion, the committee wisely adopted my proposal that, once a group has existed for a certain period of time, we should help the smaller groups by allowing them in such circumstances to have the possibility – we will allow the president of parliament to have some discretion on this – to continue to exist, even if they fall below the threshold, for a limited period of time until the next constitutive session of parliament and provided, of course, they still have a reasonable minimum membership: we cannot allow a group to exist with two or three members. the idea was to find a balance between a reasonable threshold and to give something to the smaller groups, to make sure they are not facing that dire prospect of virtual blackmail by a minority of members within their group who could pull the plug at any moment. as i said, the committee hesitated on raising the threshold – it was a majority of one. but that issue is now before us again. at the moment, if you look around the parliaments of the world, we have one of the lowest thresholds that exist for allowing the constitution of a political group. just 2.5% of our membership can create a political group. when you remember that constituting a group gives those members extra resources above what ordinary members get as a member – extra resources as a group in terms of finance from the taxpayer, in terms of staff and in terms of procedural privileges – it should give us cause to reflect. do we want to give such huge resources to what could frankly be a very small and unrepresentative number of members – 2.55%? my own thought was that this was a very low threshold: it comprises the danger that we give such resources to very small, possibly unrepresentative and even extreme groups. some people have pointed to the extreme right potentially being able to create a group with such a small threshold if ever they won enough seats. that is something that it is legitimate to ask. what is the minimum threshold? my proposal had been to raise it to 4%, which is still rather low if you compare it to national parliaments across our union, still below what is the norm in many national parliaments, but perhaps a reasonable balance. i understand now that some smaller groups that initially opposed this idea are on board for a compromise between the 30 members that i proposed and the 20 members of our current rule; they would be happy to go along with a compromise of 25. changing hats and speaking as the coordinator of my group instead of rapporteur, i can tell colleagues that my group is willing to go along with such a compromise – if indeed it is a compromise – and we can all unite around that. if it is not a compromise – if that is not acceptable – then my group will continue to support the proposal for 30 instead of for 25.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the committee, as we know, tries to be consensual, but tonight the consensus has broken apart, and i have a strong objection to mr corbett’s proposal on the grounds of both principle and practice. i simply cannot accept that the existence of seven groups inside parliament creates a particular problem of efficiency. lessons drawn from national parliaments can only take us so far. here we should reflect on the more complex and wider spread of public opinion from 27 countries. in fact, it is critical at this sensitive phase of integration that all sorts of minority opinions can organise themselves professionally to express themselves in an articulate fashion. groups contribute to, and do not impede, the work of the assembly. mr corbett’s proposal and also the compromise would have the effect of closing the uen and the ind/dem groups. now frequently, perhaps always, i disagree with the opinions of those groups, but they have a perfect right to express their opinions and they certainly represent a specific strand of public opinion. should we close them, their members will be forced to join a larger group, thereby complicating affairs and increasing the incoherence of those groups. alternatively, they will swell the ranks of the non-inscrits. so, to conclude, and in the interests of efficiency, pluralism, coherence, fairness and liberalism, please support the committee’s position and reject the amendments.
mr president, this debate is about the nuts and bolts of parliament, and it is our duty to ask if the proposals about groups are practical. it was certainly with practicalities in mind, faced with the basic requirement of 30 members, that i submitted my amendment – i think it was my amendment, mr corbett – which enabled the president of parliament, with the agreement of the conference of presidents, to allow a group to continue its work for a limited period if it fell below that particular threshold. in committee it was generally agreed this was a good idea to avoid a group being held hostage by a member threatening to leave and thereby instantly disbanding such a group. that is why i am somewhat attracted by this new compromise which has been proposed for a limit of 25 members. it does seem to me to be a sensible idea, which would alleviate one of the difficulties i was referring to when i prepared my amendment. we must always remember, however, that we were elected to represent the views and interests of our electorate as a whole. it is a fact that our european electoral spectrum spans an ever-wider variety of opinion, which is good for democracy. it is not just the number of members which increases in this parliament; it is also the diversity of views which they bring with them. if we are successfully to fulfil our parliamentary mandate, we must have the opportunity to fully mirror the views of our national electorates. a small group in the european parliament here may well represent a large body of opinion in member states. we need to be able to work constructively as a parliament and also, most importantly, in line with the wishes of the people that we represent, however that is formulated in the disposition and composition of our groups. so, whilst i welcome this possible compromise, i welcome a sensible and pragmatic approach to this matter. i hope that we do not allow ourselves to fall into the trap of assuming that fewer groups necessarily means more democracy.
mr president, this parliament frequently talks about openness, transparency and democracy, but does not always display it. in this instance, the rapporteur, mr corbett, has been very open and transparent about what he seeks to achieve: he wants to make it harder for small groups to form and function; he wants to deny them the resources and privileges they are currently entitled to, which enables them to represent the will of those who elected them. mr corbett wants to put political groups that he does not approve of out of business if he possibly can. this is totally undemocratic. why should not the will of european electors be expressed in political groups, formed by those they elect, however small those groups may be. why not? because mr corbett does not think they should be allowed to! these rules, if adopted, would, for example, put my own – the independence and democracy group – out of business. the ind/dem group was, of course, formed to oppose the european constitution, and we have been very successful, having spent money on the ‘no’ campaigns in the french, dutch and, most recently, irish, referendums. that is why mr corbett and other europhiles want to try to put us, and any group like us elected after 2009, out of action if they can. his totally undemocratic credentials are transparent for all to see.
mr president, it is very simple to recognise the agenda of those who are pressing for an increase in the qualifying size of political groups in this house. it is quite patently a blatant attempt to squeeze out the smaller groups, who are more often than not more likely to be less enthusiastic – indeed likely to be quite questioning of the precious european project. mr corbett is effectively looking for the steamroller approach in politics. that is why he is leading the charge tonight in defiance of the committee’s democratic decision. it has been well said that you can judge a parliament, its worth and its integrity by how it treats it minorities. by the standards of this report, mr corbett would have this parliament regress further into the undemocratic cabal of large groups, where decisions are not taken in this house but are taken in deals between the two main parties.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have enjoyed this debate. i have enjoyed the wild allegations that have been made about this change, that raising the threshold for creating a group in this parliament from 20 to 25, or perhaps 30, would somehow be the end of democracy and the end of pluralism in parliament. what utter nonsense! this is a modest proposal. even 30 would be well below the threshold that exists in most national parliaments, which we all find perfectly democratic. so why not here? the idea that this is an attack on existing groups is nonsense. i was glad the uen group spokesman recognised his group would not be affected. i was surprised that mr batten thought his group would be affected. i thought he was expecting to gain seats in the next european elections. i rather think they will lose seats and that they will be annihilated so that they would not even meet the existing thresholds. so they will not be affected one way or the other in any case. as for the idea that this is targeting a particular viewpoint such as eurosceptics, as was alleged, also what nonsense! eurosceptics have always been represented in this parliament, well represented, have almost always had a political group and i am sure that will continue to be the case. they represent a small but significant strand of public opinion and of course they should take part in our debates. that will not be changed by this proposal. this proposal is not a radical one. it is a sensible, common-sense, practical proposal to examine what is a sensible level in an expanded parliament to have a threshold for creating a political group. it is not a radical proposal, it does not target anybody. i am glad that many groups are seeing the sense of compromising between the two views on this matter and finding a compromise around the modest proposal of 25.
rapporteur. − mr president, i hope colleagues will bear with me yet again taking the floor on a question of changes to the rules of procedure, which always seem to be on a monday night. as colleagues will be aware, parliament has had a working group very ably chaired by our colleague dagmar roth-behrendt which has been looking into improving the workings of our parliament. we have shifted from being a talking shop to a co-legislature. whatever happens to the lisbon treaty, that change has already essentially taken place. it is therefore rational and logical that we should look at how we organise our work. one major aspect of that is inevitably and rightly a shift away from own-initiative reports from committees, with no legislative impact, to focussing more on legislation. that is the first and perhaps most important part of the package of proposals that i tabled before you today. the working group’s proposals, of course, were wide-ranging: only a few of them require adjustment to our rules, but this is one of them. the idea here is that we should differentiate between the types and significance of own-initiative reports. some, of course, will continue to merit full discussion and voting in plenary; but perhaps some really do not. we should not turn this chamber into a drafting committee that rewrites, paragraph by paragraph, a detailed own-initiative report on a specialist subject by a specialist committee. i would have liked to have gone further and ask: why do such reports, that type of own-initiative report, not stand in their own right as a report of the committee? reports of the house of lords, that we all talk about, are reports of house of lords’ committees: they are not voted on and rewritten by the chamber of the house of lords, they stand on their own merits – often very good, deep, analytical reports. they do not use the lords as a revising chamber, paragraph by paragraph. we should not do that either for this type of own-initiative report. with this rule change, that will be possible; we will, of course – that is the compromise – still put the report to the chamber to give a yes or no to it. we will also allow groups that disagree with it to table an alternative motion for a resolution, but we will not start voting for hours on hours, paragraph by paragraph, to redraft a committee report of that sort. that, then, i think is a first, very important change. another change, of a completely different sort, is to liven up our debates and the way we conduct our speaking time. the role of the rapporteur will be enhanced: the rapporteur will present the committee’s report which is in response to the commission’s legislative proposal, immediately stating what the parliament thinks of the commission proposal, and will wrap up the debate at the end, perhaps answering the points that different members have made in the way that i attempted to do just now in our previous debate. that is something that should liven up our debates and is well worthwhile. there is, however, one detail which seems to have attracted a lot of comments: this is the suggestion that we should have guidelines for written parliamentary questions in the same way that we already have guidelines for questions at question time to the other institutions. i do not see why there is such a drama about this. it is not an attempt to create a power of censorship over questions. it is simply saying in the guidelines that written parliamentary questions, just like questions for question time, should be within the remit of the institution that is being asked to answer the question. that seems logical and rational, yet it is missing at the moment. the fact that it is missing has allowed one member of this house to table over a thousand parliamentary written questions on subjects that have nothing whatsoever to do with the european union. that has clogged up the system, making all the rest of us wait longer for our answers, costing a fortune because all such questions have to be translated into every language, circulated around the commissioners for a collective reply and collegiate reply, and is a waste of our time and resources. simply laying down guidelines to say that questions have to be within the remit of the european union and of the institutions seems to be sensible. and who should judge this? under my proposal, our president, the president of parliament, should judge this. if we lay down guidelines, we will not leave it to the commission to judge that and say: ‘no, we are not answering that question or this question’. no, we will decide – and that is something to protect members and should be a guarantee for members. i am surprised that some members who are not here tonight have seen fit to attack that in an e-mail to all members of parliament. these are modest, sensible proposals coming out of the working group of vice-presidents and dagmar roth-behrendt, and i commend them to the house.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is a pleasure that i can be more consensual in this speech than in my previous one. the liberal group strongly supports the thrust of the reforms that are encapsulated in this set of proposals, especially upon the parliamentary questions. i think it is quite correct that we dropped the rapporteur’s first proposal to cap or to restrict the number of parliamentary questions that could be asked. frankly, i would propose two further minor improvements. the first is to broaden the procedure to stop bad quality committee reports – and sometimes, regrettably, there are some – from sliding through the plenary without improvement and here it would be appropriate to permit the committee itself and not simply the rapporteur or two political groups or 10% of the membership of parliament to table amendments. my second proposal is to add a catch-the-eye phase to the new sort of short presentation proposed by the rapporteur. i think that these two changes would slightly broaden the chance for parliamentary debate and exchange while not destroying the purpose of the working group which is, of course, to streamline and to vitalise the proceedings of the assembly.
mr president, in its original incarnation, this report was far more draconian and anti-democratic than its final version. our euro-fanatical rapporteur showed much of his true colours when he proposed diminishing the rights of elected members in this house to dare to ask questions of the unelected commission and of the council; hence, his monstrous proposal to restrict members to three questions per month. happily he had to beat a hasty retreat but his report still bears some of the repressive character that lay behind that proposal. in particular, the veto which he seeks to give the president over what can be posed in a question is unacceptable; not least since this present president does not enjoy the confidence of everyone in this house, given his inability to abide dissent, as was evidenced by his punitive action against those in this house who dared to demand the right of their electorate to have national referenda on the lisbon treaty. the president showed his intolerance, and a president handed censorship powers which will enable him to protect the european elite against probing questions from members – such a president will gladly exercise that censorship. therefore it is foolish, it is wrong and it is undemocratic to bind and to gag members in this house in the way that our rapporteur, not surprisingly, seeks to do.
mr president, sometimes when writing these short speeches, it strikes me that it would really take the talent of a george orwell to do justice to these reports. this report from the unconscious satirist and humorist, mr corbett, is a case in point. what monumental undemocratic arrogance it is to suggest that members of this parliament should have their questions to the council and commission censored! we are told that this is to avert abuses by the right or stop use of offensive language. perhaps mr corbett is concerned that we might ask questions about some commissioners’ criminal records or their past careers as apparatchiks of eastern european communist regimes, or perhaps about former eu presidents’ alleged careers as kgb agents? recently the president of parliament assumed arbitrary powers to control the right of meps to speak in this chamber. now mr corbett wants to censor what meps can say on behalf of their constituents to the council and the commission. if i may respond to mr corbett’s comment about my speech in the last debate, i was of course referring to his proposed rules on the formation of political groups in relation to the independence-democracy group as it is currently constituted. it is the labour party that is facing annihilation in britain. one reason is its europhile fanaticism, and i can assure him that in 2009 uk independence party meps will return here in even greater numbers.
rapporteur. − mr president, after our previous debate i am glad to see that we are still friends and that we can reach a wider consensus on these issues. just let me clarify a couple of points that have given rise to controversy. on parliamentary questions: we are not proposing any limit to parliamentary questions, we are simply saying that the same guidelines that we as a parliament have already adopted for question time questions should apply to written questions, namely that they should be within the remit of the european union and of the institution called upon to answer them. questions about hospitals in the uk under the national health service and the moving of staff from one hospital to another, which have nothing to do with the european union, should not be parliamentary questions costing a lot of money at european level. this seems to me to be common sense: only ukip and their friends can describe it as some sort of conspiracy or some sort of censorship. censorship? on criteria that we ourselves decide, that our president is called upon to rule on, not the commission or the council? if that is censorship, then my goodness… the second question that gave rise to some controversy was speaking time. perhaps i did not explain this fully earlier. we will keep the two options that we have now for organising debates, and add a third one. at the moment we can have a full debate, which can already be a short debate with one speaker per political group. we also now have the option of the simplified procedure where the rapporteur simply makes a two-minute statement at the time of the vote: we will keep that. what we are proposing is to add a third option: the short presentation, where the report is consensual and own-initiative, etc. and does not merit a full debate, though the latter always remains an option. under the short presentation procedure, the rapporteur presents the conclusions of the committee, the commission responds and everybody else if they wish can make an extra contribution in writing. that increases the number of options available to parliament; it does not restrict the rights of any members. it multiplies the flexibility with which we can deal with these issues, and again i commend it to the house. finally a couple of short questions. in response to mr rübig, the questions and answers are already on line. they are visible to all members; perhaps we should make more use of this, but they are there, that is a tool that is available. to mr baringdorf i would say yes, the report does distinguish between different types of own-initiative report. the type of legislative initiative to which he was referring would not come under this simplified procedure that we are proposing: that would go through the normal procedures, as that particular type of legislative initiative merits. so we have catered for that. as for the very strange remarks by mr batten from ukip and his reference to the next european elections, we shall see. yes, his party won as many seats as the liberal democrats in the last european elections in the uk, having outspent them, i think, by a factor of 10 – mr duff is nodding, so i suppose that is right. we will see how many millionaires he gets to contribute to his campaign this time; but i hope that this time there will be greater awareness, having seen their performance in the european parliament over these last five years, of what it actually means when you elect somebody from ukip to this place. and if the electorate is aware of that then i am sure they will not do so well in the next european elections.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you will understand that this report is very important not only for this house but also for the public, as marcin libicki has already said. 30 000 signatures demonstrate the concern there is around the coast of the baltic sea, which has been described as a sea dying of pollution. it's very shallow. at the bottom, it still has military vessels from the second world war. the question is: is it really the most sensible thing to drive an energy pipeline along the bottom of this particular part of the european union? i have the honour of writing the opinion for the committee on foreign affairs, and, as well as the environmental issues which the committee on petitions has looked at, we were also concerned about the nature of the environmental assessment study to which the commission has just referred. in your reply, commissioner, could you confirm that you will accept parliament's paragraph 20 of the libicki report, which calls upon you and the commission to carry out an independent environmental assessment? there is some concern that if the proposers commission an environmental assessment it might lack objectivity. we also call on all littoral states around the baltic sea - all nine, including russia - to be fully consulted and thus to be fully involved in the maintenance and security of such a pipeline were it to be constructed. the commission has already stressed the importance of recognition of international and european law and we would add that liability by the company is also necessary. the appropriate insurance should be taken out to cover any potential risk or damage caused by the project, either in its construction or thereafter. finally, we insist upon the principle of reciprocity. yesterday's failed attempt to remove the bp-tnk chief executive by russian partners does not bode well for mutual understanding between eu companies and russian companies. we look for harmony in this exercise, but we also look for the commission to follow this project very carefully, and as the rapporteur has pointed out, and two commissioners to the hearing, the current proposal as tabled by nord stream is unsatisfactory. i would just like to finish by saying that my group will be voting in favour of the libicki report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is an incredibly important multifaceted report, and it covers a very difficult bundle of european issues, not just the environmental. it is noteworthy that it comes to us via the route of the committee on petitions, and it is to the credit of that committee that it manages to bring together opinions from across the spectrum of this house, through hearings and this report, to try to get a synthesised view. the guiding principle of my group in dealing with this report has been very much to try to adopt a european set of answers to european problems. fundamentally, the pipeline underlines the need, if ever we needed it underlined, for a european approach to energy supply. it is not appropriate that different countries do different things with different partners. we need a community response which is underlined by the principle of solidarity. there has been much said about the environment, and the commissioner has given some good answers to do with european environmental law, international legal obligations, but we need to build confidence here; we need to ensure, as far as possible, that european standards are adhered to and that there is a coordinated, coherent european approach to the environmental issues. then of course we come to the very difficult subject of eu-russia relations. we have a golden opportunity here: in the baltic sea area, in the high north, we have the northern dimension partnership. let us use that vehicle, which has been one of the success stories of eu-russia relations, to help us here. lastly i leave you with this positive thought. in my own constituency of yorkshire there is a small village that is now linked with a small village in norway by the largest undersea gas pipeline across and through the north sea. that has built people-to-people relationships that will last for a very long time. that is positive.
mr president, we all remember why afghanistan was invaded in the first place: it followed the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the usa, masterminded by al-qa’ida from bases in afghanistan under the protection of the taliban. the usa, along with its allies, most notably the uk, launched a successful attack to displace al-qa’ida from its stronghold. the west’s serious military forces did what was needed to be done to confront terrorism. this report states that the presence of nato is essential in order to ensure the country’s future. it is true that only the combined military force of the free and democratic world united in nato can defend our democratic freedoms from attack, but i am very dubious about the chances of grafting democracy onto a country that has no history of it, especially where the monopoly religious ideology is one that is antipathetic to the west’s view of liberal democracy.
mr president, i refer back to point 16 in the resolution where we say that ‘afghanistan’s security problems are more complex than just a war on terror and that they therefore require more than a military solution’. this is the point that i think my colleagues mr rouček and mr pohjamo made earlier on. we know of many examples in history showing that military power can in many circumstances force an end to conflict and create a quasi-peaceful solution, but we also know from those historical lessons that only democratic institutions, with the support of the people of these countries, can secure a lasting solution. we were making progress in this area in afghanistan, and commissioner ferrero-waldner is right when she says that the afghanistan government must now show a clear respect for human rights and freedom of expression if this is to be restored. in the last elections i saw women voting in afghanistan, which is a major step forward. these are the sort of things we have got to build on, and we must work with pakistan so that we can restore peace in that area.
madam president, i have just returned from helmand and kandahar. i agree that there will be no progress without stability; stability means good governance and it means troops and it means police. i think that some of our european allies are merely paying lip-service in terms of what they are doing in afghanistan. we need more combat forces there; we need greater flexibility; we need greater support for the isaf mission in afghanistan. as far as the police mission is concerned, the eu is doing a good job there, but it is doing nothing in comparison with the scale of the american effort. there should be proper coordination between what the europeans and what the americans are doing in terms of police training. finally i should like to condemn the remarks that were made by mr brie when he talked about the taliban and the americans in the same breath: i think that was disgraceful. the taliban are murdering their own people, the allies are there supporting the local population.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr liese for his excellent work on this file. i am only sorry that despite his best efforts the agreement we have before us today is one that my group can support only very reluctantly. that is a direct result of the deeply disappointing lack of ambition shown by the council. for years now, governments have been talking with such enthusiasm about the ets as the great answer to ensuring that aviation makes a real contribution to emissions reductions. trading does indeed have the potential to play a useful role, but everything depends on the design of the scheme. because of the council’s intransigence the agreement we have today is a far cry from what is really needed and represents starkly the enormous gap between our governments’ rhetoric on climate change and the degree of political will that they are actually willing to muster. this agreement lacks crucial aspects, like a gateway to limit the degree to which aviation can just carry on business as usual by buying up emission permits from other sectors. it lacks full auctioning of emission permits despite the fact that it fulfils the commission’s criterion of being able to fully pass on the costs, and it lacks a cap which is anywhere near as demanding as that required of other sectors. now parliament has done its best, and the agreement before us does at least represent some improvements on the common position. it is a small step in the right direction, but it is also a truly missed opportunity for what could have been. in order for it to become meaningful and for aviation emissions to be genuinely addressed we must now make sure the efforts are rapidly scaled up and given the environmental integrity they urgently need.
madam president, thank you to peter liese, matthias groote and the other shadow rapporteurs for getting us what i consider to be a good agreement. it could have been better but it does establish some very important principles about auctioning and about the use of the resources. it also shows that europe is serious about climate change. madam minister, you said that we want to show the world that we can tackle climate change, that we do not just talk the talk at european summits, but that we walk the walk in legislation in the european union. i think the agreement here today is a good sign that we can, if we want to, get the agreement on the climate change package before the end of the year. but you will have heard, as will the commissioner, people in this house suggesting that they are not so happy with the agreement put together by mr liese. i would ask them what the alternative is. what are they suggesting instead if they do not think europe should take a lead on aviation? what are we going to take a lead on? what are we going to do about the emissions trading scheme? are we going to wait until something in the white house changes? minister and commissioner, i hope that you will both stick to your guns and that we will work together with mrs doyle on the emissions trading scheme. this is an agreement on aviation. we want to work on shipping as well. if we are asking citizens to play their part in tackling climate change, we have to do our bit here in this european union on legislation. so i ask those on the other side of the house, who are not here now, but who have expressed doubts, to come up with alternatives if they have better ones.
madam president, the ets with cap and auctioning should replace all aviation taxes, air passenger taxes and any potential tax threatened on aviation fuel. ets is much more effective than taxes in actually reaching our emissions targets. the cost to passengers, freight forwarders and airlines will be related directly to the emissions they cause and governments will not be able to justify padding out their treasury shortfalls with spurious green taxes on aviation and the travelling public. ets is the honest way to achieve our emission targets, and aviation ets is the honest way for aviation and its customers to play their appropriate part, and only their appropriate part, in this important purpose.
, i scríbhinn – ó 1990 i leith méadaíodh astuithe gáis cheaptha teasa ó eitlíocht idirnáisiúnta an ae le breis agus faoi dhó agus is í is cúis le idir 5% -12% d'astuithe iomlána dé-ocsaíd charbóin an ae. cé nach bhfuil an beart comhréitigh saor ó locht, ceadaíonn sé dúinn teorainneacha a chur le hastuithe thionscadal na heitlíochta ag tosú sa bhliain 2012. nuair a chuirtear an eitlíocht san áireamh i scéim trádála astuithe an ae (sta) táimid ag tabhairt teachtaireachta go bhfuilimid dáiríre faoi chúiseanna an athraithe aeráide. beidh an chéad deich mbliana eile ríthábhachtach maidir le dul i ngleic le hathrú aeráide agus damáiste do-athraithe a sheachaint. is tábhachtach go gcuirfidh an t-athbhreithniú ginearálta éilimh níos righne ar an earnáil eitlíochta san áireamh mar aon le spriocanna laghdaithe níos righne ó 2013 anonn. faoi na rialúcháin nua, is féidir leis na ballstáit ioncaim ó cheantanna astuithe a úsáid le haghaidh bearta maolaithe agus oiriúnaithe ar athrú aeráide laistigh den ae agus i dtíortha i mbéal forbartha agus chun taighde agus forbairt iompair aeráidchairdiúil a chur chun cinn. is riachtanach an infheistíocht seo má táthar chun tairbhe iomlán a bhaint as buntáistí a bhaineann leis an eitlíocht a thabhairt isteach sa sta.
mr president, i was trying to catch your eye just now, but you did not see me. when we checked the voting on amendment 49, it was 474 in favour, 181 against, and you said, ‘approved, as i said’. however, you had not said ‘approved’: you had called it ‘rejected’.
mr president, it is very simple. we are simply asking for a split vote at the semicolon, in other words just following the words ‘it is of great importance that russia show good will regarding cooperation in the european energy policy;’. we would like a split vote there. we, on this side of the house, consider that it is unnecessary and the first part of the amendment could be misinterpreted, but we would like to support the second part, which stresses the importance of russia ratifying the energy charter.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, because i support the approach that has been taken. i welcome the harmonisation of the use of food additives in flavourings across the eu. a single regulation on food additives will help monitor, update and amend existing legislation in this area and contribute towards greater food safety. i am concerned very deeply about the risk that such additives and flavourings have on health and also the impact on children, with some e numbers damaging to their intelligence, and they can also cause allergies and other diseases. however, whilst we need greater transparency and better food labelling, we need to be mindful of the diverse populations who live in europe and who are used to using ingredients from across the globe, such as herbs and spices, where entire contents may not be readily available. so we need to ensure that we do not restrict consumer choice and allow people to continue to be able to use herbs and spices that have been used for centuries.
mr president, i, along with most conservatives, take the view that there is an urgent need for reform of this parliament. i have had the great privilege during my life of serving not just here but in the house of commons and in local authorities in the united kingdom. i have to say that in those other bodies – local authorities and the national parliament – there is greater democracy and participation than here in this parliament. what we need to see is an engagement of members of this parliament in the procedures in the debates. there is no debate here, there is no argument, there is no fire, there is no enthusiasm, and the problem with this report of mr corbett – well intentioned, i am sure – is that it will give the president of this parliament even greater powers. that is wrong! what we should be about, if we are sensible in the years that lie ahead, is giving the members greater powers and the president reduced powers. that is the reason why i voted as i did.
mr president, you might well ask yourself why i stand up and give explanations of vote on most things in this place: it is simply because of things like the corbett reforms. as an individual with slightly different views to the big group that i sit within, i am pretty much excluded from giving speeches in the course of the main debate, and that surely is a reason why in this place we should encourage more democracy, more smaller groups, and giving powers to individual members. every time i see a corbett report, i think to myself that in reality richard corbett is to the european parliament what wormtongue was to king théoden in lord of the rings. every time he says we are having more democracy, we take a step backwards. there is something seriously wrong going on in this parliament at the moment. it is sinister, it is anti-democratic and it is badly wrong. that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, a few months ago a number of parliamentarians, including myself, thought to use existing parliamentary procedure to delay the vote on the constitution, dressed up as the lisbon treaty. at the time, the president ignored the rules to curtail explanations of vote. later, he granted himself arbitrary powers via the committee on constitutional affairs. now the corbett report seeks further restrictions on the democratic rights of members to ask questions to the commission and to the council. how can this house claim to fill the so-called democratic deficit when the rights of members are curtailed by anti-democratic forces? surely, the test of any democracy is tolerance of dissenting views or of minority views. what steps, we have to ask, will be taken next? who will stop this us going down this slippery slope in the name of so-called efficiency? maybe dressed-up dictatorship is preferred over democracy. please, open your eyes: let us fight for democracy.
mr president, it is perhaps surprising that conservatives and myself had a separate whip on this and in the end took the view that although we are all in favour of firm budgetary control of the european union – in fact we have suffered for far too long from the auditors refusing to sign off the accounts of the european union – nevertheless we took a different view on this report. why? because it makes repeated references to the lisbon treaty. the message has to be sent to those who are influential in these matters: the lisbon treaty is dead. the irish people in their great wisdom have rejected that treaty by democratic vote, and although people in brussels and people here in strasbourg will work and cajole and bribe and intrigue to try and persuade the irish to change their minds, the decision of the people should prevail, and in this case ireland has stood for the people of europe. let their voice stand.
mr president, as your colleagues beside you will tell you, i always try to take the floor on budget matters. i very much enjoyed working with jutta haug, the budget rapporteur, this year. it was when she had the budget the last time that i managed to table just under 500 amendments to her budget for discussion in committee, and a number of those came forward to plenary. she is a good person to work with and she understands many of the problems that i have with those elements of the lisbon treaty that are already being budgeted for, supposedly under the legal basis of financial perspectives agreed at council – although i am pretty sure that is not correct. she understands that i have a big problem with lots of ngos being funded by the commission budget to lobby the commission to do more things in a bizarre symbiotic relationship that should no longer go forward, and she knows i have a very special relationship with the special olympics movement, which should benefit from the european budget at some point in the future. in all those matters i have great respect for the rapporteur, but i wonder whether anybody else in this place pays any attention to the budget, apart from the small number of budget geeks who exist in just a couple of committees in this place.
mr president, i wanted to give an explanation of vote on this issue simply to make one point. in afghanistan today the united states and britain and one or two other countries are making a stand. they are making a stand against what i believe to be the greatest threat to europe since the second world war, and that is the threat of international terrorism. the problem is that there are a number of european countries which are not making that stand. yes, they are in afghanistan. yes, some of their forces are there, but the brunt of the attack is being taken – i have to be frank – by the british and american troops, and i pay tribute to the bravery particularly of the british troops and to the young men and women who have sacrificed their lives in this cause. we should have learnt the lesson in europe that you cannot appease those who wish to destroy you. that lesson should have been learnt in the 1930s; it should have been learnt in relation to soviet communism – but i am afraid to say it has not yet been learnt, and it is important that it is.
mr president, i would like to thank the interpretation staff once again for hanging around for so long, eating into their lunch breaks, listening to our explanations of vote. if we had not had the corbett report and all these things that make us give explanations of vote at these times, we could all have gone to lunch a lot earlier. firstly, i would like to associate myself with the words of mr eoin ryan. i thought he eloquently put one of the biggest problems that we have with afghanistan. i was also going to make the same points as my wise colleague, mr david sumberg. i cannot believe the general cheek of this place even talking about this subject, when you consider how many of our member states have got their troops in frontline action in afghanistan. i have lots of constituents, two of whom have recently come back in body bags from afghanistan, and i promise you, no one wants to put troops in harm’s way, but this really is a vital cause for us. i detest the general anti-americanism of this place. i certainly do not understand the anti-military feel of this place and there are some people here who are pretty gutless in their actions, who throw stones from the safety of this place, while others are actually putting their lives at risk to improve a situation for us all.
in writing. − i support the recommendations contained within the rosati report. further clarification of elements of the vat directive such as the right to deduct will benefit smes who could have been faced with unnecessary bureaucracy under old provisions. i therefore, voted in favour of the report's proposed changes.
in writing. − boguslaw sonik's report "protocol on strategic environmental assessment to the 1991 un/ece espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context" is to be supported. environmental and health concerns need to be taken into account when promoting sustainable development. i voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. − i voted against this report as a gesture to protest against the failure of the commission and the council to act to deal with the problems of tax havens in europe. of course liechtenstein is not alone as a tax haven in europe, but the only way these microstates will be persuaded to act will be by putting them under political pressure. yet we continue to treat them and their citizens with kid gloves, even as their banking rules and secrecy deprive member states of billions of euros every years.
in writing. − president, i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the renewal of the science and technology agreement between europe and india will be more meaningful, as to date, scientific cooperation has not fulfilled it's full potential. up until now, this has been a paper agreement and i hope the new agreement will really translate into concrete actions on both sides. science and technology is a key component of the eu-india strategic partnership and one of the most promising areas for cooperation, where both parties set to gain from collaboration. strengthening the existing agreement is a positive thing, however, this new agreement should focus on the key challenges that we are faced with, in particular climate change, energy security and health epidemics. there is a real opportunity to pool resources in research and development to achieve common solutions. finally, i would also like to highlight this agreement offers an opportunity not just to collaborate on major global issues but also to make a significant difference to people's lives in india who still do not have access to basic technology. europe, by transferring some of its existing technology, can aid india's economic and social development.
in writing. − mr gargani's report investigates possibilities for the european parliament to defend their prerogatives before national courts. currently, the parliament is unable to defend its decisions before a national court of justice to defend its decisions. i welcome this own-initiative report that aims to find ways to improve coherence in policy implementation among member states.
in writing. − i welcome asa westlund's proposal for a regulation establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings. improved transparency in the authorisation procedure for such ingredients would further bolster consumer protection across europe. the consumer should be equipped with all the tools necessary to make an informed choice on the food available on our shelves. i voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in support of ms westlund's report on food additives. a recent study by southampton university has alerted this chamber to the potential dangers of azo dyes, used to colour certain sweets and drinks. including these dangers on labelling is an important step to protect consumers from the adverse effects these additives can cause, such as hyperactivity in children. eu-wide regulation on such additives is essential and i commend the rapporteur on her report.
in writing. − i support wholeheartedly attempts that are being made by this report to label products that use additives containing azo colours. i believe that if consumers are to be given a choice to end the use and consumption of such additives in their own families then a labelling process is a fair compromise. the contribution the azo colours have to poorer health and possible behavioural problems is becoming clear. it is right to act now to promote the best standards we can.
in writing. − the need for proper labelling of food additives and the phasing out of some is essential to protect, in particular, children’s health. i welcome åsa westlund’s reports and commend them to the house.
in writing. − i welcome mojca drčar murko's report on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods. i believe the report safeguards the concepts of food safety and consumer protection. it is important that consumers across europe are not misled as to the nature of the flavouring present in their food. ‘natural flavouring’ should mean exactly that and i support the report's recommendations in ensuring that this is the case. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − ms doyle’s report seeks to harmonise the control of food enzymes. obliging industry and member states to inform the commission of any possible safety issue with regards to enzymes is a positive step in securing the maximum possible standards of food safety across the union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i welcome mr liese’s report on the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading system. the parliament needs to make clear its commitment to combating climate change and introduce ambitious environmental legislation. the decisions reached in discussions with the council appear to move in the right direction. 15% auctioning for aviation emissions with a view to increase this in 2013 appears a satisfactory compromise. while i support the report’s recommendations, the parliament must continue to be ambitious in setting targets for aviation emissions in the eu ets and look ahead to building upon mr liese’s proposals for the general review of the ets. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i will be supporting the liese report today because the report is balanced and practical, if somewhat complicated. civil aviation has to recognise that it needs to be involved in an emission trading scheme, and environmentalists need to recognise that people want to fly and the aviation industry contributes greatly to the economic well-being of many of our regions as well as national economies. i still believe that this agreement has problems. i still believe the provision of the 100% auction by 2020 could cause serious problems for small and regional airlines. however, what we have here is a compromise solution. i still believe this regulation will face challenges, legal and otherwise by countries outside the eu, particularly the usa and russia, making a worldwide agreement difficult to achieve. but this is a start and for that we must congratulate the commission for its courage and foresight. the aviation industry is struggling at the moment mainly due to high fuel prices, which is why a compromise on ets was essential. i know the airlines are unhappy; i know the environmentalists are unhappy. maybe then our rapporteurs got it about right!
in writing. − the inclusion of aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme should be welcomed.
in writing. − mr corbett’s proposals to amend the parliament’s rules of procedure concerning the work of plenary and initiative reports allows for the parliament to work more effectively and efficiently. i voted in support of mr corbett’s recommendations.
in writing. − i believe that no eu budget programmes should be funded by my country under any actual or potential circumstances. the european external action service and all other aspects of the lisbon treaty are completely anathema to me. therefore, whilst any delay to the funding of such programmes is welcome, i cannot support an amendment which accepts in principle that the eeas, together with other new budget programmes contained in the treaty, should indeed be funded at "such time as the treaty is ratified by all 27 member states". whether ratification by all states is probable or not, it remains possible, i cannot condone an amendment which establishes certain circumstances under which the proposers will recognise as legitimate, in principle, the funding of the eeas and other new budget programmes contained within the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i could not support this amendment because i completely oppose the creation and funding of the eeas and other such programmes reliant on the ratification of the lisbon treaty. it is indeed an important point to make that programmes to be established by the so-called lisbon treaty have no legal basis until that treaty is ratified by all 27 member states: however, i reject all such programmes in their entirety and do not believe they should be created or funded at any point.
in writing. − a project on the scale of the nordstream gas pipeline requires full and thorough examination of the environmental implications involved. before the project can start, we must make sure that the project meets stringent environmental criteria. these views are reflected in my vote on marcin libicki's report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the baltic sea to link up russia and germany.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the committee on petitions took this initiative to bring this report on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the baltic sea to a vote. meps need to inform themselves of the consequences of this proposal.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party welcomes this parliament report. when the taliban fell in 2001 there were only 900,000 children in school. that figure is now 6 million and rising. five million refugees have returned home and 82% of the population have access to healthcare, nine times the figure in 2002. however we share parliament’s deep concern about continued problems on security, and that without security there can be no return to normal life. however, we abstained on the report as a number of points do not reflect the reality of the situation in afghanistan. recital d is factually incorrect as deployment of new nato troops to afghanistan is continuing with both the uk and germany recently announcing increased levels. also we do not agree with the situation on opium production levels described in paragraph 32. the report seems to ignore the hard work being done by the afghanistan government through their long term national drug control strategy, and which has led to progress in cutting the number of provinces that harvest opium poppies. finally, we want to support continued cooperation with afghan law enforcement bodies as part of the european union’s continued support for transitional justice and security sector reform in the country.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote. mr brie’s report on the stabilisation of afghanistan over-simplifies what is a very complex situation on the ground. while the european parliament should be scrutinising developments in afghanistan, i believe its contributions should be constructive and look towards achieving a stable afghan state. i am not convinced of the report’s ability to propose workable solutions for what is a complicated conflict in which our troops are making steady and real progress.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by atanas paparizov, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1775/2005 on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (com(2007)0532 – c6-0319/2007 – 2007/0199(cod)) (a6-0253/2008),– the report by romano maria la russa, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/55/ec concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas (com(2007)0529 – c6-0317/2007 – 2007/0196(cod)) (a6-0257/2008), and – the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european strategic energy technology plan (2008/2005(ini)) (a6-0255/2008).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this debate assumes that the eu is to be heavily reliant on natural gas for energy. i challenge that, not least because almost all natural gas has to be imported. it places us in the hand of others, not all of whom are exactly friendly. do i have to recall how russia cut off the gas supply to ukraine at christmas time two years ago? what about alternative indigenous resources? western europe is rich in coal, which needs only travel a short distance to a power station. coal has a bad name, partly for pollution and partly for the extra carbon dioxide it produces per kilowatt as compared to gas. but you are behind the times. coal can be much more efficiently burned these days, releasing much less co2 than previous methods. personally, i prefer not to see it burnt, but coked. turning coal into coke produces two smoke-free sources: gas and coke, which when properly burnt together produce more energy than the coal they came from, in the ratio of 5:4. moreover, by thoroughly scrubbing the gas, what are otherwise pollutants are removed. they are in fact the very same by-products we get from oil. and all that is under our feet. further, there is nuclear power for electricity. that too has a bad name on account of one admittedly serious incident at chernobyl, but that was an old soviet installation of poor design in the hands of operators who tried an unsupervised shut-down which went wrong. why are there are doubts about nuclear energy, especially here in france, where nuclear power stations produce 70% of our electricity? let it be noted that finland, very environmentally conscious, has just approved a third nuclear plant. more recently, we have the spectacle of the eu promotion of biofuels which are now being severely questioned. biofuels are either produced on new land produced by destroying the rainforests, or on converted existing farm land. the former produces more co2 than the biofuels save, while the latter is causing food shortages, especially in the less-developed countries. of course we need natural gas, not least for domestic use, but the thrust of these reports is for the supply of gas to the eu to be controlled by the eu itself, by way of regulation. well, if it is anything like the cfp, where the regulations intended to conserve the fisheries have resulted in their near destruction, then heaven help us all. without doubt, gas supply regulations will be a red-tape nightmare, just when the commission has said it wants to cut all that down. how else will you produce a situation where the gas supply is split into two: transport and storage? surely the most efficient system is for the storer then to supply – but no, you want to divide and increase the bureaucracy. the report suggests licences for the pipeline operators while at the other end smart meters will be installed so that the consumer can be closely monitored. by whom, exactly? thus is state surveillance ratcheted upwards, while energy failure is to be a public order issue, giving the police powers of intervention. apart from placing the consumer in the uncertain hands of unreliable regimes, these reports extend the power of the state over the individual. in short, it is all about control. meanwhile it must be noted that earlier this very day, parliament voted to approve investigation into the environmental impact of the proposed gas pipeline under the baltic sea. this is tantamount to approving a project to bring russian natural gas direct to germany, bypassing poland, thus preserving their supplies and never mind the rest of us. is that what they call solidarity?
madam president, i would caution my colleagues against demonising sovereign wealth funds, let alone, mrs van den burg, private equity investors. recycling surpluses is highly desirable, whether by spending or investment. the 1930s depression was the result of hoarding by surplus countries. much better that these surpluses are recycled as investments to where they are needed – to our banks with their capital shortfalls, to our infrastructure needing modernisation, our real estate in its current difficulties and our business and industries in general to create and preserve jobs. yes, we need reciprocity, but the eu is the biggest investor internationally anyway. this must not be an excuse for protectionism to keep out other investors. surely we have our competition policy to deal with cartels and monopolies. we have our labour and health and safety rules to protect our workers, and, as a last resort, we have our sovereign right to legislate against unacceptable political interference. do not look gift horses in the mouth!
i should like to thank the president-in-office. i welcome the fact that the council will give a positive view of anti-discrimination legislation. however, he is no doubt aware – or if he is not, he soon will be – that he has inherited a legacy of non-implementation of anti-discrimination directives, both on the racial equality directive and on the employment directive. we now have a much-welcomed new package, a new horizontal directive on goods and services. i would ask the council, first of all, to ensure that this legacy of non-implementation by the council is not perpetuated. for example, there is a legacy of non-implementation relating to the council framework decision on racist crimes. the council must get behind this package because it is important for the citizens of europe, and we ask for a positive view on it.
i am delighted that a horizontal directive has been brought forward in the areas that you mentioned. can you tell me how much support you think you will get from other council members for this directive, and indeed is the french presidency going to commit itself today to really lobbying to make sure that this becomes a reality? it is very important that we get this anti-discrimination legislation through to complete the article 13 package and, as claude moraes says, implementation afterwards is a key point.
i represent the mccann family and the area that they come from, so i have, therefore, followed this very closely. further to mr ryan’s point, there is a number that i believe has already been reserved in most european countries – 116 000. in fact, it was installed in the telecoms package in an amendment last night by the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, so you might like to look at the process of that piece of legislation. however, my question is: does this need any new legislation? can it not just be based on pure cooperation?
i should like to thank the president-in-office for that response, but i have two brief points i would like to put. to be at the forefront of the peace process the eu would have to change its policy on the travel ban, because negotiations have taken place in geneva, which is not in the eu, and because the norwegians, who are also not members of the eu, have also been prominent in the peace process. is the president-in-office happy about that? the president-in-office gave a very comprehensive point of view about the gsp negotiations, but in light of his reservations, or of reservations about sri lanka at the moment, how confident is he at this stage that sri lanka will satisfy those 27 conditions to which he referred, which must be met before they can actually get this preferential system of trading?
as the minister is on home territory and the role of the presidency is to lead the 27 countries for this six-month period, could he indicate any areas where he feels that france sets a particularly good example and leads the way for the rest of the european union in this field?
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, on behalf of the socialist group i would like to thank mr costa for both his reports, although this evening i will speak only on the one dealing with railway safety. safety must always be our top priority, and those who are given the responsibility of running our railway infrastructure and its rolling stock must be properly trained and their qualifications recognised if we are to improve both the efficiency and safety of our railways. it is right that safety certification of freight wagons should enter a new phase with the introduction of a new system in 2010. it is also right that passenger vehicles should be covered, and, whilst that must be done in 10 years, those who oppose this must surely recognise the need for such a system i also support the rapporteur in his assertion that none of this should hold back railway expansion. the whole industry in europe, particularly in the area of rail freight, is haunted by the lack of vision that sometimes emanates from our infrastructure providers who latch on to any excuse to do nothing. we must expand our railways, both in infrastructure and rolling-stock terms, so that we can deliver an efficient, effective and sustainable railway network devoid of obstacles. finally, i must thank our rapporteur and all the members for their support of my amendments exempting heritage and tourist railways from this directive. had they been forced to comply, the cost burden would have been crippling, putting at risk the preservation of that rich industrial heritage that these railways undoubtedly provide. we in europe lead the way in railway heritage and preservation, a fact often overlooked by the commission – but, frankly, never overlooked by this parliament.
madam president, i would like to thank mr degutis for his excellent report and the work he has done over recent weeks. apart from flight delays, the most complaints that i receive against airlines concern the way that they lure people with what appear to be low fares and conveniently tell them the true cost only at the very end of the process. low-fare airlines have perfected this art over recent years. now, not only will the customers see the true price, but also the security taxes levied by national governments will have to be highlighted separately. this transparency has to be a good thing, and i hope it will end what has been over recent years an exercise in deceit by some airlines which try to con the travelling public into believing they are buying a very cheap ticket when the opposite is true. i must also make mention of the report’s tightening of the ‘wet lease’ rules for aircraft outside the eu and its commitment to ensuring that social dumping is not acceptable when airlines lease in aircraft – again, something that has happened in the past. there are concerns that the number of ‘wet leased’ aircraft from outside the eu is at an unacceptable level, compromising not only our social laws but also our safety laws and undermining our own eu civil aviation industry, and our rapporteur has addressed this. this is an excellent report for consumers, airline staff and european aviation. it is so good, in fact, that i am pretty sure airlines will already have started to look for any loopholes – again, another thing that has happened in the past and, again, another art that our airlines have perfected.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam members, all four legislative proposals under consideration fall within an area that has a direct impact on the daily lives of european citizens. the right to the protection of social security systems for persons moving within europe is inseparable from the freedom of movement within the union. the commission's proposals have one common objective: to modernise and simplify the coordination of national social security systems. this involves defining mechanisms of cooperation between the institutions and procedures to facilitate and accelerate the calculation and payment of social security benefits to their beneficiaries. we are talking about family benefits, pensions, unemployment benefits, etc., a whole range of social benefits which are very important for the life of people in the union. i would like to thank the members and rapporteurs for the considerable work they have done on these important texts in recent months. the draft implementing regulation defines the procedures necessary for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 883/2004, which we call the basic regulation. this regulation applies to all those who benefit from the coordination of national social security systems: citizens, social security institutions of the member states, healthcare providers and employers. it aims to define as clearly as possible the procedures under which insured persons in a crossborder situation receive social security benefits. who should i contact for family benefits? what steps must my employer take if he wants to send me temporarily to another member state? my working career is over, i have worked in several member states, how do i get my pension calculated and how do i secure its payment? it is precisely the procedures defined by that regulation that are intended to enable users to obtain the appropriate answers through cooperation between social security institutions. the effectiveness of this cooperation, as well as the need to respond to citizens' needs as quickly as possible, led us to believe that the use of electronic means of processing and exchanging information between institutions in different member states should be emphasised. the eessi (electronic exchange of social security information) network will enable the rapid and secure exchange of data, thus reducing the time needed by social security institutions to provide a response and process a cross-border situation. if the implementing regulation is adopted as soon as possible, citizens will be able to benefit from the progress made through coordination on simplification and modernisation, but also from new rights contained in the basic regulation that could not be exercised until now. the benefits of the new coordination for european citizens will only be apparent after the adoption of the regulations supplementing the annexes to regulation 883/04. the other two proposals concern regulation 883/04 and its annexes and aim to supplement the basic regulation in order to take account of changes in the legislation of the member states, in particular those which acceded to the union after 29 april 2004, when the basic regulation was adopted. these proposals also complete the annexes to regulation 883/04 which were left blank when the basic regulation was adopted. despite the technical nature of these texts, their objective remains the same: to ensure the transparency of the mechanisms and procedures to be applied to persons moving within the european union. for example, annex xi contains specific provisions to take account of the specificities of national legislation. annexes are therefore necessary to ensure transparency and legal certainty in national legislation, which is also very comprehensive. the coordination of national social security systems, to which you contribute as a co-legislator, ensures that the two fundamental principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination are applied in the most tangible way to european citizens who exercise their freedoms of movement. the proposal also envisages extending the provisions of regulation 883/2004 and its implementing regulation to third-country nationals who are not yet covered by those provisions on grounds of nationality. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that third-country nationals legally residing in the european union who are in a cross-border situation can benefit from a modernised and simplified social security coordination system. the application of a single and uniform coordination rule in terms of governance and simplification is indeed necessary. the agreement on these proposals will be a significant step forward for all those who benefit from the regulation and will ensure that it is better adapted to persons moving within the union. this demonstrates that the social security coordination regulations are ready to meet the new challenges of mobility in the 21st century. i would add that this work is the result of exemplary cooperation between member states, where the will to find solutions for citizens helps to overcome the differences between the different systems and the complexity of the field. ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the commission expressly supports proposals nos 2 and 161, which allow the use of an electronic data-processing system, which is of particular importance for the functioning of the electronic data-registry and the electronic processing of cross-border cases. the commission also supports in particular amendment no 90, which deals with the provision of sickness benefits and long-term care benefits. these two amendments greatly strengthen the position of citizens within the whole system.
rapporteur. − madam president, i want to bring together my two reports in the luxurious amount of time i have for my introduction in this house. firstly, i would like to start by thanking colleagues, the council and the commission for the good cooperation so far on what appears a very complex dossier – but it always is when you try to set down in writing what you do in practice, in a way that you think will at least be clear for practitioners and those needing to understand the system. as the commissioner has said, the basic regulation ((ec) no 883/2004) concerns the coordination, but not the harmonisation – and i want to make that clear – of social security systems between member states for people who are living or working in another member state or even simply travelling there. it cannot come into force until this implementing regulation has been agreed between parliament and the council in a codecision procedure requiring unanimity in the council – not the least of the complexities. the implementing regulation sets out the administrative architecture for how this should work. it sets out the rules on how each member state, each competent authority, will deal with the various dimensions of social security in respect to cross-border issues. central to the new basic regulation and the implementing regulation is this exchange of electronic data, with a view to providing greater speed and also greater accuracy of communication. hopefully, amongst other things, this will see an end to the situation – or at least a reduction in the time required – where thousands of pieces of paper land on an official’s desk: prescriptions filled out in the always of course totally legible handwriting of numerous doctors, and other claims relating to cross-border healthcare. by trying to simplify and clarify that, hopefully we can also reduce the amount of fraud currently in the system. for example, people exploit the current resulting inertia by manipulating the reimbursement system for cross-border care. equally, it could also ensure that more providers and individuals make claims as they feel there is a hope of being paid, rather than it being passed to their inheritors. articles 78 and 79 of the basic regulation set out the role for the commission in terms of supporting the development of the exchange of electronic data, including potential financing, so i am a bit surprised and disappointed at the move to delete amendments 2 and 161, which relate to implementing this essential development. when we were discussing the issue of data exchange, the committee felt that parliament should make very explicit the safeguards and the need for proportionate collection of data. thus we have reinforced the requirements concerning data protection in our proposals. the basic regulation also deals with aspects of access to benefits in kind for healthcare for people staying in another member state – for example on holiday – or for whom scheduled treatment becomes necessary on medical grounds, not simply from choice. the recent publication of the directive on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare has links to this basic regulation. parliament will have to ensure that there is no conflict between the two pieces of legislation. the committee has also anticipated the proposed extension of the equalities directives and has proposed two measures particularly relating to people with disabilities – one a cross-cutting measure to ensure that member states take the needs of people with particular disabilities into account when they are communicating with them and, secondly, in terms of providing for payment for the expenses of someone to accompany a disabled person who needs urgent medical treatment abroad. we are aware that this is an issue requiring further discussion with the council. the implementing regulation also concerns a number of deadlines. i know that there are varying opinions on that, which will be reflected in certain of the amendments that we discuss today. the committee also chose to support a revised schedule concerning the assessment and payment of long-term care cash benefits and the additional clarity relating to frontier workers who become unemployed. i would hope that the house will be able to support those amendments from the committee. in terms of the other report concerning the rights of third-country nationals when they travel within the european union, there is already a regulation in existence which links those who are legally resident and in a cross-border situation with the coordination of social security systems. this now needs to be updated: because we are updating the overarching regulation, we also need to update the linking one. the new proposal is substantially the same as the existing one. again it clarifies the scope and maintains the rights people already have. it introduces no new rights and it will become even more important as the european union develops its common immigration policy. the so-called blue card proposal will also benefit from this update of the regulation. again i hope that the house can support the committee amendments on this. we want a clear statement of principle and that is why i am recommending – as indeed the committee did – that we do not support the amendments concerning the addition of annexes. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, in a6-0251/2008, amendment 4 mentioned ‘mobility for the unemployed’. does that mean bussing unemployed around the eu looking for work – at taxpayers’ expense? a member state is liable for social security payments for someone who worked there but moved to another member state and then became unemployed. amendment 148 suggests that the taxpayer should pay for travel for a medical examination in another member state with a reimbursement system between member states, no doubt using a complex eu formula. member states may make decisions on invalidity which are binding on another member state, although complicated by the degree of invalidity, but they may have rules against overlapping of benefits. the rules will concern all eu citizens moving within the eu for any reason whatever. this includes legally resident third-country nationals who have worked in more than one member state as well as, soon, stateless persons and refugees. in several places these reports claim to simplify regulations and modernise existing legislation for social security authorities, employers and citizens, while being very inclusive. there will be, apparently, no implication for the community budget. it says that financial and administrative burdens will be reduced by the rules for coordination – which can only be done at community level – but that this is not harmonisation. how can one have reimbursement, eu-determined formulae, a rule covering all movement and rules for coordination, without it being harmonisation? all in all, these reports are a mass of conflicting statements. if they are adopted, they will need a great deal of administrative effort, costing money which the report says is not needed. finally, the family here has an identity crisis. birth and adoption allowances are, evidently, not family benefits. so when is a family not a family, and an adopted child is – well, what exactly? i too would like to avoid an identity crisis. a ‘frontier worker’ is a person working in one member state but residing in another providing they return home once a week. well, this is france and i am going home tomorrow. am i a frontier worker, even though i live right in the middle of england?
madam president, mobility of labour is supposed to be a key feature of the eu and of the lisbon strategy, yet as an mep – like other meps – i regularly get complaints about lack of health-care cover, inadequate social cover and – perhaps most frustrating of all – conflicting advice from different state agencies. it is not uncommon for an employee from one member state to be working in another at the behest of a company which exists in a third member state, and that is where the real issue for many seems to lie, causing issues about where and how they are covered. within our midst we have this very problem affecting parliamentary assistants and, despite the struggle of the parliamentary assistants’ association, this problem persists. i have to say it is scandalous that we cannot even get our own house in order in this regard, yet here we are legislating for others. my primary concern is for usefully employed individuals, not benefit tourists. i want to see any loopholes which help benefit tourists well and truly sealed in this legislation.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a detailed debate which, i think, has once again demonstrated the excellent quality of the report which is being presented. we are now at a certain stage in the preparation of the new regulation. this stage certainly did not solve all the problems, but certainly, as the debate showed, it is progress, in all respects. the european system coordinates social security systems, which means that it does not establish new rights, we do not establish new rights at this level, but what we are improving is the practical access to rights, the practical access to rights for citizens who move at the level of the european union, and that is tens of millions of people, tens of millions of cases. so let me stress once again the importance of this debate, which is extremely practical and concerns practically every citizen in the european union, and let me also stress that the technical proposals which are being put forward have, of course, their fundamental political content, because freedom of movement and access to rights are, in my view, very essential elements of the construction of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the margin on a comment concerning the new directives that will be presented on patient mobility. i want to stress that this is not free movement of services, that any parallels to any previous directive are not appropriate, and i also think that after a thorough debate in parliament it will be shown that these proposals represent progress for the citizens of the european union.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank all those members who have contributed to the debate. it is clear that some people lead what appear to be complicated lives. in fact the situation may be very straightforward if the border is within maybe 10 km of their homes and they are looking for work or indeed other things. it is certainly clear from some speeches we have heard in this house that the current system is not well understood either in some member states’ administrations or in this house itself. coordination of social security systems already exists – this is not new. what this is doing is updating, implementing and simplifying. all of you who have a european health insurance card with you – which, of course, you all will have – will know that even under the existing system we can simplify. i recommend amendment 30 to article 11(1) to the individual who was not sure whether or not he was frontier worker. this implementing regulation is also trying to set out clearly the rights that people have. that is the aim of amendment 34, and of amendment 125, which is a clarification and does not give new rights to somebody who is seeking work in two member states. i would once again urge people to support the committee text concerning the database. if this is not up and running effectively – and it is something that member states’ administrations want as well – then it becomes very difficult to meet whatever deadlines this house decides to put in place today. i recommend the committee position for both the reports to the house and look forward to the vote in a few minutes.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
the reason it has been placed in this order is the addition of the word ‘severe’ in amendment 163.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am happy to support the reversal that is proposed by the pse group.
mr gollnisch, i was in the chair when your group was dissolved.
mr president, the worst possible reason to change the rules is to aim it at one particular person or one particular group of people. that is the difference between the rule of law and arbitrary rule. in any case, i think this report, in the state that it now stands, is illegal because it was voted against in its original form in committee. the amended version now before the house bears such little resemblance to the original one, which was defeated in committee, so i think that, if we duly follow our own procedures, we have no option but to refer it either back to committee or to the legal services for arbitration.
mr president, the fact that we voted at all on this today seems to me a breach of this parliament’s rules of procedure. the committee voted down the report because i think the chairman of the committee had miscalculated who was in the room, at which point he simply tore up the rule book and proceeded on an amended version of it. why have we gone to such lengths? what is it that is so important that it requires us to tear up our rules like this? well, the answer of course as we know – and the rapporteur has been clear about it – is to prevent eurosceptics from forming a group. but why are you so frightened? what is it that makes you so nervous? we are only 50, maybe 60 people maximum, out of 785 meps. could it be that the people you are really worried about are your own voters and that you are sublimating and projecting on to us the contempt and fear you feel for the electorates of europe who vote ‘no’ whenever given an opportunity, that you take out on us, their visible spokesmen in this chamber, what you dare not express about the people who return you to this place. if i am wrong, prove me wrong: hold the referendums that you once promised. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i have rarely heard such nonsense as i have just heard from the vlaams blok, the front national and dan hannan. this report does not censor anybody, nor would this rule change lead to anyone losing their vote, their right to speak and their right to act as members of the european parliament. what this rule change is about is: at what threshold do you set the figure to enable members to create a group and thereby access extra taxpayers’ money and extra resources to pursue political activities? every national parliament that has a group system sets a threshold. we had a particularly low one – lower as a percentage than almost any national parliament. it is quite right that we stand back and examine it. i notice that in the end almost all groups supported the compromise – large groups and small groups. i notice that the speaker for the independence/democracy group itself – the eurosceptic ind/dem group – proposed an alternative figure of 3%: 22 meps. so they themselves recognise that our current figure needs to be raised, that it is currently too low. frankly, is the difference between their figure of 22 and the figure of 25 that has been adopted really an attack on democracy? oh, come off it!
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party welcomes this report and in particular welcomes the strong calls on eu member states to concentrate and strengthen their commitment towards the millennium development goals. we strongly agree that the focus must be on meeting the promises made and scaling up the existing procedures. labour euro mps, however, do not agree with the recommendation for a single eu seat on the un security council and cannot support this recommendation. we do not believe this would be a good thing for the scale of european representation. under article 19, european members of the unsc do not explicitly present eu positions in the council. furthermore, the un charter itself stipulates that this cannot be the case. however there is a healthy informal co-ordination process both in new york and more widely, and it is this which should be encouraged.
in writing. − i welcome mr lambsdorff's report setting out the eu priorities for the 63rd session of the un general assembly. i particularly support the need to continue to push for an ambitious commitment to the millennium development goals (mdg) at the summit. the eu mdg agenda should set a global example and we should be pushing for this example to be followed by the rest of the international community at the un general assembly in september. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in support of mr costa's report "safety on the community's railways". the rapporteur's recommendations will help streamline legislation and facilitate free movement of trains across the eu. these recommendations will cut red tape and should boost the development of rail transport in europe.
in writing. − i voted to exempt heritage railways from the scope of this directive. this continues to reflect my appreciation of the very special case which these companies represent. had those companies had to comply with the terms of this directive it would have meant a crippling series of costs on largely volunteer/subscription organisations. such railways as the romney, hythe and dymchurch railway and the kent and east sussex light railway (of which i am a life member) are part of the historic fabric of the tourist industry in the south east of england and across the eu. it is a shame that some in this house who purport to be ‘nationalistic’ in leaning could not support this exemption.
in writing. − i supported all the amendments to the committee on transport and tourism’s report on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 881/2004 establishing a european railway agency. in the united kingdom we have seen a growth of more than a fifth in the number of passengers on the train. in the short term this has led to enormous difficulties as over-crowded trains have led to enormous congestion and as passengers in certain regions – including my own, the south west of england – have resented and protested at the movement of rolling stock around the country. at the same time campaigns are moving to re-open long closed stations and lines to cope with demand and the need to reduce carbon emissions, such as the campaign in radstock, somerset. in the longer term, new orders for rolling stock will alleviate the crisis but, if europe’s railways are to continue to flourish, we need some strategic thinking that hopefully a strengthened european railway agency can provide.
in writing. − paulo costa's report on the establishment of a european railway agency notably supports the call for a european railway traffic management system, consisting of the most advanced rail safety technology. i support this initiative which, in tandem with the "safety on the community railways" report, will allow for a more cohesive european rail network. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − arūnas degutis’ report on the rules for the operation of air services in the community will ensure that the price you see for flights is the actual price you pay. final prices for flights must now include fares, taxes, airport charges and other charges. this is a positive move towards greater transparency in the aviation sector and consumer protection. workers in the air services sector will also experience greater social protection under the report’s proposals. i therefore voted in favour of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − i fully support this report, which will put an end to the unfair practice of airlines advertising fares that exclude taxes, charges and a wide range of other extra fees. the present situation allows airlines to get away with advertising misleading fares that, very simply, prove to be false. as a result, there is a serious lack of price transparency regarding airfares, which is distorting competition and affecting the consumer's ability to make informed choices. in many cases, people end up paying a lot more than they originally expected, as the advertised fare bears little resemblance to the final cost. the commission and parliament have worked together to ensure that this will change. this report will mean that airfares must be advertised simply and clearly, inclusive of all taxes and extra charges. the european union's ‘crackdown’ on this practice is great news for the consumer.
in writing. − i support mr konrad’s report on the programme for the modernisation of the european enterprise and trade statistics. the report seeks to provide investment to improve the efficiency of statistical production so that new demands can be met while business burdens are reduced. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − with mr ouzky’s report the use of two substances 2-(2-methoxyethoxy) ethanol (degme) and 2-(2-butoxyethoxy) ethanol (degbe) will be greatly restricted and in some cases banned in products marketed to the general public. the report’s recommendations bolster consumer protection and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − atanas paparizov’s report on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks will facilitate the integration of the eu internal gas market. the report tackles cross-border issues between member states and will increase regulatory oversight at european level. it is important for the eu to work towards an internal market in gas and i voted in support of the report.
in writing. − the alde group voted against a reform of rule 29 for the following reasons:– the existence of the current seven groups causes no real problems of efficiency; – minority opinions have just as much right to be organised professionally as majority opinions;– a decent european parliament must reflect the wider diversity of political opinion that we find in the union: we need not copy exactly national parliaments whose job is to supply a government;– closing down smaller groups would either force reluctant deputies to join larger groups, adding to their incoherence, or inflate the ranks of the non-attached, adding to inefficiency;– the size of the parliament is in any event set to fall from 785 to 751 (lisbon) or 736 (nice).
in writing. − conservative meps have voted against both of mr corbett’s proposed amendments to raise the threshold for the establishment of political groups in the european parliament. the balance between the efficient operation of the parliament and the need to recognise the plurality of voices and opinions within the parliament must be struck with care. this would be better achieved by retaining the thresholds for the constitution of a political group as they currently are. although we recognise there is a fair case for increasing the number of members required to form a group, any increase in the requirement of the number of member states would unfairly and unnecessarily disadvantage smaller groups and delegations. accordingly, after consideration of mr corbett’s report, the constitutional affairs committee did not recommend any changes to the thresholds set out in rule 29. conservative meps did however vote in favour of the one amendment, originally tabled by mr kirkhope, that had been approved by the constitutional affairs committee. this amendment provides for a more pragmatic and reasonable approach to the circumstances in which a political group may fall below the required thresholds.
in writing. − i support richard corbett’s report amending the rules of procedure regarding the formation of political groups. with 27 member states the eu’s rules on this issue need to be updated. the european parliament cannot justify using millions of euros of taxpayers’ money to fund groupings of parties, especially fascists, who come together for nothing other than financial gain. the european parliament has the lowest threshold of almost any parliament for constituting groups. there is no threat to any existing group – nor is the rule change an attempt to squash eurosceptics, who have more than the new minimum number. consequently, i voted in favour of mr corbett’s report.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this report, not because i enjoy wto disputes or have a paranoia about the united states, but because i am fed up with the protectionist actions of the united states over many years, particularly in the area of civil aviation. the americans have perfected the art of whinging and complaining about other countries and their lack of free trade, when they themselves have adopted measures which allow bankrupt airlines to carry on trading, and have allegedly sifted millions of dollars of aid into boeing. the international trade committee is right to support the eu in its case against the united states at the wto. what we all should be aiming for here is fair and open competition between aircraft manufacturers with a freedom of choice for airlines to choose the best aircraft to suit their needs at the best price. the official motto of the usa is ‘in god we trust.’ perhaps that should change to ‘don’t do as i do. do as i say.’
in writing. − this resolution covers an important subject. sovereign wealth funds are playing an increasingly important role in global trade and investment. some of this is positive but that is not always the case as the unaccountable administrations make decisions that maximise short-term profits at the expense of countries, communities and families. we must look at ways of increasing transparency and accountability to these resources that often outweigh those available to nation states.
in writing. − i welcome olle schmidt’s report on the ecb annual report. i join the rapporteur in calling for the ecb to continue to improve its relationship with other central banks and relevant institutions. indeed, i would also echo mr schmidt’s recommendation that caution should be taken regarding further interest rate rises so as not to endanger economic growth. i voted in support of the rapporteur’s evaluation.
mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives and those who have suffered from the earthquake. but i want in particular, if i may, to address my remarks to mr jouyet for his declaration today that president sarkozy, who comes here tomorrow, will attend the opening ceremony of the olympic games. i would like to recall the editorial in today’s local newspaper, les dernières nouvelles d’alsace: ‘l’europe a capitulé’ – europe has capitulated. not only is president sarkozy going to the olympic games, but also, on 16 june, broadcasts by a group that broadcast into china via eutelsat, with the permission of the french authorities, were suspended. this has been done before. on this occasion i beg the french government to allow ndtv to resume their broadcasts. i am submitting today, to the united nations rapporteurs on torture and religious freedom, a dossier relating to some of the people i had contact with when i was in beijing two years ago. mr cao dong continues to be tortured in a prison in north-east china. mr niu jinping was re-arrested on 20 april 2008 and is being tortured. his wife, ms zhang lianying, has been tortured many times and has been imprisoned four times. i am putting on my website a dossier of 50 sorts of torture that she is suffering. mr gao zhisheng, a christian human rights lawyer, i know was very badly treated earlier this year. he remains under house arrest. mr hu jia was arrested after giving evidence to the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights. this is an arbitrary, brutal and paranoid regime. we should keep politics out of sport; we should keep mr sarkozy away from beijing. (applause)
mr president, like many people here, seven years ago when the olympic games were awarded to china i had serious reservations. but they were awarded only after a string of assurances had been given by the authorities that minority rights would be respected, that there would be an end to the torture and abuses and that the well-documented human rights violations would be addressed. fast forward to today and we know that our worries are as great as ever, if not more so. others have spoken about the abuses. mr cappato was eloquent on tibet, and mr cohn-bendit and others also spoke. we know about the violations of natural justice. china executes more people every year than all the other countries in the world put together. i think it will be to europe’s shame next month if president sarkozy and a line of eu heads of governments and presidents and princes stand there and shake hands with the chinese leaders, thereby giving them credibility when they do not deserve it and giving them the green light to carry on in the same vein as they have been doing. the olympic games should be about the olympic ideal and what is going on in china at the moment contravenes that.
mr president, this house must promote statesmanship, which sadly today it is not doing. ten million homeless people is an enormous disaster – the worst in the world. we saw a people-concerned, people-centred chinese government and leadership in action in an area which has one of the biggest populations, including more than one million tibetans. unlike in burma where the rulers did not and do not care, the chinese government demonstrably cares for its own people. this was self-evident to anyone who saw the relief effort. human rights in china cannot be decided by other countries, powers, organisations or people in the rest of the world. it can only be decided by the 1.3 billion chinese population for themselves. we well know that this population can be articulate, can demonstrate and show their anger, and they do show it when something is wrong. the human rights situation in china is improving and can be improved further. parliament and my colleagues shouting about it is not going to make any difference. we are, as usual, deluding ourselves about how important we are. it will be the chinese people who, having been lifted out of poverty, will ask for themselves greater democratic expression. four hundred million people have been lifted out of poverty – a remarkable achievement. but the chinese people are afraid. by turning our backs on them as we did over the olympic torch, we only infuriate the people of china, not their government. this distinction is important and should be understood.
mr president, britain, my country, was one of three countries to join in the first wave of enlargement back in 1973. since then, my party, the british conservatives, has actively supported the enlargement process to the current 27 member states. enlargement expands the eu single market, creating more opportunities for economic growth and trade. it creates more jobs and social stability, as well as projecting a greater eu voice on the global stage. enlargement consolidates the eu’s values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in those new member states, as we have witnessed in the past with the former dictatorships of spain, greece and portugal who then joined, and the warsaw pact former communist countries, who have joined more recently. for those who question the eu’s movement towards ever-closer union, enlargement should theoretically produce a wider, looser and more flexible europe and more debate about the eu’s future direction. president sarkozy, as the president-in-office, has recently raised the issue of enlargement in the context of the paralysis of the lisbon treaty, following its rejection by the irish referendum. mr sarkozy has said that the next foreseen enlargement to croatia could not happen without the lisbon treaty. i believe this is a mistake and it is an attempt to keep the treaty alive. i am convinced that a way can be found for croatia to join the eu without the lisbon treaty. indeed, there are undoubtedly other aspects of the treaty where attempts will be made to implement them without the documents for ratification. it is now clear that europeans want less focus on institutional tinkering and more on making the case for the eu by reconnecting with the people. i personally support future enlargement to the western balkans and eventually to ukraine, moldova and hopefully a democratic belarus. it is a tangible example of the good thing that the eu could bring to its peoples.
mr president, there is an acknowledgement in this report that enlargement has not been an unqualified success. mr brok concedes that, without a serious alteration in the current eu policies, the eu’s internal cohesion may be undermined by enlargement. the eu has let in countries that it knew full well did not meet its own entry criteria, as was the case with romania and bulgaria. this may well be repeated with yet more eastern european states and turkey. tremendous strains are being put on member states such as the united kingdom as a result of uncontrolled, unlimited and indiscriminate immigration resulting from continued eu enlargement. this is just one of the reasons for the growing hostility to the european union among its citizens. mr brok’s solution is to propose a massive propaganda budget to convince people of the benefit of enlargement. the solution for britain is to leave the european union and regain control of its borders.
mr president, could mr jouyet explain and justify the extraordinary situation inside the french parliament about the use of referendums to sanction turkish accession? does he not agree that the choice of such a populist device is entirely wrong for the ratification of an international treaty?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, yet again the anti-israel forces in this parliament are seeking any opportunity to attack the jewish state and yet again those of us who seek a balanced debate and a genuine peace in the middle east are compelled to come to israel’s defence. after all, israel is a democratic country, which faces an existential threat from jihadi terrorists and their cheerleaders, who are the very individuals currently held under administrative detention by israel. concerning the issue of children, sadly children have been dragged into and recruited into the intifada and even as potential suicide bombers by the terrorists. i particularly question the need for this motion for a resolution at a time of a truce with hamas, which has just stopped firing its rockets from gaza at civilians, and also a prisoner exchange taking place between israel and hizbollah, whereby five terrorist prisoners were returned to their homes and families, whereas two israeli soldiers will be returned in body bags. one of these terrorists – samir kuntar – murdered a young israeli man by drowning him and then took the man’s daughter, smashing her on rocks and beating her skull with a rifle butt. he also killed a policeman. the palestinian terrorists who hijacked the achille lauro – during which time they murdered an elderly jewish man, throwing his body overboard – demanded kuntar’s release. doing deals with terrorists brings with it a heavy price to pay for any democracy, but this is doubly so in israel’s case. samir kuntar has vowed to resume jihad against israel now that he is set free. i therefore applaud israel’s courageous decision. i hope that it will ultimately bring positive results, but i fear not, because it is quite apparent that those who wish to destroy israel as a state are gaining strength from politicians like mrs morgantini who table resolutions like this one at this moment in time. while she is on the topic, she might also wish to examine an allegation in the british press of the torture routinely carried out in palestinian jails against their own people both by hamas in gaza and, perhaps more surprisingly, by the palestinian authority itself.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying to the president-in-office that amnesty international has stated that 8 500 palestinians from the occupied palestinian territories being detained in israeli prisons are being held contrary to article 76 of the geneva convention, and for many of these prisoners family visits are impossible due to the restricted travel permits. for those visits that are allowed, even though under international human rights standards israel is responsible for ensuring that the palestinian detainees receive these visits, it is the international community, via the international committee of the red cross, which has being shouldering the cost. that is why it is right for us in the european parliament to ask the european council to act. like commissioner ferrero-waldner, i have met mrs barghouti and i thank the commissioner too for her specific reference to our parliamentary colleagues from the palestinian legislative council who are amongst the imprisoned. although i agree with mr mladenov and mr tannock that the abduction and failure to allow family visits of israeli nationals is an equal breach of international law, i regret that mr tannock sought to portray my co-author, mrs morgantini, as someone who is committed to the destruction of israel, when she and i support human rights and upholding international humanitarian law.
mr president, i am losing count of the number of times we stand up in this chamber to condemn the israeli authorities for their systematic abuse of the human rights of the palestinian people. the occupation, the separation wall, the siege of gaza – the list goes on. today we focus on the terrible situation of palestinian prisoners, including 44 members of the legislative council. these are our counterparts, our partners, who still languish in prison without charge and without trial. my question is this: when is the european council going to act? how many more violations of international law does it take? how many more palestinians have to be arrested, imprisoned and tortured before the eu stops just talking about human rights and starts taking action to defend them? to consider upgrading eu-israel relations at a time like this demonstrates the most breathtaking disregard for our responsibility to the palestinian people. to fail to invoke article 2 of the association agreement demonstrates the most deplorable political cowardice. our argument is not with the israeli people, many of whom join us in our condemnation of the israeli authorities. my argument is right now not even with israel. it is with the european council and its grotesque failure of political leadership.
mr president, i agree completely with caroline lucas. it is ironic that our next debate is on zimbabwe. mugabe did not like the result of an election and has since fixed it; he now arrests parliamentarians to try and achieve a new balance, and does worse. we are going to condemn him utterly. the comparisons are of course far apart, but two and a half years ago we paid for elections in palestine. israel did not like the result, so we refused to recognise the new government. since then, israel has arrested more than 40 parliamentarians, people who belong to the wrong party, people who had not used a bullet but who had resorted to the ballot box. we are not going to apply sanctions. instead we are seeking closer partnership with israel. so, commissioner and minister, the contradictions are surely evident. you say you have a balanced approach – but where is the evidence that our approach is achieving anything?
mr president, i do not let israel off the hook but it is extremely unhelpful for the european parliament to single out one party – israel – in a complex conflict where human rights abuses demand a balanced approach. a debate only on israeli actions is also very bad timing. are we forgetting that our overriding aim is to encourage the parties to achieve a peaceful two-state solution? only if our criticism is accurate and constructive and non-partisan will we be heard by both parties and have a brighter prospect of influence. i think human rights watch and the un’s martin scheinin achieved such a standard. the latter points out the significance of decisions of the israeli supreme court – entirely absent from the oral questions. even john dugard’s report said he was deeply concerned and condemned violations of human rights by palestinians upon palestinians and by palestinians upon israelis. no mention of that. i regret that israel still relies on emergency regulations of 1945 inherited from the british colonial power but it is worth noting that they have been applied to jewish terrorists in hebron as well as to palestinian people.
mr president, this is not a question of terrorists arrested, tried, convicted and imprisoned; it is simply a question of individuals seized and held. and it is a question, in particular, of children, not child soldiers – some children have thrown stones and so on, it is true, but children. imagine this chamber full of children. take half of them, put sacks over their heads, tie their hands behind their backs, take them away without telling their parents where you are taking them, put them into jails, put them into 1.5 m2 rooms with no windows, put on the light, keep them away from medical attention, keep them away from any outside visits and so forth, do not allow them to have changes of clothes. that is what we are talking about. that is what the united nations convention on the rights of the child should be about. my plea to israel is: for goodness’ sake, you are not winning friends by doing this. please, israel, my cry to you is: set the children free!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the people of zimbabwe have suffered horrendously. after years of intimidation, brutality and economic meltdown, the election came as the final twist of the screw. since the election, the violence has continued unabated. at least 90 people have been killed since the first round of polling on 29 march and just this monday residents were attacked and abducted from an idp camp east of harare. we may feel tempted to just wring our hands in despair but i believe there are things that the eu can do towards a solution to the crisis. firstly, the eu can offer diplomatic support to those seeking to find a way forward via an interim transitional government involving all parties in civil society and respecting the results of the first round. a transitional coalition is an african approach that has over the years worked in a number of other countries such as togo and the democratic republic of congo. however, the motion for a resolution notes the failure to date of president mbeki’s quiet diplomacy and it may be the case that a different african neighbour respected by all sides would be better placed to broker such negotiations. and, if there is an international accompaniment, that would also be helpful in the negotiations. secondly, we must step up the pressure against mugabe in the international community. russia’s adherence to the g8 summit call for sanctions was very encouraging and i welcome the council’s comments on the strengthening of sanctions by a number of countries. thirdly we must start planning ahead now for the day when zimbabwe has a legitimate government and will need a broad package of international support. finally, we must not forget that ordinary zimbabweans are in desperate straits and need basic aid now just to keep going.
mr president, the crisis in zimbabwe did not burst suddenly on an unsuspecting world: this is the 16th time in eight years that we have debated a motion for a resolution on mugabe as he has systematically and deliberately plundered his country, ruined the economy and oppressed the zimbabwean people. the response of the international community until very recently has been pathetic. at least the european union imposed targeted sanctions – but it could not even properly uphold these. the africans – with a very small number of honourable exceptions – have merely applauded mugabe. they should be ashamed. what is to be done? firstly, it should be made clearer in the council that no eu state will recognise the illegitimate regime of mugabe. i am heartened that the eu is extending its sanctions. secondly, the european union and its member states should be persuading african countries, especially the sadc, to join these sanctions against the mugabe regime if negotiations fail. thirdly, the members of the joint operations committee – the military gang that is behind mugabe – should be put on notice that they will be held responsible for the systematic atrocities against the people of zimbabwe. it is not too late for some senior members of the armed forces and police – and senior zanu-pf functionaries for that matter – to abandon mugabe and to come over to the democratic forces. fourthly, france should call for an emergency session of the human rights council in geneva to address the situation in zimbabwe and, fifthly, more robust action is required by the united nations. above all, we must actively encourage the african union to become even more positively and actively engaged in pushing for this government of national unity. this, of course, should be based on the outcome of the elections of 29 march rather than the farce of 27 june, as both the president-in-office and the commission have indicated. we have heard from the mdc spokesman, nelson chamisa, that there are currently no negotiations between zanu-pf and the mdc. instead there is continuing violence. the african union must insist on an end to violence and the appointment of a mediator, backed by observers, who will have the confidence of the mdc. mugabe yet again is playing for time. there must be a deadline for negotiations to be successfully completed and someone meanwhile should offer mugabe a retirement home.
mr president, i, like others, will have to comment on the fact that the parliament which was duly elected on 29 march in zimbabwe has never met and its elected members continue to be harassed and intimidated and suffer from violence. our resolution calls for a strengthening of sanctions, and of course we will also have to join the calls made at the un for an international arms embargo and for worldwide travel bans and the freezing of assets. we know who the additional ringleaders that need to be targeted are, we know who the henchmen are, who the bag carriers are. you have chihuri, the police chief; shiri, the air force head; gono, the governor of the central bank; chinamasa, the justice minister; bonyongwe, the chief of central intelligence: these are the people that can and must be targeted. our resolution clearly reflects the pre-conditions laid down by the mdc. all talks must be based on the outcome of the 29 march election which the mdc won and not on the sham run-off in june. it must be a transitional arrangement designed to lead to a new constitution – nobody has mentioned that, and that is what morgan tsvangirai is calling for – followed by fresh elections. he says very clearly, and i quote him, ‘i want no power deals and no power sharing’. as geoffrey van orden has said, there are no negotiations going on so we should not take heart from the current situation. there has to be an additional mediator. clearly mr mbeki is unable to do it alone and we call for an african union nominee to be put in place. that nominee must be of equal standing with mr mbeki and people like mr chissano and mr kufuor come to mind at this stage. finally the unchecked state-sponsored brutality and violence and savagery have to stop, and that is why the international community must act, and act urgently, in the interests of the suffering people of zimbabwe.
in writing. – the recent elections in zimbabwe were wholly illegitimate and undemocratic, sparking widespread criticism and condemnation from the international community. although the situation in zimbabwe has prompted concern for a while now, the fallout of these elections and evidence of brutal state-sponsored violence against supporters of tsvangirai's opposition mdc party have brought the crisis to another level. zimbabwe now finds itself in an extremely grave situation. in addition to this political crisis, years of mismanagement by mugabe's regime has left the country's economy in tatters and its currency virtually worthless. life expectancy for both men and women is under forty and recent events have prompted many to leave the country and seek refuge in neighbouring african states, which is proving to put pressure on the stability of the entire region. i welcome this resolution which stresses the eu's unequivocal rejection of the recent election results in zimbabwe due to their undemocratic and illegitimate nature. the resolution also wholeheartedly denounces the use of political violence by the mugabe regime and calls for sanctions to be used against those who support it, both inside and outside of zimbabwe.
member of the commission. − the european union has agreed on a 10% target for renewable fuels within the transport sector, and this 10% is by 2020. i think it is important that we say ‘renewables’ because it is not only biofuels – it is not only ethanol or biodiesel. it could be electric cars as well, so we have to make this distinction. i think we have to say that such a long lead time makes it unlikely that this can have had an impact on the price level that we see today. according to our calculations, by 2020 this could mean an increase in cereal prices of between 3 and 6%, rapeseed by about 8-10% and sunseed 15% as compared to the 2006 prices, assuming a share of 30% coming from the second generation of biofuels. i think i can see that there is some hesitation among some members of parliament. one of the honourable members does not seem to agree, but i think you have to take into account that quite a lot of the present increases in food prices stem from the high oil prices. we have seen lots of calculations and impact assessments from the oecd, and the latest one clearly says that estimating an oil price of eur 130 per barrel means an increase in crop prices of between 9 and 13%. so this is related to the oil price increase and not to the discussion on renewable energies. i think it is also clear that the impact will be limited through the growing use we are hopefully going to see of the second generation of biofuels, which is encouraged by our policies. second-generation biofuels are produced from feedstock other than food crops and can come not only from dedicated energy crops but also from sources such as recycled vegetable oil, animal fat, by-products from the forestry industry, forestry residues and solid waste such as grasses. in the commission proposal put on the table on 23 january this year for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the commission proposed that it will monitor, amongst other things, the commodity price changes associated with the use of biomass for energy and any associated positive and negative impacts on food security. in addition, the commission proposes to report every two years on, among other things, the impact of our european biofuel policy on availability of foodstuffs in exporting countries, the ability of people in developing countries to afford these foodstuffs, and wider development issues. the commission has presented its view on the cause of the recent rise in food prices in the recent communication ‘tackling the challenge of rising food prices: directions for eu action’. so, given the volatility and the complexity of the current price trends, the commission will closely monitor price developments within the european union and internationally and will report by the end of the year on the evolution of the situation. as stated in the communication, although demand for agricultural commodities is also influenced by the biofuel market, commission analyses indicate that current european biofuel production has little impact on current global food prices.
member of the commission. − first of all, i think we can see that renewable energies and biofuels have recently been the scapegoat for increased prices within the agricultural commodities sector. clearly there are different reasons for these increases. the adverse weather conditions that we have seen in parts of the world have had a high influence – almost four times as high as the influence of biofuels. secondly, we have seen a huge demand from asia. in china and india they are now starting to eat meat, which means that they need to import much more cereal than they used to do. thirdly, speculation: investors are moving their money out of stocks and shares and bricks into agricultural commodities, into gold and silver. this is obvious. some countries have closed their borders for exports of agricultural commodities and this has also contributed. looking at the united states, the fact that the americans have now introduced a very comprehensive use of corn for bioethanol has had an effect on the corn sector. of course this has an influence on the world market price for corn. but in europe we use less than 1% of our production area for renewable energies and that cannot have an influence on the price level that we see. what is important is that we produce these renewable energies in a sustainable way and that we apply certain criteria to the different types of renewable energies. we have said clearly that a 35% reduction of co2 emission is the minimum and we would be prepared to go further. for example, 50% has been mentioned as a figure to be introduced by 2015. regarding the honourable member’s question on the world bank study, i must say first of all that it has not yet been published. a pirate copy has been leaked. it is therefore difficult for the world bank to comment on something that has not yet been published. but i have to say that personally i would like to see a commitment and a confirmation from the world bank that they are going to sign up to the 75%. i do not believe that 75% is a figure that can be defended. it is not even on cereal prices but on food prices. when you know that sometimes on food – bread, for example – only up to a maximum 10% of the value of the bread can be related to the wheat, i simply cannot imagine how this figure of 75% can be right. i would be very happy to come back to the european parliament to discuss it when this report has been made public and we have a solid basis for discussion and not just rumours that appeared in one single newspaper when it was leaked.
commissioner, i admire your tenacity in sticking to the line about the low impact of biofuels on food prices, but i do wonder how long you can sustain that. as has been pointed out to you, you are very much out of line with other experts across the world. you have heard about the fao and, it seems, the world bank. you make the point repeatedly that we only put 1% of our production into biofuels. that may be, but we in europe depend so much on imports for our feedstuffs from the americas – and that is where the impact on food prices is coming from. it is the requirement to face up to that and to move as speedily as we can to second-generation and even third-generation which the commission should be focusing upon.
it seems to me that if the argument is regarding lead times, then oil prices are exempt from being a cause of rising commodity prices rather than biofuels; but will the commissioner urge the world bank to publish the result? will she write to them and indicate that we would like to see this report published, so that we can all debate its argumentation? on that basis, does the commission not feel we should urge, in the interim, a moratorium on all new biofuel products that are not based entirely on non-edible by-products of food and food processing?
commissioner, this is an example of a question tabled some weeks ago which, very happily, received its positive answer on 1 july with your announcement. i think you should take personal credit for championing this within the commission and for listening to the vote of the european parliament. let me just ask you and the commission to maintain your vigilance so that derogations and exemptions to the principle of equal treatment are not sought on just any grounds: they must be sought on necessary grounds and on genuine principles of subsidiarity, because we have seen transpositions of the employment directive and race equality directive which were not complete and we must ensure that this good package becomes law in the member states.
could i ask the commissioner to comment on british newspaper reports? apparently, as reported in the press, anti-discrimination legislation does not currently apply to workers over the age of retirement, and people of retirement age or older are being legally sacked. does the commissioner have plans to tackle the british government’s discrimination against older workers?
deputising for the author. − mr president, unfortunately, mr evans has had to return to the united kingdom. on his behalf, i thank the commissioner for his answer to the question. with the sharply rising number of cross-border marriages – almost one in five couples now come from two member states – and with the rising percentage of couples and individuals over retirement age travelling around the european union, does the commission not feel that, unless it takes urgent action on these matters, unequal treatment will lead to health refugees rather than the more widely speculated health tourists in the eu?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report opens by saying ‘the various political and security challenges which the european union is increasingly facing make an autonomous european space policy a strategic necessity’. if you accept this opening proposition at face value then of course the report’s recommendations follow as a logical consequence: a common european space policy, the implementation of the european security and defence policy, the use of the galileo satellite system for military purposes, and, of course, a budget to pay for it all. but if we do not accept the proposition, the logic falls apart. there are indeed political and security challenges facing the continent of europe, but why should the european union have an autonomous space and security and defence policy? as far as the overwhelming majority of its citizens are concerned, the european union is not, and should not be, a political state. and only states legitimately have security policies and military capabilities. as the report says, the lisbon treaty includes a legal basis for the european space policy and the possibility for permanent structured cooperation on security and defence. but of course, legally, the lisbon treaty is dead. it was killed by the irish ‘no’ vote in the recent referendum, so the implementation of a space and security and defence policy should also be dead. space and security and defence policy would of course require a common communication system, and the report underlines the necessity for galileo to be used for an autonomous european security and defence policy. but until recently we were told that galileo was for civilian purposes only. finally it has to be admitted that its real use is for eu military purposes. the report also wants it both ways. it wants an eu space programme linked to the security and defence policy but at the same time says that the space policy should not contribute to the militarisation and weaponisation of space. of course space will be militarised and weaponised. that is inevitable. it will be done by the usa, probably by russia and in due course certainly by china. the security interests of the west should be represented in space not by an illegitimate european union but with our ally the usa, in partnership with the only legitimate security organisation that has the democratic backing of the people of europe, nato.
rapporteur. − mr president, this is the third element of the visa information system (vis) package. in modifying the existing common consular instructions, it provides, firstly, for the obligation to give the biometrics to be stored in the vis and the standards for doing so and, secondly, for the organisation of the reception of visa applications. it would, indeed, allow the vis to start operations. although a complete revision of the visa rules is foreseen with the visa code on which my colleague, henrik lax, is rapporteur, the rationale for making a specific proposal separately is that the adoption of the visa code is likely to take even longer. but it is important to ensure coherence between the two proposals. i have been discussing and negotiating with the council for a considerable period. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs adopted my report last november and i am sorry i am not able to present a first-reading agreement today, but i believe that is partly because the council has been rather slow, but also because it does not appear willing to respond with a real movement towards the points that we are making. so i am asking my colleagues to endorse the report, as adopted in committee, and hopefully the new presidency will be able to persuade member states to take our opinion more carefully into account. i would cover the same ground as the commissioner but would put the issues into four groups rather than three. the first concerns what i see as the council’s willingness to go forward with fingerprinting young children, while ignoring both the issues of principle and the significant costs and inconvenience for the parents with the problems of frequent changes of child fingerprints and also the problem of false matches or rejections. i do not believe i have had full information from the commission. secondly, what i feel is a lack of willingness to work together on the part of the member states in trying to deal with the new challenge of organising the collection of biometrics together. thirdly, insufficient regard for data protection and data security: despite a series of data loss scandals, member states are not sufficiently sensitised to safeguarding personal data from loss, interception by a third state or technical faults. lastly, the question of the visa fee. i do not think it is right that member states should make visa applicants pay for their own administrative choices by allowing commercial companies with which they make contracts for collecting biometrics to charge an extra fee on top of the visa fee. i believe that, despite repeated requests, the commission and council have failed to provide credible substantive evidence supporting the proposals to start fingerprinting children from the age of six. i think there could be considerable extra costs if you have to take them every two years. so what we are proposing is to exempt children under 12, initially, from the obligation to provide fingerprints, but have a review after three years, following a detailed study on the technical feasibility, reliability and proportionality of the taking of fingerprints from young children. i believe that would be a sensible way forward. on outsourcing, i have no problems with the general concept, in so far as it improves services for visa applicants and as long as it takes place under conditions ensuring the integrity of the visa-issuing process, that it is a last resort and that the service provider operates in the building under diplomatic protection, ensuring consular officials are present to supervise the staff of the service provider. this would guarantee that data protection is ensured and the material protected from seizure, but i am not getting any concession from the council on this point. also i am finding that member states are not even willing to explore co-location with another member state or a common application centre. i will just finish by saying that i went for an opinion to the article 29 working party of national data protection supervisors. they pointed out a paradox whereby, while there is reinforcement of the reliability and security of visas by introducing biometrics on the other hand, if you have means of collection which are not of the same level of security as can be ensured in a consulate or consular section of an embassy, this weakens the reliability of the whole process. i will deal with any other points, particularly on the visa fee, in my concluding remarks.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues and especially the shadows i have worked with. we have had very constructive work together and i have welcomed their positive contributions. they have all been very engaged and i have been very grateful. i want the vis to work and to get going as soon as possible. in a sense it is my baby, as i was the rapporteur on the system itself. but, as colleagues have stressed, we are talking about very sensitive personal data and maybe 70 million entries at any one time. the vis cannot afford to be treated as one vast experiment. we must proceed on a precautionary basis. i agree with those like mrs ždanoka and mrs roure that we do not have enough experience to be confident of avoiding problems, for instance with fingerprinting six-year-olds. the commissioner talked about whether we might not get going on the basis of having only verification between 6 and 12. now that might meet some concerns, but not, i think, those of practicality and the cost of having to collect them every two years. frankly, i do not think the council thought that one through at all. as mrs roure pointed out we are supposed to be building – or already to have – a common visa policy. that is why it is so disappointing that member states basically have no willingness at all to cooperate on the same premises, and that they want to apply different visa fees by topping up the eur 60. i would like the commission to be rather proactive in trying to push the member states to cooperate in different locations. mrs klamt, whom i very much thank for her constructive criticism and willingness to work with us, has suggested that taking fingerprints of children from the age of six would be an effective tool against child trafficking. i have to say i am not aware of any serious research suggesting it would achieve this aim. why choose the age of six? why not five, or four, or three, or indeed zero? there might be a far bigger risk of baby-snatching than of six-year-olds being kidnapped. finally, mr coelho’s suggestion to merge this report with the visa code is an interesting one. he has thrown what cricketers call a ‘googly’ into this debate and i think we will have to take that back to the committee and see what they think about that. in one sense i am open-minded but i think it is up to the committee.
mr president, i continue to see much to welcome in this package, but i do have an abiding concern, and that relates to the all-important issue of delivery. how, commissioner, do we assure across the eu that these measures do not induce some distortion in competition? not arising out of anything the commission may do, but arising from the fact that it is a reality that some member states are much more enthusiastic about public expenditure and reaching out to help sectors than other member states, and where there is reticence in some and enthusiasm in others, will there not be an uneven application and drawdown of these measures, with a potential impact on competition? how will you monitor that? indeed, will you monitor it, and what action will you take if distortion results? my second issue is also somewhat parochial and focuses particularly on the fleet adaptation scheme. within that, you anticipate special support measures, on condition that the scheme brings about a permanent reduction of 30% in a fleet’s capacity. take the united kingdom, commissioner. there we have three of the constituent countries: scotland, wales and northern ireland, where fishing is a devolved issue, with devolved governments making the decisions. it is entirely conceivable that any one of them could come up with a fleet adjustment scheme for their own region whereby fleet capacity would be reduced by 30%. but taken across the whole united kingdom, because others have dragged their feet, that may not be the overall outcome. is that fair? are there any steps that the commission can take to alleviate that unfairness? in short, can the commission look at any steps to deal with that potential inequity in countries where there are regional governments which might be pulling their weight and national governments which are not?
mr president, the alde group welcomes the proposal for a regulation but shares the general feeling of regret that we have not had time to submit fully considered amendments to it. it is good, therefore, to hear that the commission will take full note of the concerns expressed both in committee this morning and in the course of tonight’s debate and that it will negotiate with the council to make such adjustments as are appropriate. two such concerns relate to partial decommissioning, both in terms of whether it will detract too much from the targets for capacity reduction and about the uses to which any subsidies might be put. it would be helpful to gain some reassurances from the commission in these regards. as to the two amendments, the first, we think, is effectively already covered by the text. we sympathise a great deal with the second, as we believe it is intended to address the concerns just mentioned, but we feel that it might actually prove counter-productive to capacity reduction. so, rather than vote in haste to promote its inclusion in a legislative text, we ask the commission to consider the merits of the idea, and also that of developing other measures that place emphasis on the reduction of fuel consumption. finally, and on a more personal note, i would point to two sentences in the commission communication. these read: ‘it is essential that this package is applied in a way that safeguards a level playing field across the union. there should be no distortion of competition among eu fishermen resulting from the different ability of member states to mobilise public or community funding.’ i would endorse the point that has already been made that there should equally be no distortion of competition resulting from the different willingness of member states to mobilise such funding. i trust that all possible steps will be taken to ensure that each and every one of them with a fishing fleet takes advantage of the opportunities that the regulation offers.
mr president, i think that we are all well aware of the negative impacts of the current oil and fuel prices. only in june, age concern scotland said that fuel price rises will leave more vulnerable people struggling to keep warm this winter. a charity spokesman said, and i quote, ‘every time fuel prices increase by 1%, this results in about a thousand people in scotland living in fuel poverty’. many of these are the poorest pensioners, who are on a very low fixed income and could already be living below the poverty line. in this context, we might well ask why the commission is dashing to the supposed rescue of one particular sector. i say ‘supposed’ rescue because i think we have to question whether the studied rewriting of the eff guidelines, and potentially the de minimis guidelines, can ensure that we have a sustainable fishing industry. i doubt that this package will satisfy the demands of some of the fishing sector, especially if fuel prices remain high and we still have excess capacity. in a recent reply from the commission on the extent of overcapacity in the eu fishing fleet, i was informed that the commission estimates that we have, and i quote, ‘significant overcapacity in some community fisheries of, on average, at least 40%’. the communication and accompanying council regulation refer to the need to reduce overcapacity. let us make sure that is delivered upon.
mr president, as we are allowed to ask another question, i would like to put this question to the commissioner. in the light of the partial decommissioning schemes and the proposal that we possibly reallocate 25% of the fishing capacity permanently withdrawn to new vessels, would this effectively mean reintroducing harmful subsidies for vessel construction?
madam president, it did not take very long for us to get back to business as usual. in the run-up to the irish referendum there were no end of reports saying ‘please don’t publish this until after the irish have voted’. as soon as the ballots were safely counted, we have gone back to our agenda of harmonising policy, particularly in the field of militarisation and justice and home affairs. the last time we met in this chamber as an assembly, speaker after speaker spoke about respecting the irish vote, ‘but ...’. now we understand what the ‘but’ meant. the ‘but’ meant that we should disregard the outcome and push ahead with this process of harmonising criminal justice, civil law, immigration, asylum and the rest of the home affairs field. no more are we even pretending to respect the verdict of the people. we are back in our own little world where we pretend that the voters do not exist and we continue with what we were doing anyway.
madam president, i am sure many people are interested in what i am going to say. i really want to talk about the idea that we repeatedly go from one crisis to another crisis in the fisheries sector without really trying to tackle the fundamental problem. and the fundamental problem with the fisheries sector is actually the common fisheries policy, a policy based on soviet-style central planning where quotas are allocated to various member states. surely the time has come to rip apart this piece of communist central planning and to move to a situation where we have property rights-based solutions. let us look at some of the most successful solutions to preserving fishing stocks: in new zealand, for example, and in iceland, where they are based on property rights and transferable property rights. it is time to stop the eu thinking in terms of central planning and becoming an ‘eussr’. let us move to a free market-based economy.
madam president, i am realising that the civil liberties committee of this parliament is almost the last place where one expects to find any defence of civil liberties. we saw the beginning of a rather worrying streak of intolerance in that committee when mr buttiglione was opposed as a commission nominee. we then saw the most draconian legislation pushed through under the pretext of anti-terror rules. i cannot forget the liberal democrat leader graham watson’s comment that osama bin laden had done more for the process of european integration than anyone since jacques delors! and now in the vote we have just had, we see this quite bizarre refusal even to consider the facts of the case. i do not know whether the italian government is right when it claims that there are inaccuracies in this report. my own instincts are liberal on this. i do not like the idea of databases, i do not like the idea of finger-printing. but surely basic courtesy and basic fairness ought to have prompted us to allow the government to invite a group from this parliament to assess the facts of the case, before voting. pushing ahead with the vote before even listening to all the facts confirms that, just as the employment committee is the last place to defend employment, just as the committee on fisheries is the last place to defend fisheries… (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, i am very happy to speak on this motion because i actually voted in favour of it, like many colleagues in this house. however, my request to parliamentarians and politicians across europe is: let us ensure that this is not just warm words, just to appease our conscience. let us look at actions, not words. i refer, of course, to the lisbon summit, where we invited mugabe, despite the sanctions. i look, of course, to the rome summit on the food crisis and food security: we invited robert mugabe and his henchmen to shop in some of the most luxurious shops of europe while his people were starving. the time for warm words is over. it is all very well us feeling great about what we said, but we have got to put those words into action: we have got to impose these sanctions against the mugabe regime. let us stop being hypocritical, especially my portuguese and my italian friends.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution and, like mr kamall, i have received an increasing number of letters over the last few years about the situation in zimbabwe. the people i represent across the east midlands of the united kingdom simply cannot understand how we can always state such strong opinions about zimbabwe in this place, but allow mr mugabe into the continent to break bread with our leaders. there is something seriously wrong and seriously hypocritical about that; it devalues this institution and many others. so i hope that in the future we can sort this situation out, get rid of this awful man, and democracy can prosper in zimbabwe.
madam president, i wish to begin by apologising to all my colleagues in this house for holding up the next speaker. i forget his name, but i also hope he will stand up when he speaks and show some respect for this house. we were promised that galileo would not be a white elephant, but that we were looking for a role for it. if you look at all the other satellite systems – the chinese and russian satellite systems and the american gps – people are asking why we need galileo. it is quite clear, if you look at this system – the white elephant in the sky – that we are looking for more and more uses for it. now we are looking for a military dimension. why do we need this military dimension? we clearly do not need it. it is based purely on envy of the americans and ‘me too’ politics. let us scrap this complete nonsense and let us save the taxpayers money, return it to the taxpayers and rely on much better technology.
in writing. − the negative impact of the current oil and fuel prices affects all eu citizens. this ‘supposed rescue’ package will do little to ensure a sustainable fishing industry. although i support capacity reduction – currently some community fisheries are at least 40% over capacity – i do not think this proposal will achieve the changes required to achieve a sustainable eu fishing sector. with 80% of eu stocks at worrying levels we need real capacity reduction, not renewed boat building at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. − british conservative meps have voted against this resolution as the issue the text deals with is one which is wholly a matter for internal affairs of one member state and thus has no bearing at an eu level.
in writing. − just substitute ‘jew’ for ‘roma’ and we know where this proposal is coming from and where, unless it is vigorously opposed, it will go.
in writing. − italy’s actions fly in the face of every call from the european parliament for a coherent eu policy on roma integration. roma are one of the main targets of racism and discrimination. the italian government is trying to condone and institutionalise such racism and discrimination. italian authorities must refrain from fingerprinting roma and i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − the treatment of roma people in italy should be a wake up call to the fact that minorities in europe are being treated in an inhuman, discriminatory and degrading manner by a populist right-wing government. finger printing of children is plainly wrong. this echoes a time past and should have no place in modern-day europe. i call on all governments to condemn the italian government and to act quickly to protect roma children in italy.
in writing. − the decision on whether to attend the olympic opening ceremony is one that i believe should be approached collectively. it is not one that is necessarily shared by all my socialist colleagues. nevertheless, on that basis i see no good reason to boycott the ceremony or the games. even the dalai lama supports that position. equally the proposal to invite the dalai lama to the general affairs council is absurd to anyone who is not deliberately trying to undermine the eu-china relationship. as for discrimination against groups in china, such as trade unionists, there is rightly cause for concern, but criticism coming from those who want to stigmatise italy’s roma community is a little rich. ‘remove the plank from your own eye before the mote from your neighbour’s.’
in writing. − the way the chinese dealt with the aftermath of the earthquake in southwest china was an example of the progress the country has made in recent years. nevertheless, there is still a need for further progress on human rights in the country. it is only through engaging both sides in constructive dialogue that tangible progress on this issue can be made. the olympics was hailed as a prime opportunity to add weight to this dialogue and encourage improvements in human rights and freedoms. i would therefore stress that china must intensify its efforts to deliver on promises publicly made to the international olympic commission to improve human and democratic rights. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − i welcome mr brok’s report on the commission’s 2007 enlargement strategy paper. the eu must continue to be seen to uphold promises it has previously made on enlargement. indeed, strict and fair conditionality must be applied to all candidates and potential candidates to whom we make these promises. i believe the report adequately deals with these issues and i voted in favour of mr brok’s report.
in writing. − british conservatives have always been and remain strong supporters of eu enlargement, as it provides a larger single market and a looser and more flexible europe of nation states. however, this report includes elements we are unable to support. we do not believe in europe as a ‘political integration project’. in addition, we disagree with the main aspects of paragraph 19, which calls for ‘an area based on common policies’ in fields such as justice, security, migration and visa-free movement and education, which british conservatives cannot support. also, we are unhappy with paragraph 6, which states: ‘developing an area of freedom, security and justice, of fully maintaining and building on its acquis communautaire and of upholding fundamental rights and freedoms, as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union’. our concerns about these and other parts of the report in no sense diminish our support for further enlargement of the eu, should applicant states meet the copenhagen criteria. for the reasons set out above, we have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution today and hope that council will follow it up with strong concerted action. i also hope that the changing attitudes that we are seeing amongst african leaders will also mean that we do not have to suffer the humiliating sight of mr. mugabe attending international meetings on eu territory. mugabe's current power has been gained through the blood and suffering of his people. our government's should not be compounding that by forcibly returning people to zimbabwe. not only can they find themselves in physical danger there but they can also add to the instability of the situation and pressure on diminishing resources. giving these people a legal migration status and allowing them to work would be the one guaranteed positive measure our governments can offer: it would also mean that, when return is possible, people are going back with active skills and potential financial resources which will help grass-roots development. indeed, governments should be adopting such a policy towards those who cannot return to other countries which are in conflict. the people of zimbabwe need our support in every way possible.
in writing. − the situation in zimbabwe is cause for concern. i join my colleagues in condemning the zanu-pf party’s behaviour throughout the elections and would also stress that the elections of 27 june cannot be regarded as legitimate. fresh elections should be organised that respect democratic norms. the suggestion of reaching an agreement on a transitional administration in the country is worth investigating as a way of getting out of the current democratic impasse zimbabwe currently finds itself in. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − i deplore the situation in zimbabwe and call on all meps, the commission, council and all national governments to condemn mugabe and seek a way through this crisis. i welcome the statement by the g8 where they refuse to accept the legitimacy of any government that does not reflect the will of the zimbabwean people.
in writing. − the european union must develop its own space capabilities. we are against the weaponisation of space but do recognise that, while the us refuses to cooperate closely with the union for the joint use of satellite facilities during times of peace and war, we have no alternative but to try to deploy our own system in europe. the development of europe’s common foreign and security policy and europe’s security and defence capabilities requires a space dimension. mr von wogau – the chairman of our subcommittee on security and defence – has done parliament and europe a service with this report, which we should follow up subsequently.
in writing. − i generally welcome mr von wogau’s report on space security. i support the rapporteur’s stipulation that space should not become weaponised. the development of voluntary instruments which could enhance space security is a positive step in ensuring a responsible space policy. the community budgets from which the esdp is funded are currently intergovernmental; consequently i feel it would be inappropriate to prejudge such spending in the report. these views are reflected in my vote.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party welcomes this parliamentary report, and in particular we support the development of an eu code of conduct for activities in space, along with the development of voluntary instruments which could enhance space security. we are, however, concerned not to prejudge decisions about the future eu budget; esdp activities are funded from the community budgets, which are currently inter-governmental. for this reason we voted against two amendments which suggested this in relation to space-related esdp activities.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would put it to the president-in-office that the irish vote against the treaty has made his impressively prepared presidency more problematic. it has also made the case for a practical, problem-solving europe stronger than ever. the energy and climate packages become more urgent every day. capping vat is a short-term sop: europe should be cutting its dependence on oil and gas. we need much more investment in renewable energy: small-scale and localised to bring household bills down, and large-scale, such as using the union for the mediterranean to invest in high-voltage solar thermal power production in north africa. on tuesday the g8, which is the source of nearly two thirds of the world’s co2, approved an emissions-reduction target of 50%. but the emerging economies are right to say that the target should be higher – perhaps 80% – with interim targets. to stabilise food prices we need good ideas, such as the recent cap reforms of commissioner fischer boel, not protectionism, however disguised. the truth is that people care more about the petrol price and the bread bill than about the grand aims of our union. today nobody should say ‘qu’ils mangent de la brioche’ (‘let them eat cake’). the president-in-office is right to put the focus on migration. but migration will be manageable only when we manage the despair that leads so many to risk so much to come here. there should be routes for legal migration, a crackdown on people-smuggling, and reform of our farm policy to kick-start growth in the countries of origin. it may be optimistic to ask a french presidency to liberalise markets. but to bring security within our borders we must bring hope beyond them. there is another way in which the french presidency can break new ground. france gave us the rights of man. now france must lead in their defence. at home, by pressing ahead with the anti-discrimination directive. abroad: by anchoring peace in the balkans in a european union future; by using the union for the mediterranean to improve human rights in north africa; and by uniting in our dealings with russia and condemning china’s crackdown on dissent. monsieur le président en exercice, n'allez pas à pékin. jouez collectif. (applaudissements) c'est voltaire qui nous a dit: "les mortels sont égaux; ce n'est pas la naissance, c'est la seule vertu qui fait la différence." and by taking a lead, europe can demonstrate its virtue and demand that the dignity of every man and woman be recognised. president-in-office, to succeed, you will need to build consensus. you will need parliament, council and commission to work together to a common agenda set by 27 member states and this house. if we are to argue, it must be about that agenda, not its messengers. you have plunged into a polemic with the president of the ecb and with two commissioners, but they represent our union and the policies we have agreed. it is not the european way to divide and rule. we must stand on our principles but work together to achieve our common goals. monsieur le président, je sais, j'arrive à la fin, mais devant le mari de mme carla bruni, vous me donnez "soixante petites secondes pour ma dernière minute". (rires) president-in-office, if you stand on your principles and let us work together to achieve common goals, if you do that, liberals and democrats will work with you. (applause)
mr president, i welcome the president-in-office of the council. firstly, may i thank you, sir, on behalf of the british conservative delegation for your hospitality last week and say how much we look forward to working with you to ensure a successful presidency. we are confident of your energy and your commitment and, having read a very good book recently, we are confident of your vision. i refer, of course, to your own book témoignage. for those colleagues who have not yet had the benefit of reading this remarkable work, may i suggest that you do so and, in particular, i recommend that you open the book on page 146. there you describe the follies of the 35-hour week and you describe the benefits: to use the ump slogan, ‘travailler plus pour gagner plus’. you go on to say: ‘rather than the uniform and rigid policy of the 35 hours and the guillotine of retirement at 60, i think our fellow citizens expect a policy of free choice which permits those that wish to earn more to work more and for everyone to regulate their own working hours according to their lifestyle.’ president-in-office, you have got it in one! that is the true social europe. it is not for governments to force people to work more or compel them to work less, but it is for governments to enable people to work more if people choose to work more. your party is about freedom; your party is about choice, and that is what the british conservative party is about as well. so, if these principles guide your presidency, we shall be alongside you all the way. when the working time directive is revised, we shall be on the side of freedom and choice; when the temporary workers directive is reviewed, we shall, again, be on the side of freedom and choice. finally, president-in-office, let me say that our parties should not just be about enabling free choice; they are also about respecting the people’s choice once the people have freely chosen. therefore, i urge you to respect the choice of the people of ireland in their recent referendum. i urge you to regard their decision not as a problem to be addressed but as an opportunity to be grasped – an opportunity for europe to reconnect with its people. this will, of course, take much work with you and your colleagues on the council. but as you yourself have said: travailler plus pour gagner plus.
mr president, i should like to reply to mr sarkozy. you are a very good orator, mr sarkozy, but i am not so sure that you are that good a listener. this presidency programme that you have unveiled this morning shows that you want a european union that controls literally every single aspect of our lives, everything from a common immigration policy through to how we run our hospitals and our football clubs. i also took it from your comments that you want us to be very isolated from the rest of the world, that if people do not have the same standards as us we are not going to trade with them. but worst of all, it is the sheer arrogance of saying that you know best when it comes to the european project. you are showing contempt, not just for the irish people, but for the very concept of democracy which you say you are a champion of. you said the polish president must keep his word, that he must ratify the treaty because that was his agreement. well, the irish people have spoken. will you respect the irish vote? will you keep your side of that bargain which says this treaty is dead? i do not think that you get it, do you? the peoples of europe do not want deeper political integration. that is why in france they said ‘no’, and in holland they said ‘no’, and in ireland they said ‘no’, and if we had a vote in britain an overwhelming majority of us would have said ‘no’. what price democracy, mr sarkozy? you are going to dublin on 21 july. please do not try to do with them as you did in france and try to bypass a second referendum, try to get them to change the rules and to ratify this treaty through the back door. that would be showing utter contempt for democracy. please do not do it.
mr president, i think the previous speakers have made valid points. i thought i understood mr leinen in reading out the rules – and he will correct me if i am wrong – to imply that the members should at least be here at the beginning of the sitting, even if they then leave. any other interpretation surely would be entirely self-serving, because people who are absent can put in a demand to say that there is no quorum, but they have helped to ensure that there is no quorum! i cannot see how it could possibly be right to conclude that they can be entirely absent and say that the rest of us do not form a quorum. the other fact is, frankly, habit on thursday afternoons. we know there is never a quorum for the urgencies and, if is suddenly to be invoked now, that may be a problem with the rules that we will have to sort out. if you are going to torpedo this afternoon’s urgencies, you could torpedo every thursday afternoon’s urgencies. my basic point is: how could it be possible to interpret the rules to say that 40 absent people can say to the rest of us that we do not form a quorum and ensure that we do not make a quorum?
mr president, actually the quorum issue does not relate to this debate. the debate can take place. the quorum issue concerns voting. i am surprised we are actually discussing this issue now because the quorum is really needed for the vote. i agree with all my colleagues that these urgencies are very important issues. however, we have hardly any people here. last time 58 out of 785 members voted in this house. i really do not think it enhances the credibility of this house if you have so few voting and taking part on major issues. so i would urge you to make a decision at the vote because the issue is that it is not acceptable that there is never a quorum. we think these urgencies are important. we should make sure that members are present. we are trying to make sure that people do turn up to vote for these urgencies. it is not ok for us to keep passing urgencies when we do not have the full number of people.
author. − mr president, i welcome the opportunity to debate this particular issue because it is of great concern to many of us in this house whenever, in any part of the world, a significant number of graves come to light that are only accessible with permission of the security forces. therefore this motion for a resolution – along with the hearing in the subcommittee on human rights next week – takes on an even greater significance because of the political and security situation in the area. as this house well knows, we have ourselves debated that general situation before, perhaps also under less than transparent conditions. there is indeed a history of disappearances in the region. we know that a number of these have been linked to the activities of the security forces. we know that it is the most heavily militarised area in the world. we know that this also is an area where there are arrests and significant detention without trial. therefore that also colours our interpretation of such findings, making it all the more important that there should be a really open investigation allowing full transparency and full access for the international community. i hope that the european union will, as the resolution states, offer its support for high-quality forensic expertise and any other assistance which is needed in this investigation, because it is important for our interpretation of what is happening there that we reach the fullest possible understanding. with that also goes – as others have said – the protection of human rights activists who are themselves trying to investigate the issue, such as pervez imroz. i think we would all agree that it is the duty of all democratically elected governments to investigate such findings fully in complete transparency, and to try and trace those whose bodies are there and their relatives, so that we can fully understand the situation and not apply various interpretations to it which might not be the truth. i think parliament is absolutely right to be discussing this issue, and absolutely right to be calling on the commission to offer its assistance, particularly given the ongoing problems that we are seeing in the region at present.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, just for the record, i am not an author of this resolution. i do not know who has put my name down because i have not signed it. i just want to say that i am really surprised to see this item as an urgency before we have debated it properly in either the subcommittee on human rights, or for that matter, any other subcommittee or delegation of this parliament. this is not a new issue and it has been extensively investigated by the media in india. it has been raised over and over again. it would have been good to have had the debate before. this is the reason that the socialist group were against having this item as an urgency now because we believed it should have been properly discussed in committee before. the whole urgency is based on reports by a single ngo. i am not denying that these things are happening, but i have had communication with the commission, who are calling into question various things in this report. so i would really question what it does for this parliament’s credibility to have an urgency before things are properly investigated. as chairwoman of the european parliament’s delegation for relations with india, i personally would have liked an opportunity to look at the contents of this report and examine how many cases we are looking at and the result of the conflict in the region, where there have already been something like 4 500 deaths among military personnel and 13 000 civilians have lost their lives. the graves we are talking about are in the line of control. this resolution text ignores the fact that the issue has been investigated over the last five years, following the 2002 elections, and i have been informed that ngos have had access to the area and have been invited to submit their names of disappeared persons to help the authorities to identify the graves. nobody is denying that security forces have been involved in disappearances. what this resolution leaves out is that they have been investigated by the authorities. i personally would urge this house not to vote for this resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think we should be clear what this motion for a resolution is not: it is not a re-run of the rather controversial and contentious report that we had last year; it is not about how to get a political solution to the territorial dispute and conflict over kashmir. it is nothing of the sort. it is a simple focus on humanitarian questions, with a call for an independent and impartial investigation and accountability for alleged disappearances. it could have been handled in various ways. it is true that these discoveries of unidentified graves go back to 2006. but two things prompted the urgency request. one was the report going back to 29 march from the association of the parents of disappeared persons and the second was the attack on 30 june, with perpetrators unknown, on pervez imroz, the award-winning human rights lawyer and founder of that association. i think that justifies the urgency. at least part of the purpose of this resolution is to urge some action by the european union, not least in paragraph 2, which urges the commission to offer financial and technical assistance to the indian government. it also calls for eu member states to take up the issue in the dialogue on human rights with the indian government in the second half of this year. so the focus is on getting an independent investigation and not least to assign a civilian prosecutor to the task. i think it is justified and is something that has a particular and circumscribed focus and does not talk about the whole issue of kashmir.
author. − mr president, as we know, parliament has been concerned about the situation in bangladesh for a considerable period of time. we supported calls for moves to ensure free and fair elections and we also supported the calls from civil society for revised and updated electoral registers to ensure that maximum participation would be possible within those elections. i think it is important to say that we very much welcome the progress that has been made on that new electronic register. it is a major task which has been undertaken and indeed, if it is fulfilled in time and ensures that minority groups etc. are also included on it, this will really be an historic achievement by the bangladeshi authorities. we know that the electoral register has also had a very positive effect already, certainly for a number of women from poorer families and backgrounds, who feel that at last they have an identity, that they can now borrow small amounts of money to set up their own businesses etc. so there have been some positive moves. we also welcome recent action on war criminals and the action that the government, or at least some of it, has taken against corruption. but we have major concerns about the role and activity of the continuing interim government and the state of emergency. there are some who have said that the state of emergency is a technical issue, as it were, to ensure that a government can at least continue beyond the caretaker period. but whether one agrees with that or not, i think that what is happening with the state of emergency is really beginning to reflect a clear lack of checks and balances within the system there, particularly given the reports, as we have just been hearing, of mass arrests, the lack of due process, the allegations of torture, reports of extrajudicial killings, pressure on journalists and increasing violence against women. so there is a clear need for the interim government to rein in the security forces, to cease the mass arrests and to proceed to either charge or release those people arrested and to ensure due process. certainly this resolution reflects the wish which i think is there in parliament to lift the state of emergency and to ensure that civil society can proceed to full, fair, free elections with the support of the european union, at any rate in its electoral monitoring capacity.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, having chaired the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and having visited bangladesh, i would say that this is a fragile state which has faced more than its fair share of political, environmental, economic and social setbacks. however, when i was there i was impressed by the vibrant and free media and the determination of the people to overcome their difficulties. i believe the focus of our relations with bangladesh should be to support the democratic movements in the country and the establishment of rule of law, as well as helping to build democratic institutions. whilst the eu has an important role in assisting bangladesh to achieve these goals, this should be translated into constructive action towards assisting the country, not into trying to micromanage their problems. i really welcome the announcement of elections scheduled for the third week of december this year and i call on the caretaker government to ensure that these elections will be free and fair, and to allow the election commission to continue with its road map. i would like to address the points mr mann raised against me because i think it is not proper to take on points from the previous debate. i would say that, if we take our urgencies really seriously, mr mann should make sure that those people are here. the onus is on all of us to make sure that our colleagues are here because we have minority groups influencing how the european parliament is viewed across the world. it is important when we have these debates that we keep that in mind: it is important to have urgencies, but get all your people here.
in writing. – bangladesh is a large and strategic south asian country with 153 million inhabitants and some 80 million registered electors, making it one of the world’s largest democracies. the caretaker government has now informed the eu and usa that it will proceed to democratic elections in december 2008, having successfully completed an electoral register which is robust against fraud. the military are now committed to withdrawing from policy-making. ex-prime minister sheikh hasina has been released on humanitarian grounds. the emergency powers, which this resolution rightly wishes to see lifted, are still in place and need to go before the election. the large numbers arrested following the violence last year, which led to the state of emergency, need to be released or charged. long-term eu observers should return as soon as possible to monitor the pre-election situation. the eu is watching bangladesh very carefully, given the concerns about the deteriorating human rights situation over the last few years and increasing islamist radicalisation of its society, with an exodus of hindus, ahmadias and christians, and the government’s seeming abandonment of its successful model of a secular multiparty democracy. bangladesh has the makings of a successful democracy in the muslim world and the eu needs to strongly support this.
author. − mr president, this case certainly is an urgency because, as we have been hearing, the execution is due to take place by the end of this month. so i would urge each and every one of us in this chamber and listening to this debate to make personal representations to the american government – and indeed the georgia state government – to see if clemency can be applied. then we would move towards a retrial, if that is necessary. at least we would have a living being and a retrial would be able to take place. i think it is really important that we take our personal responsibility on this as well as looking to representations by parliament. certainly, in this particular case, the evidence – as we have also been hearing from many of the witnesses – has been retracted and contradicted. the american bar association’s georgia death penalty assessment team released a report looking at the circumstances in that particular state and felt that one of the major problems they had found was inadequate defence counsel, and a concern that defendants already on death row may not have had adequate counsel at the time of their trials. they noted that georgia was the only state that did not provide lawyers to death row inmates for their post-conviction appeals. so there are a number of reasons to be very concerned about this particular case, which is the one cited in the title of the resolution on the death penalty, notably the case of troy davis. but i would also like to raise other cases, in particular what is happening at the moment with some of those still detained in guantánamo. one case in particular concerns a british resident, binyamin mohamed, who has been detained there for over six years now and is likely to face a military commission where the death penalty is all too possibly an outcome. this parliament, and the european union as a whole, takes a very strong view on the death penalty. we consider that it is not something that a civilised society should be applying, and that there are all too many reasons for death penalties not to be imposed. the case of troy davis is, i think, an absolutely classic example of the real problems with the implementation of the death penalty. once again, as well as what is called for in this particular resolution, i would call on each and every one of us, as responsible individuals, also to take action in communicating our distress on this particular case.
mr president, reference was made to me earlier by mr matsakis and i wanted to respond to it. i did not want to abuse the catch-the-eye system on a different debate, which was an important issue on the death penalty. but i think he made reference to my not understanding the system of urgencies. i would just like to say, for the record, that i have been involved in a number of urgencies and i would say that it is the least transparent and open system we have. of course in my group we have a debate about it, but urgencies are only agreed on the thursday before strasbourg and there is an hour-long meeting on the tuesday before, where urgencies are quickly cobbled together. i think that some of these issues are not urgent and should be properly debated in this parliament to maintain its credibility.
mr president, could you verify whether there are 40 members here, because it is very difficult to tell?
mr president, i wanted to raise with you quite a serious case about a sri lankan journalist, mr j. s. tissainayagam, which we raised on our recent delegation visit to sri lanka. he is a very well-known writer and journalist and has been running, amongst other things, a german-government-funded website called ‘outreach’ promoting peace and justice. at that point he had been detained without charge for over four months in poor conditions, and he was finally charged and remanded in custody last week under the country’s prevention of terrorism act, with charges related to bringing the government into disrepute and stirring up communal disharmony. we would ask you, mr president, to use your good offices with council and commission to follow this important case, not least to see to it that he be able to meet his lawyers in private – which he has not been able to do yet – and that there will be full disclosure of the evidence against him.
mr president, the eu often shows interest, with good intention, in my constituency of northern ireland. however, i wish to warn it against funding a project of immense divisive potential. i refer to the foolish embracing by the eu task force, at the behest of the dup and sinn fein leaders of the northern ireland executive, of possible support for a so-called ‘conflict transformation centre’ at the site of the former maze prison. however it is dressed up and whatever spin is deployed, the preservation of the h-block section, including the hospital wing, would become a shrine to the terrorists who committed suicide in the maze in the 1980s. that would be obnoxious to the vast majority of people, and is something that unionists, whom i represent, would not accept. i would therefore caution the commission against meddling with such an explosive issue and against being used by those anxious to hide behind the eu to deliver something which will severely set back relations in northern ireland.
mr president, during the summer break in northern ireland, the region i come from, we suffered very heavy falls of rain during the month of august. while many areas suffered, there were flash floods washing away topsoil, destroying many hectares of potatoes and flattening grain. i visited some of the areas that were worst affected, and what i witnessed was a pitiful sight for those who had worked so hard to try and produce food at this time, with road and bridges washed away as well as some livestock being lost. now farmers are well used to battling the weather to survive, but on this occasion these small areas could and should be helped. in europe we have the solidarity fund that should be made available to the northern ireland executive by the commission, and i would ask you to write to the head of the commission, to contact the office of the first minister in northern ireland to see how best it can help.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, i welcome these reports, especially the one on in absentia, because it will make it easier and simpler for those who have to defend or take legal action where one or the other party is not able to be present. differences in approach across the union have created a degree of uncertainty and have undermined confidence in each other’s judicial systems. i therefore welcome the statement made by the minister that the council will try and ensure that this process is harmonised across all member states, because to date some member states have not made every effort to contact the defendants. i believe that the onus has to be on the judicial system, wherever it is, to ensure that the defendants understand the implications of any judgments made in their absence, and that their fundamental rights are protected in this respect. i would also call upon the council to ensure that all member states have a system where defendants are able to have legal representation regardless of the country they may reside in. finally, my congratulations to all the rapporteurs in their work to simplify a complex set of legal processes and proposals that i believe will give substance to the european arrest warrant.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when our prime ministers’ meeting almost a decade ago in tampere set out the main guidelines for eu criminal justice policy, they rightly stressed that european citizens had the right to expect the union to ensure there was no hiding place for criminals. that is why european liberal democrats have consistently supported measures like the european arrest warrant, unlike british conservatives who spout hot air on law and order but oppose eu cooperation instruments. those measures also explain the justification for strengthening the ability of national prosecutors to work together in eurojust and bring major criminals to justice. it is legitimate to ensure that they are available around the clock and to give them more powers to get their decisions implemented, like issuing search and seizure warrants in their own member states and accessing their own national criminal databases. there is also certainly scope for clarifying and streamlining the rules on when judgments delivered in absentia without the presence of the accused will be recognised, but this must not shade into lazy habits of not trying hard enough to inform the defendant. i would not want every member state to copy the worrying italian volume of in absentia trials. when i questioned the commission a few months ago, it stressed that the initiative was balanced, increasing the fundamental rights of citizens while also enhancing the principle of mutual recognition. but bodies like the european criminal bar association, the council of bars and law societies, and fair trials international have all expressed fears at weak safeguards for defendants. the presidency minister stressed and promised that the council would consider parliament’s amendments with attention. i am sure she means well, but my response is: big deal. directly-elected meps are marginalised in decisions on eu law as regards cross-border justice. until we get the treaty of lisbon into force those laws are largely decided by national civil servants and that is a big part of the reason why the second part of the 10-year-old deal, which promised to raise justice standards in member states like good data protection rules and to strengthen defendants’ rights like legal aid, translation and bail, have not been kept. until we get a democratic instead of a technocratic eu justice policy, one truly balanced between catching criminals and guaranteeing fair trials, support for the measures discussed now must be qualified.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, here is a concrete example of what a one-size-fits-all integrated european judicial system leads to. a 19-year-old man in london, andrew symeou, faces extradition to greece on a manslaughter charge. mr symeou maintains that he has nothing whatsoever to do with the crime in question. the evidence against him is suspect, depending on dubious identification and statements allegedly beaten out of his friends by the greek police. that evidence should be scrutinised by a british court before it agrees to his extradition. however, under a european arrest warrant, a british court now has no right to examine prima facie evidence in order to satisfy itself that extradition is justified, and no power to prevent it. the european arrest warrant means that british citizens now effectively no longer enjoy the basic protection of the law against arbitrary arrest and detention as established by magna carta. that does not serve the interests of justice for the victim or the accused, both of whom deserve it.
madam president, i rise to speak solely on the frança report on mutual recognition of judgements in absentia. the very concept of this proposal is alien to many judicial systems within member states, especially those who have a legal system based on common law. in the uk we have over centuries built up our legal system based on the idea of habeas corpus and the right of the defendant not to be judged unless he has the opportunity to defend himself. this principle is enshrined in the well-known document i have here – magna carta of 1215 – which has guaranteed this right in my country for 800 years. recognition of trials in absentia goes wholly against the basic ideals of this historic document. for a judgment to be made in one member state and subsequently recognised in another, once a european arrest warrant has been issued, certainly raises the question of whether a fair trial has taken place. the organisation fair trials international, in their paper on this proposal, mirrors my concerns and highlights – and i quote – ‘significant concerns on the issue of extradition procedure to be followed’. colleagues, i urge you to look seriously at what is proposed and think how this will affect your constituents and their right to a fair trial.
madam president, no sensible person wants to make life easy for criminals, but we do have to guard against justice in europe being reduced to the lowest common denominator. and with such a wide range of judicial procedures, safeguards and processes across the eu, talk of obtaining judicial equivalence often involves exactly that. in the united kingdom, our common-law-based legal system is quite different in practice, precedent and processes to the system in our continental neighbours. so when i see reports that are predicated on the fusion of practice for fusion’s sake, i must be concerned. i take the report on mutual recognition of judgments in absentia. i frankly say that there is not equivalence between the painstaking judicial precautions taken before someone is convicted in absentia in the united kingdom and what seems to me the far more casual approach in, for example, greece or bulgaria. therefore, i do not agree that my british constituent convicted there in his absence should have that conviction automatically recognised in the uk.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. the compromises we have achieved with the council are sensible and effective, and i say this as the original rapporteur on the schengen border code. brevity is the source of wit, so i will detain the house no more, other than thanking – as every mep should – the two wonderful assistants, renaud and maris, who work with me and who make my work not only enjoyable but also productive.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the rapporteur on the visa information system (vis), and still working on the amendment of the common consular instructions to govern the actual collection of the biometrics, i take a great interest in anything that concerns the visa information system. when we decided on the vis, we allowed for this three-year period when the search could be done using just the visa sticker, without the fingerprints in the vis. but i have slightly mixed feelings about the compromise. i support it because that is what has been able to be agreed. but on the other hand the commission has rightly said that only a biometric check can confirm with certainty that the person wishing to enter is the one to whom the visa has been issued, and therefore a systematic consultation of the vis, including a biometric check by border guards, should be performed for each visa holder. i am therefore a little bit worried about the derogation and the ability to have random checks. i shall look forward to this report after three years, and ensure that flexibility has not become a loophole, because of course if we are going to have the vis we had better apply it properly.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their serious interest and commitment, and all those who have contributed to this report. the dublin ii regulation, as you will know, is part of the european common asylum system and it determines which member state is responsible for the examination and determination of an asylum claim. its effect is also linked very much to the sound implementation of other directives, such as the reception and the procedures directives. our committee report makes clear that the dublin regulation, and indeed the system as a whole, is a system based on mutual trust and reliability, so that all member states have to fulfil their responsibilities. we have a number of concerns which we address in this report – although i obviously will not address them all here – about the quality of delivery in terms of the asylum system, the impact on the individuals concerned and whether dublin ii is effective overall. what problems does it create for some member states? are we almost looking at something and making it too simple for the complexity of the issue? on the quality of delivery, we know that there are enormous variations between member states in delivering a fair and thorough examination of claims for protection. this is unjust for the individual and unfair to other member states. in fact, looking at one or two member states within the european union, if you were an asylum-seeker really fearing for your life you would have to be almost suicidal to claim asylum in one or two of them, because your chances of having your claim recognised would be so low and, therefore, your risk of return would be very high. so we agree as a committee that we wish to see systematic measures taken against those member states which fail in this respect. a majority in the committee also wants to see the dublin transfers to such member states stopped until failures are rectified – although there is an amendment on this issue which we will vote on tomorrow. for the individuals concerned, we want to see a clear improvement in the quality and consistency of decision-making. we want to see cases fully examined on transfer and not closed due to technicalities (our paragraph 11). we want clear information provided to those coming under the dublin regulation; we also want to increase the possibility of family reunion and a wider definition of family for this purpose – although, again, i know there is an amendment on this – so that, for example, a minor can be transferred to live with their sole family member in the european union, even if that person is a cousin rather than a sibling. we also want clear procedures in relation to minors, who should only be transferred for the purpose of family reunion; these procedures should include their representation and accompaniment throughout, so that no child is lost in transit, as has unfortunately happened on a number of occasions. we are also asking for greater use of the humanitarian clause, for example, for those who are particularly vulnerable. we have concerns about the potential extension of eurodac for purposes other than identification. the council and the commission will be aware that parliament takes such issues very seriously. as regards the problems – and i know that other colleagues will talk more on this – one of the issues which also concerns us is that dublin ii can create pressure on certain member states which find themselves as primary points of entry to the european union for asylum-seekers. we are, therefore, asking the commission to bring forward proposals on so-called ‘burden sharing’ which are not just financial but actually provide a solution for the member states and the individuals affected.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am a little surprised by the president-in-office’s speech tonight, as indeed i am by its delivery from the podium d’honneur. the conflict in the caucasus is one for which both sides must take responsibility, as you have said, president-in-office. so why do the council’s conclusions not reflect this? president saakashvili cannot have believed that military intervention would evoke no response from russia. equally, russia’s reaction was disproportionate. you said, ‘les dégâts n’ont pas été considérables,’ and yet commissioner ferrero waldner has given us the figures and this house will be called on to agree to pay the bill! on one thing we do agree with you: we must condemn russia’s actions; they are indefensible, but we will not dissuade the russian bear by backing medvedev into a corner. dialogue and engagement will defuse tensions better than isolation. that is the lesson of the cold war, and the union – as with the helsinki process – has a central role to play. this conflict highlights the need for us to build a common foreign and security policy. and though member states hold diffuse views about russia, your presidency was quick to negotiate its six-point plan and for that credit is due. the plan may not be perfect, but it has brought an end to violence and it should be fully implemented, including russian withdrawal from the black sea port of poti. but what steps should the union take now? the council is right to agree a crisis-management and reconstruction fund and the rapid deployment of humanitarian assistance. now it must designate an eu representative who will make both sides listen. the union is right to send observers, but they must replace russian peacekeepers, which will mean commitment from those member states which are not already stretched militarily on other fronts. europe should convene a trans-caucasian peace conference, bringing together all sides in the search for the settlement of unresolved conflicts. but the union should start in one area of glaring inconsistency which requires little more than ministerial fiat to fix. end the anomaly whereby georgian citizens with russian passports have freer access to the european union, because this encourages them to adopt russian citizenship. georgians should have the same access to europe as russians, although this could be achieved by freezing the visa facilitation agreement with russia. in strengthening our neighbourhood policy, how can we ensure continued cooperation with russia while showing that a full ‘strategic partnership’ is no longer credible? what more can we do to cut europe’s dependence on russia’s energy supplies? you did well to strengthen the text of your conclusions in that regard. russia must of course face the consequences of its illegal actions, perhaps including a discussion on the future of the sochi winter olympics just 40 km from the border. can russia’s behaviour be considered in keeping with the olympic charter? no. solving these matters requires determination, foresight and patience. that is a challenge that this union must meet and i am afraid, president-in-office, one that we must meet before we offer you your vin d’honneur.
mr president, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that europe has been impotent in the face of russian aggression. whereas condemnation has greeted russia’s effective annexation of parts of the sovereign state of georgia, even the tone from within the eu has varied. the message of ambivalence will not be lost on moscow. it is hardly shaking in its boots over the divided mutterings of europe. without a robust response to russian aggression, i fear these matters will not end with georgia. is ukraine next, one has to wonder? and what will it take, with the eu now having made itself wittingly so dependent on russian energy, to eventually permit an effective response? if the last few weeks have demonstrated anything, they have been an object lesson in the unworkability of a common foreign policy in this eu. it has merely delivered the paralysis... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i think it is important to congratulate the french presidency, president sarkozy, minister kouchner, who are here, not only for having adopted a very firm stance towards russia in this crisis, but also for having been able to maintain the unity of the union, a unity which unfortunately did not exist in 2003. i would join those who say that this issue, serious as it is, is not only about georgia and the illegal occupation and invasion of that country. i would say to the commissioner that it is also about the eu's relations with russia. it goes to the heart of what used to be described as the common values we share. i personally find it very difficult to see what common values i share with a country that uses force, military aggression and a propaganda war to accuse the occupied country of being the invader and aggressor. it appears that the cooperation and partnership agreement is likely to be on hold for some time unless russia withdraws its troops. the question then arises of what we will do if russia were to refuse to withdraw its troops. we are told we must have dialogue, but what kind of dialogue can you have with a partner who does not respect the values you are trying to defend and support? it seems to me that, from a historical perspective, we want harmonious relations with russia, but not at the price simply of surrendering the values we hold dear. i agree with mr kelam and others that there are already consequences for russia, with massive disinvestment on its markets, because international investors now regard russia as a very uncertain place in which to invest. however, nord stream and south stream also have to be re-examined. we cannot simply go ahead with these as if a russian monopoly on energy supply was perfectly normal. the winter olympics in sochi also have to be re-examined; there cannot be an olympic truce. the russians will recognize the consequences of our taking decisive action and not simply being driven by their agenda. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i support democratic georgia’s right to seek security in the west and i disapprove of russia’s disproportionate aggression and continued occupation of the country. the eu must increase its aid to georgia for reconstruction, fast-track an eu free trade agreement and press ahead with visa facilitation. georgia should also be allowed to go on the path for nato, eventually for full membership. we must use this opportunity now, through the eu’s common external energy security policy, to break moscow’s stranglehold on europe’s oil and gas supplies. germany and italy are both building pipelines in joint ventures with gazprom. to balance this, the eu should also support the white stream pipeline project which will transport gas from the caspian sea to europe through georgia and ukraine – both governments supporting this project – thereby circumventing russia. targeting gazprom’s monopoly and russia’s use of the gas weapon as our long-term response will hit russia hard.
rapporteur. − mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner very much for what he has just said, and for his assurances. i think it is clear, from what has been said tonight from all parts of the house, that there is need for not just an efficient but a high-quality system which is one based on joint responsibility: as my colleague ms segelström has said, there must be joint responsibility or the system is meaningless. i think that the council too needs to hear that message very, very clearly, because they, the council, are the governments that are responsible for fulfilling their obligations. it is true that some member states, such as sweden, are very good at fulfilling their obligations. others are not. this means that the actions that the commission can take to support them in that – for example, the use of the unhcr, and the idea of the asylum support office – become very important, providing they are adequately resourced. that, too, is something which i think all of us involved in the budget system need to think about. however, on behalf of my colleague mr busuttil i would say that some of us still remain to be convinced that the pressures on certain member states are temporary rather than systemic, and therefore that the responses we make perhaps need to be more systemic – unless, of course, we foresee a rapid change in the world situation which would then have an effect on refugee flows. so again i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for their warm words. we will see what we can do to pass the message to council, and we very much look forward to the proposals coming from the commission later in the year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner has answered some of the questions put by my colleagues. however, this project is of great importance to all our institutions, and we are now coming to the politics of it, and the major issues concerning the democratic legitimacy of the creation of a cfr. there has been a lot of consultation, with many working groups and many stakeholder groups, from which we can learn a lot, but now it is time for decision-making, and we need a process that is open, inclusive and coherent. the commission is rightly conducting a selection process before presenting a white paper. however, that process needs to be as inclusive as possible, and we are obviously worried about the languages used, since if this were mainstream legislation it would be available in all the languages. can parliament have an assurance that at white paper stage it will still be possible to change the selection if it considers that appropriate? this is at the heart of the conundrum we face. will the white paper kick off a legislative process, or something analogous to it, or are we going to deal with a separate legislative process each and every time in the future that we look at anything to do with contract law? it comes down to the question of whether it will be binding or non-binding. the council seems to think it should be non-binding and voluntary. if that is the case, it is arguable whether we need a selection process at all. you can keep everything open and have the political debate at every moment in the future that a contract law question arises in a legislative proposal. on the other hand, if we are creating something binding now – which parliament is well known to prefer, in the form of an optional instrument – then we have to have some very serious inclusive political debates now about content and coverage, leading us on to the next set of questions about a legal base and the involvement of parliament as something more than a mere consultee.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, motor insurance has been a success story of this parliament and the long line of directives still actually represents some unfinished business – business which sadly involves an increasing number of our citizens as they exercise their rights of free movement across the union. mr mladenov’s report makes a very important contribution to the ongoing work. it is clear that claims need to be simplified as much as possible and the three-month period has to be respected. accident trauma must not be increased by legal trauma. we know that there are complicated issues of conflict of law that this parliament wanted to solve in our approach to the rome ii regulation. we have now been assisted by the court of justice in its oldenburg judgment, where the court has read together the fourth directive and the brussels regulation in the way we intended, allowing a victim to take direct legal action in their country of residence rather than going to the defendant’s court. this will put pressure on the need for out-of-court settlements. it is an important development. it may in the short term create some difficulties but, commissioner, you need to ensure that member states respect this judgment and this interpretation of eu law. the next step is to devise a system arising from the rome ii follow-up studies that ensures that victims are compensated fully in relation to their home country circumstances. the story is ongoing but the achievements, likewise, are very far from being inconsiderable.
mr president, first of all i want to join in thanking nickolay mladenov for a very important and serious piece of work. his first major report for the committee on the internal market will, i hope, be the first of many. it has been very helpful that he has come in and looked at this issue with fresh eyes, representing citizens who are enjoying new entitlements through their membership of the european union and who perhaps expect some of these issues to be dealt with better than in the past. i want to build on some of the points that a number of my colleagues have made, particularly diana wallis and andrew schwab. diana and i have been involved in this area since we came to parliament in 1999, and therefore understand its importance. i think it is fair to say that if parliament had not consistently raised these issues with the commission and said that the motor insurance regime, and particularly its cross-border aspects for mobile motorists, was deeply unsatisfactory, then i do not think that we would be where we are now, anywhere close to the fourth motor insurance directive, and maybe looking for a fifth. this shows how parliament really can reflect the interests of citizens in what are complex cross-border issues, but ones that do not come into play unless people run into serious problems. people have brought their problems to us, when they have had accidents in other countries and are unable to claim compensation for what are, in many cases, severe or even lifelong injuries. i was pleased that the commissioner, in line with her very strong commitment to consumers and the energy she has brought to this portfolio, wanted to seize this issue. however, i would particularly highlight what nikolay mladenov says in his report about the need to step up the level of cooperation between the insurance industry, member states and the commission, in order to get better deals under existing legislation. we are acting as a ginger group to put salt and pepper into the system, and i feel we are entitled to a bit more support from the european insurance industry.
rapporteur. − mr president, may i first take this opportunity to thank colleagues for their input, especially on one or two topics where we still have differences of opinion. i think we have more in common than divides us and that we can reach a satisfactory outcome by not straying too far from the core subject. the broad principles underlying this report on fiscal fraud are simple, and only fraudsters themselves would disagree. the tax losses due to fraud are difficult to assess. fraudsters and tax evaders take care to hide their activity from the tax authorities, but estimates put the level of fraud at eur 200-250 billion or 2-2.5% of the total gdp of the eu. my question is, do we put 2-2.5% of our collective effort into resolving it? since the answer to that question is clearly no, there can only be one conclusion. it needs more effort, more attention and in particular it needs more collective cooperative attention by member states. now vat fraud, particularly the missing trade or carousel fraud, may be the largest single cause of tax loss. it comes about simply because of the loophole in the arrangements for vat under which it is not levied on cross-border intra-community trade. so vat-free purchases can be sold on, the vat pocketed and then the trader vanishes. in complex carousels innocent traders can get enmeshed, and measures within member states to combat fraud, such as freezing rebates, can damage innocent businesses. this is a well-known problem in my own country, the united kingdom. so that is all the more reason to tackle the problem at its root. pragmatically vat will have to remain a consumption tax based on accruing to the fiscal authority of final destination. the report proposes that vat should be levied on intra-community supplies at the minimum rate, 15%, with the importing member state then levying its own domestic rate for subsequent stages. the 15% collected by the originating member state then needs to be handed over to the member state of final consumption by some method of clearing or settlement. this now is technically feasible; all the more so as we move inevitably to real-time recording of transactions. and it does not have to be centralised; it can be done in a decentralised or bilateral manner. regarding other ways of combating fraud and tax evasion, the exchange of information and cooperation are central to this and, dare i say it, a ‘cash now’ attitude of ‘what am i getting out of it?’ in some quarters does not lead to progress and is a short-sighted view. payback comes another time when you are on the requesting end. tax authorities need to know about assets in order to help track down hidden income which may be undeclared or originate itself from criminal activity. this is undermined if exchange of information between authorities is restricted. here we also need to act in the international dimension to be most effective. finally this brings me to revision of the savings tax directive. it is proper to revisit that directive, for example to close loopholes such as using alternative legal entities like foundations to escape its provisions. withholding tax is not ideal, but here we are divided on whether it can be done without undesirable consequences. these are the issues that we address in this report. i commend it to you and i look forward to the forthcoming debate with interest.
rapporteur. − mr president, tax fraud is the business of the eu because fraudsters make use of cross-border loopholes, and that is what we are trying to close. as the commissioner says, the savings tax issues are complex. i think it is possible for us to reach agreement through our voting that we do not pre-empt too much the more detailed discussions that we are going to have to hold on that topic when the commission comes out with their further proposals. likewise i think that we can also avoid reference to tax competition where we are divided but which is not core to this report. therefore i think we can achieve some harmony amongst ourselves. on all these fronts, colleagues and commissioner, i do not think that inaction or tentative action is an adequate response. 2.5% of gdp is at stake. that is a huge chunk of the tax base. as our colleague, mr sánchez presedo, points out, that is possibly 5% of tax. if any politician here or in any member state campaigned on the basis of putting up tax by 5% to pay for nothing, they would not get very far. so, and i say this to member states in particular, getting prickly about exchange of information, doing the minimum, being fearful, is just the same as taxing 5% for nothing, for that is what it costs the honest taxpayer. that is the message that i wish to send in this report and i believe it is the collective message that this parliament wishes to send in this report supporting the commissioner in his efforts and urging him to be bold.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this social package is a welcome step forward in the building of a european community which cares for its citizens. the people who cast votes against the european constitution and the lisbon treaty sent a clear message. the message is they will not give the european union new powers simply because we want them. our people want to know what kind of european union we are building. this package is extensive and controversial, and we must make sure that people know the benefits that it will bring to their lives. there is much to praise, as commissioner špidla says, in the european works council directive and, of course, in the proposal on patients’ rights in cross-border health care, for which my group has fought so hard. but i want today to concentrate on two specific measures in this package. first, the revision of the globalisation adjustment fund, which helps people who have lost their jobs to find new ones. at present, a thousand posts must be under threat before a company can apply. liberals and democrats welcome the proposal to lower that threshold and to simplify claims procedures, not because the european union should plan work for europe – that role is best filled by the internal market – nor in the belief that the eu should provide unemployment benefit – that is for member states. rather, we welcome this proposal because it is based on a sound liberal principle: that employment is the best source of welfare. with growth grinding to a halt and some member states already in recession, this policy will help prevent a spiral of sudden job losses that create welfare dependency. second, the anti-discrimination directive: my group has fought for this from the beginning of this commission’s term of office. the definition of discrimination will now cover the main spectrum of minorities – older people, gay people, disabled people, people of all faiths and none – and it will apply to clients and consumers, as well as employees. this, too, is a liberal measure which will proffer practical benefits, the kinds that come from knowing you can do your job and live your life free from the tyranny of prejudice. the draft directive should go further than it does. there are still loopholes, still opportunities for discrimination to rear its head. why, for example, commissioner, is it right to outlaw discrimination in the workplace, but to allow member states to use discriminatory schoolbooks in the classroom? nonetheless, europe is breaking down the barriers of discrimination, piece by piece. my group welcomes the commitment of the commission and the council to further that process, just as we insist on the full involvement of this house in framing the measures that complete it. in february mr barroso brought to us a major package of measures to fight climate change. today, the commission’s proposals on social policy demonstrate to its detractors that europe cares for community cohesion and that liberal economic policies need be no threat to progressive policies for a healthy environment and a society served by solidarity. mr schulz bemoans the predominance of centre-right governments in the european union, but we live in a democracy and people choose their governments. they are distinctly unconvinced by what the socialists are offering.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i very much welcome what the minister has said this morning, and hope that much of it will be echoed by the council, although the evidence so far does not give us great cause for confidence that it will. many of us still see question marks hanging over our protection of the social aspect in the face of market dominance. we are invited in this package to consider the impact of the recent european court of justice rulings. well, many of us have indeed considered them and consider them extremely worrying, when we are constantly being asked to justify measures on the basis of their not disturbing markets rather on the basis of their delivering a high quality of services and quality of workers rights etc. this is evidenced in the social package, where we are now looking at recognising the fact that we have poverty among people actually in work, and that we are still looking at a growing gap between rich and poor. while welcoming the sentiments on dealing with poverty expressed in the commission’s package, what we are really looking for is concrete action. we obviously welcome the horizontal directive on equalities. that is something we have championed throughout this parliament. it is important for all sorts of reasons, not least because it now actually offers the possibility of full participation in society. we also welcome many of the proposals on the roma. we welcome the commission’s commitment and want to see all member states responding positively, rather than entrenching prejudice and bigotry. training on equal opportunities is an important part of the skills agenda, especially for those delivering policy in the areas concerned. we welcome the existence, at least, of the proposals on the european works councils, although we have a number of criticisms about what is in them. as regards the mobility aspect of the package, we now also need to be looking at the impact of mobility in social terms: what happens to people, in particular the economically inactive who move and find themselves disbarred from member states’ health-care systems; what happens to people as they age, having moved to other member states, and what will their future bring? we also welcome the proposal on ‘new skills for new jobs’, and trust this really will link in with the climate change agenda, which also needs to look at new skills in old jobs, because most of the workforce have now passed the stage of formal education, making lifelong learning crucial. we must ask how we are going to deliver the skills we actually need in order to make our climate change targets practicable.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the lisbon treaty was dismissed by the legitimate irish referendum, so of course you need a big programme to divert attention. hence this new package. well, it is not really new. it is a rehash of earlier proposals. but it is big. it has eu legislation, social dialogue, cooperation, funding, partnership, dialogue, communication... and that is just one page. allow me to focus on funding. a prosperous economy will provide the funds, but you have lumbered yourselves with the euro, where the ecb’s interest rate is trying to cover such diverse economies. one size fits all, some say. actually it is one size that fits no one. in the uk the bank of england cannot get it right for all our regions. indeed, the weekend papers remarked that the economic north-south divide in the uk is now greater than ever before. the eu is protectionist. you are afraid of globalisation. do not fight it. do not combat it. join it. join the world market of an ever-growing population. encourage enterprise by slashing red tape. call a halt to the never-ending stream of directives and regulations which only hinder business. accept the rest of the world on even terms and the european economy will increase, bringing the greatest social package of all: more and better jobs. in conclusion, one notes that it falls to the french presidency to kick-start this venture, but will they? according to euractiv on 3 july, the commission and the french presidency have both declared social policy a priority in 2008. but if we read the deutsche welle of 2 july, french president nicolas sarkozy has made it clear that social policy will not be a top priority. issues like immigration, climate change and energy will take centre stage. so which statement do you believe? for my part i think the french will do as they always do and look after themselves. for that i congratulate them. i wish my government did the same.
mr president, let me start by thanking martin schulz for reminding everybody that the centre-right is the largest grouping in this parliament, that the centre-right has the largest number of commissioners and, indeed, that the centre-right has the largest number of governments in the eu member states. i would remind him in turn that there is a reason for that: the reason is that it is what the people have decided. the people have decided this because they have recognised the growing gulf between the rhetoric of the left and the reality, and they have rejected it. i would also remind him, as a good democrat, to remember that the people are, of course, always right. turning to the social package in general, on our side we welcome the thoughtful comments of the commissioner and his initiative regarding the revised social agenda, in particular the theme which reminds all of us that the eu is about people, about giving people more and better opportunities, and in particular equipping and empowering them to cope with the challenge of change. i would just like to pick up three points very briefly from the excellent contribution from my colleague, joseph daul. one is the important role here of the member states, of subsidiarity. many member states have different approaches, but all of them should take heart from the themes and the direction that he has outlined. the second point is about the importance of jobs. harlem désir talked very appropriately about the rights of workers. we respect the importance of the rights of workers, but my political group would also highlight the rights of non-workers – those people who currently do not have a job, who have been frozen out of the job market for whatever reason, and who want to have a job. they are increasingly important, especially in these difficult times of global credit crunch where unemployment is likely to get worse before it gets better. so we have to make certain that everything that we do helps the creation of jobs and helps more individuals into those jobs. the third point concerns small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which he also mentions. i noted in yesterday’s financial times that there was a reference to the agreement within the uk regarding temporary workers, and the smes said that they had not even been consulted about that. the point i would make is not a uk point, but there is a genuine problem – and i say this to the commissioner – of really involving smes in the consultation process, because smes are not only the largest number of employers but they also have the largest number of employees. we know from the problem of referenda – on the lisbon treaty, for example – that if you try to impose something from the top, it does not work: you have to connect with the people, and more people work for smes. finally, concerning european works councils – to which both the commissioner and the president-in-office have referred, and on which i am rapporteur – certainly my political group will recognise the reality that there has been welcome agreement from the social partners. i personally do not like the agreement very much, but i absolutely welcome the fact that there is an agreement and i believe we in parliament should try to build on that, as we will also try to build on the agreement regarding working time and temporary workers; we wish to move fast, because we want to deliver real social progress rather than just make pretty political speeches with an eye to the next election.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner špidla for the fact that we have a social package at all because, as i have said many times before, his task in the barroso commission cannot be easy. the package itself actually illustrates the tensions inside the barroso commission, between those, on the one hand, who want to stick to the neoliberal agenda come hell or high water, and those on the other who see an urgent need to make europe matter to its citizens. our people need to be assured that europe is part of the solution, and not part of the problem, when it comes to tackling the issues raised by globalisation, demographic change, climate change and other global challenges. if that is what we need to do, i am sad to say that this package simply is not up to the task. it is a grudging package of too little, too late. even the good elements are spoiled by the knowledge of just how grudgingly they were included. the horizontal directive to combat discrimination is a good example. it is in the package, but we all know just how bitterly president barroso opposed its inclusion, right up to the 11th hour. the european works council directive proposal is another example. the content is extremely weak when compared to the earlier communication from the commission to the social partners. i think that the neoliberal forces in the commission and their allies here need to wake up and recognise the reality we face. many millions of our citizens are living in fear, poverty and exclusion, and more and more have joined them during the barroso years. all in all, i see this as a belated attempt by president barroso to persuade the left here that he has a social conscience, and that he is worthy of support for a second term as commission president. well i am not fooled, and many of my colleagues are not fooled either. as i have said, it is much too little and much too late – much too late, in fact, to guarantee safe passage of the sparse worthwhile elements before the election next year. president barroso is insulting the intelligence not only of the left in this house but also of the millions of citizens out there who deserve better.
mr president, for years i have campaigned with others for comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation to outlaw discrimination in access to goods and services for disabled people and older people. i know that employment is covered on all grounds already, but for years we have been promised action and then nothing has happened. today we can say that we are on the brink of achieving that legislation, not just covering age and disability but sexual orientation and religion, as i called for in my report. i would like to thank the commission for bringing this forward and commissioner špidla in particular for his tenacity. we know that the proposed legislation is not perfect and we will want to see changes. it would also have been better if it had been subject to codecision. but, having said that, i am delighted to be able to stand here and say that we are at long last on our way to seeing all eu citizens treated as equals.
mr president, if you have a market at european level – which we do, with the single european market – you of course need common rules for that common market so that it works fairly and efficiently, not least in the social field. that is why we set employment standards and employment law and rules to protect workers’ rights – the working time directive, health and safety legislation, the parental leave directive, information and consultation of workers. yet the british conservative party – and i see that there is not a single member of that party present in the chamber to discuss this at the moment – wants the united kingdom to opt out completely from the social chapter of the treaty, should they ever come back to power in the united kingdom. do they think for one moment that the rest of the european union would accept that one single member state opts out of the obligations that we have jointly developed at european level to govern our market? do they really think that sort of unfair competition, by lowering health and safety standards and weakening the rights of workers, would be acceptable? of course it would not! the british conservatives are a recipe for disaster for britain and for europe.
thank you for informing us of that, mr stoyanov. we will pass that on to the relevant body within the institution.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
that concludes the vote.
mr president, i rise – as is becoming traditional on these occasions – to point out that the harmonisation of european policy in the fields of justice and home affairs has only the flimsiest of legal bases. much in the reports on which we have just voted – the kaufmann, frança, brejc, weber and lambert reports – is there to give force to aspects of policy, to initiatives and, in the case of eurojust, to an entire institution, that have no proper legal mandate. it is true that such a mandate would have been provided by the european constitution or lisbon treaty, but it is equally the case – as it seems periodically necessary to remind this chamber – that the constitution was rejected three times: by 55% of french voters, by 62% of dutch voters and by 54% of irish voters. the ability to have a monopoly on penal coercion via a criminal justice system is perhaps the supreme defining attribute of statehood. we can define a state as a territory with agreed rules enforced by a common authority. if the european union wishes to give itself that supreme attribute of statehood, it should have the decency to ask its peoples’ permission first in referendums. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, may i begin by saying what a great pleasure it is to see you in the chair here in brussels for a full plenary session. one small step for mr mcmillan-scott; one giant leap, perhaps, for the european parliament. who knows? do not hold your breath. i rise in relation to the lambert report – and also in relation to the bowles report, if you are calling me on that. the lambert report i find difficult to support. there are references in it to the idea of distributing illegal immigrants among the vast majority of eu countries, which i think is completely impractical. more important from the united kingdom’s point of view is the fact that, uniquely or semi-uniquely (because cyprus is in the same position) we are an island. therefore i think it is important for the united kingdom to retain control of its own borders, controlled by the united kingdom authorities not by the european union which has large and leaky borders. therefore i think the lambert report is unacceptable on that basis. the bowles report is unacceptable because, although it has some good intentions, it is effectively blaming tax havens for the high taxation many of us have to endure. but the reason why we endure high taxation – certainly in the united kingdom – is because we have a labour government bent and determined to increase the tax take and burden the british people and the british taxpayer with it. the essence of high taxation is a national problem and should remain so, and governments nationally should take responsibility for it. it should not be a responsibility of the european union.
in writing. − i was very happy to vote in favour of this report, as i believe the youth in action programme is an excellent initiative. schemes such as these will be vital in encouraging engagement between young people and europe. this engagement is sorely needed. time and again i hear from my constituents that the european union does nothing for them. without funding for civil society programmes, those who believe in the importance of the european project will have a hard time confronting criticism of democratic deficits and unresponsive institutions. and this negativity is particularly strong among the young. whenever i visit schools in my constituency i am struck by their cynicism about the eu's role. a report such as this therefore represents a timely response to a pressing – and growing – problem. but the report has faced opposition from scaremongers who claim it will strengthen the commission. what is clear is that all information provided will need to be objective if it is to be effective. yet i would ask members to question how strengthening civil society and the role of the young citizen could possibly give the commission more power.
in writing. − i welcome katerina batzeli’s report on the youth in action programme. grants provided by the programme are a key element in allowing young europeans to fully benefit from the opportunities the eu offers. the report aims to reduce bureaucracy and simplify the decision making involved in the selection of grants. i therefore support its recommendations.
in writing. − katerina batzeli’s report on the culture programme for 2007-2013 streamlines the process by which financial support through the programme is decided. making that process more efficient will benefit programmes such as the european capitals of culture. i therefore voted in support of the report.
in writing. − i welcome the proposals to cut bureaucracy in the decision-making process for the europe for citizens programme. more efficient selection of grants for town-twinning and support for civil society will improve the eu’s capacity to encourage its citizens to engage with europe. with this in mind, i voted in support of katerina batzeli’s report on the programme ‘europe for citizens’ 2007-2013 to promote active citizenship.
in writing. − the lifelong learning programme helps finance education schemes like erasmus. it is through such schemes that people across europe not only experience europe’s cultural richness, but also the wealth of learning opportunities the eu offers. i therefore voted in favour of katerina batzeli’s report on an ‘action programme in the field of lifelong learning’.
in writing. − i shall be voting in favour of helmut markov’s report. i believe it is absolutely essential for stability and security in europe that we do all we can to help both serbia and montenegro recover from the economic and social upheaval that took place with the break-up of yugoslavia and the subsequent disastrous wars. i would hope that, in particular, infrastructure and transportation would feature prominently. if we are to be realistic in our aspirations for both countries, then this agreement is essential and should be strongly supported. it is my hope that at some future date both serbia and montenegro can join the european union. this agreement is the first step on the road to that aspiration.
in writing. − i back this report from the committee on agriculture and rural development on organic production and labelling on organic products. i am not entirely convinced that it is always better to absolutely maximise organic production and consumption. i believe science has improved food productivity and food safety in some important areas. my own consumption reflects this belief. nevertheless, those who take a more fundamentalist view are entitled to be reassured that ‘organic’ really is organic, and not just a label used to extract a price premium from gullible and ill-informed consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the parish report which accepts the commission’s proposal to delay the introduction of the use of a compulsory eu organic label. it should be noted, however, that voluntary use of such a label is not prohibited and any such moves which are of benefit to consumers should be encouraged.
in writing. − i supported the morillon report relating to the southern indian ocean fisheries agreement. i consider that fishing nations should control their own fisheries whilst cooperating internationally through regional fisheries organisations. the eu has a coastal interest in the indian ocean and accordingly must fulfil obligations under the un convention on the law of the sea. i look forward, however, to the day when france, and other eu nations, have direct control of their own fishing interests.
in writing. − i will be supporting this report on mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters. i take the view that those convicted of crimes should not be able to hide within the interstices of the european union. anyone convicted within one member state should be considered guilty across the union. if we doubt the independence and integrity of courts in any state of the union, that state should have its membership suspended. otherwise, just as we make no distinction between criminals in manchester or london, neither should we if it is madrid or lisbon.
in writing. − the gklavakis report rightly recognises the importance of fishing to coastal communities and the retention of cultural traditions. all too often, this very human aspect of the fishing industry seems to have been overlooked in the implementation of the cfp. the report correctly notes the need for bodies at eu, national and regional levels to cooperate in matters of coastal management, and i consider that, within this context, coastal areas and nations must take the lead role, with the eu acting as a facilitator.
in writing. − i voted in favour of my colleague, ms lambert’s, report on the evaluation of the dublin system. in particular, i would like to highlight the sections which emphasise that in decisions relating to children, the best interests of the child must be paramount at all times. in my own country, scotland, we have the disgraceful situation at the dungavel detention centre, where children of asylum seekers are effectively imprisoned. such practices can never be described as being in the best interests of the child, and i support the scottish government’s efforts to close that institution and return responsibility for immigration to scottish control.
in writing. − the mladenov report gives an appropriate degree of prominence to consumer organisations in the evaluation of motor insurance. consumer bodies do indeed have an important role to play in this area, alongside the eu’s institutions, member states and the insurance industry itself.
in writing. − i would like to thank mr mladenov, our committee rapporteur. this report on aspects of motor vehicle insurance is a good example of how europe is delivering practical and pragmatic benefits of eu membership for its citizens. with 1.2 million road accidents in europe every year, regrettably some citizens will be victims of a car accident, as a driver, passenger or pedestrian. yet many people are not aware that eu law exists to help resolve insurance claims without having to deal with a foreign insurance company in a foreign language. this eu law exists to enable citizens to go home and get the claim settled quickly and easily in their own language. the 4th motor insurance directive also ensures assistance for accident victims by setting up information centres in each member state. as the law does not currently provide for compulsory cover for legal costs, citizens should consider the option of taking out legal protection insurance. of course, as the parliament's rapporteur on mediation, i hope parties will use alternative dispute resolution to find a settlement to conflicts while avoiding the costs and delays of court proceedings. it is with concrete, practical measures like this law that we can demonstrate europe's value to our citizens.
in writing. − the uk conservative delegation regrets that it is unable to support the report by mrs bowles. we recognise that tax fraud is a serious problem and that it needs to be tackled with great urgency, and in particular that a solution needs to be found to the so called "carousel" fraud in respect of vat. nevertheless, the failure of the report to positively support tax competition and sovereignty; its unrealistic approach towards tax havens; and its lack of recognition of the direct link between high taxation and high levels of tax avoidance and evasion lead us to request that the european union think very seriously before proposing tax measures that may only serve to create capital flight, discourage inward investment or indeed encourage even more fiscal fraud.
rapporteur. − madam president, it is a privilege for me to be back here as rapporteur for the second time, because i was rapporteur for this directive in 2001. it has also been a privilege to work with my colleagues, mrs trautmann and mrs del castillo, because this has been a team effort. this is a package. as the commissioner said, it has been a major achievement. that is why we want to reform and improve consumers’ rights, so that they are well informed and able to take advantage of the offers that are available and able to encourage innovation. we need a structure that will work, of course, and i would remind the commissioner that it was this parliament that argued for the commission’s role under article 7. we supported that role, against the council at the time. nobody is more aware than this parliament of the importance of getting the balance right, but, in looking at the team position, i would almost say that it is time for the regulators not just to accept responsibility, at a national level, for implementing the regulation consistently, but also to take on a share of that community policymaking work. in my view, whatever we end up with will only work if they have a stake in that body – i will leave you to decide what i mean by that! i want to pay tribute to all members of the team that worked with me on improving this directive. i thank both the minister and the commissioner for the kind remarks they have made about the improvements we have put forward. it is a combination of work on users’ rights and on the e-privacy directive. in this parliament, responsibility for data protection and the residual expertise lies with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. in my view, it was a mistake to package the two together, but i think we have managed it successfully. my colleague alexander alvaro will respond on those aspects, and the commissioner should thank him for actually putting in the details of how data-breach notification works, because it was entirely unacceptable for the commission to send us a proposal in which all the implementing details were delegated to a committee. those are big political decisions. i agree with you that we still have a bit of work to do, but you should certainly thank him in the first place for doing that job for you. as far as my side is concerned, i am disappointed that the whole of the universal service aspect is coming later. we are doing this in two bites. we are awaiting your report, which will come shortly. i have made the most of the users’ rights aspects, but we still have work to do. by that i mean that we want those empowered, well-informed consumers to make their choices on the basis of maximum clear information on price, on what is in the service, on whether there are any restrictions, and on whether the cost of a handset is included if they take a longer contract. we want them to be able to shop easily and to be able to transfer their number quickly, and i am glad you support us on that point. we also want them to be able to study the length of the contract and for the length of contract not to be used as a restriction when they try to move. we also want to look at consumers’ entitlements. they are entitled to data security. they are entitled to secure and available networks. they are entitled to networks where operators are not blocking anti-competitively a particular content or service. we agree with your idea of having a new quality of service obligation, and think we have improved on that. this is a very important entitlement. consumers are entitled to good quality universal emergency services and to caller location services. disabled users in particular are entitled to those services as well, and to better services. however, i feel that consumers are also entitled to be informed about some of the problems they might encounter, be this potential for infringing copyright, potential for unauthorised use or potential, for example, for buying things that could damage their health, like counterfeit medicines. why should we not demand that electronic service providers carry public service messages in the same way that television channels do at the moment? that is what we are talking about, colleagues. we are not talking about this as a mechanism for enforcing copyright, which is the responsibility of national governments, but we are talking about making life easier and better for consumers. we have a bit of work to do, commissioner, but i am pleased to say that i have agreement on a large packet of compromises and i am confident that they will be adopted. i look forward to working with the french presidency to meet the ambitious timetable, because europe needs us to meet that timetable.
madam president, i want to take the opportunity as chair of the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) to thank mr harbour and the shadows for producing what i hope this parliament will consider a balanced and workable proposal on universal services. i want to draw the attention of this house to one provision – an amendment i made and backed by the committee – to make the introduction of the 116000 missing child hotline a legal obligation on all member states. the commissioner will be aware that a recent report has shown that, a full 18 months after its introduction in 2007, only seven member states have assigned the missing child hotline. the voluntary approach is clearly not working. across europe every year approximately 130 000 children go missing. these statistics show that this is an area where europe can help, must act and must identify, track down and recover missing children. therefore i urge the european commission and the member states to support this provision, to speed up the implementation of the missing child hotline and give a major boost to europe’s efforts for an eu-wide missing children amber alert system.
rapporteur. − madam president, i find myself in the uncharacteristic position of having the last word in this major debate so i will perhaps make a few broad-ranging remarks at the end. but first of all i would like, regarding my own report, to thank the many colleagues who have contributed and have reinforced the determination of our committee to make and carry forward those improvements. i would like to assure my colleagues that over the next couple of weeks we will be working to make those further improvements, particularly around the areas of data protection, on which we had a very successful meeting this morning: i think we can reach an agreement there. on the question of data-breach notification, it is perhaps not surprising that we still have work to do because that was an entirely fresh piece of work that we did. i cordially invite the commission, who have already been involved, to help us complete the drafting because, after all, it was not in their original proposal. the other point i want to make is addressed to mrs harms, as she is the only representative of the green party here. i was absolutely astounded to hear from her colleague, david hammerstein mintz – who i get on very well with – that he considers my report to be dangerous to net neutrality. we have spent a lot of time crafting a new proposal to actually allow regulators to intervene if they see net neutrality being trespassed upon. yet mr hammerstein mintz comes to this chamber, without talking to me beforehand and without submitting any alternative, and tells me my report is dangerous. all i would say to mrs harms is that if the green group continue with this sort of scaremongering and demonising of our report, it will be dangerous for consumers because it will endanger everything else. i cordially invite them to come round our table and to say why our report is dangerous. let us see if we can satisfy their concerns. many of you may well even be receiving daily e-mails. i had one telling me that this report is a danger to net neutrality. all i can say to you is that our intention is entirely the opposite. in conclusion, we now all have a huge responsibility to help the french presidency reach agreement. i want to emphasise that point. there is a lot of uncertainty out in the real world, among the people who are poised to make the big investments – the next-generation networks – who want this package settled as soon as possible. we can help do that by working together as we have done successfully. it is a really big responsibility. i pledge from my side – and i know my colleagues will come with me on this – that we will spare no effort in working with the french presidency. i want to pay particular tribute to mr chatel and mr besson for their deep engagement to this whole process and their real knowledge of the issues. together i am sure we can get this package through in the quickest possible time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 142)
i scríbhinn. – sa domhan ardchónasctha, domhandaithe sa lá atá inniu ann ba chóir go mbeadh an príobháideachas pearsanta agus cosaint sonraí mar thosaíocht againn uile. maidir leis an bpríobháideachas níor chóir dúinn é a chomhghéilleadh mar a tharla anseo i dtuarascáil harbour. ní hé gnó comhlachta náisiúnta nó eorpaigh é monatóireacht ionsáite a dhéanamh ar an úsáid a bhaineann daoine as an idirlíon. ní mór do pharlaimint na heorpa gníomhú chun na heilimintí is aischéimnithí a thug sí isteach sa treoir seo a chealú. mar atá faoi láthair, d'fhéadfadh, leis an treoir seo, méadú teacht ar an bhaint atá ag gnóthaí agus comhlachtaí stáit leis an úsáid phríobháideach a bhaineann daoine aonair as líonraí cumarsáide. ní féidir cosaint ar chearta maoine intleachtúla a úsáid mar leithscéal, rud a cheadódh do chomhlachtaí neamhfhreagracha teacht ar shonraí pearsanta agus ar shonraí príobháideacha.
the next item is question time (b6-0457/08). the following questions are addressed to the council.
president of the council. - mr medina ortega is absolutely right. i think that in the context of the reflection we must have on the common agricultural policy, in the context of the meetings we will have on development policy and trade and in the summits we will hold in this connection, particularly with the developing countries, we must put the question of food supply and food security - these are two separate things, they must be combined, but they are two elements which can be separate - at the heart of the council's concerns. in any case, it is one of the ambitions of the french presidency, and especially of the european council in october, to raise these questions and to reflect together on them.
rather than the bizarre notion, proffered in the question, of looking at food security under the common foreign and security policy, would it not be better to return to food security as an original prime objective of the cap, as president sarkozy promised in his notable speech at the paris agricultural show in february? he set food security, and the eu contributing more to food production in the world, as his top objectives in revamping the cap. what progress can the french minister report towards the attainment of those objectives?
question no 2 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0529/08) subject: european youth pact all areas of policy, in particular facilities for education and lifelong learning, employment and mobility, social integration, health and the possibility of independence and support for initiatives concerning entrepreneurship and voluntary work, concern young people in the european union. will the council, therefore, say how it intends to implement the european youth pact (7619/05) and to invest in policies which have an impact on young people?
question no 3 by robert evans (h-0532/08) subject: eu overseas territorial anomalies does the presidency deem it anomalous to have a country in south america considered to be a part of the european union when at the same time we are stalling entry negotiations with croatia, turkey and other european states, who clearly have a stronger geographical claim? in the current post-irish referendum climate, how does council envisage processing applications such as these? has this ever been discussed in council?
i will give a bit of clarification and put my question more broadly. the president-in-office has answered some of the points that i raised and i thank him for that. he is right. my position is that i think it is an anomaly that we allow countries like french guiana to be a full part of the european union with all the benefits and advantages entailed – not just french territories, but martinique and guadeloupe come to mind. and yet within europe – and the president-in-office has referred to the negotiation process that is taking place with croatia and perhaps with turkey – we put up resistance; there are countries in the european union which are not happy about that. but then there are other anomalies closer at hand – the channel islands, jersey and guernsey, which are not in the european union, exempt from legislation. they are tax havens where rich people are allowed to avoid paying everything that everyone else does. is this position, or are these anomalies, discussed in council? can the president-in-office defend the situation where french guiana is part of the european union, and does he think this will continue, not just in the short term but in the long term? could he look into his crystal ball and give me a bit of insight into the way the european union is going in a global sense?
question no 4 by avril doyle (h-0534/08) subject: border adjustment measures (bams) on less carbon-efficient imports could the council please outline its views on border adjustment measures (bams) on less carbon-efficient imports from third countries in the post-2012 trading period of the eu ets?
i should like to welcome the minister to this part-session here in brussels, rather than in strasbourg, and say how much i look forward to seeing the french presidency at future part-sessions here in brussels, rather than in strasbourg. as a follow-up to that, would he accept that one of the best ways to tackle global poverty is to encourage entrepreneurs in poor countries to start businesses and to create wealth through trade? given his apparent interest in border adjustment measures – which are really import taxes – how does he respond to the criticism that border adjustment measures are anti-development measures and really a european imperialist protectionist measure to keep out exports from developing countries and to keep poor people in poverty?
question no 5 by colm burke (h-0536/08) subject: high-level forum on aid effectiveness in accra (ghana) in september the high-level forum on aid effectiveness in accra, which is due to take place this september, presents a real opportunity for donors and partner governments to make further commitments that can be timetabled and monitored to make aid work better for the poor. how can the council and member states commit more ambitiously to the targets of the paris declaration of 2005? can the council and member states guarantee that not only will governments attempt to improve the efficiency of aid delivery through this declaration, but that the effectiveness of aid – in terms of how it brings about real improvements in the lives of the poor – will also be addressed? can the council give an updated response to parliament’s resolution (p6_ta(2008)0237) on the follow-up to the paris declaration of 2005 on aid effectiveness? now that we are at the halfway mark, how does the council propose to make governments accountable for meeting their mdg commitments, given the fact that there has been a drop in eu aid figures from 0.41% of gni in 2006 to 0.38% in 2007, a decrease of about 1.5 billion euros?
question no 6 by jim higgins (h-0538/08) subject: eu mission in chad could the council give an update on the deployment of the eufor mission to chad? have any unforeseen problems arisen and, if so, what have been the main lessons learnt from this experience?
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex).
mr president, there is enormous discrimination against women in the united kingdom, sadly. i know my own committee – the committee on women’s rights and gender equality – have their heart in the right place. however, most of the discrimination comes because the employment laws are so onerous for small businesses recruiting young women that they simply discriminate in a covert way. i think it is the classic law of unintended consequence. you make a law here, you make a law there, and what actually happens is that nothing happens, which actually reinforces the position. i do not mean to sound ungallant, but when i look round my committee – the committee on women’s rights and gender equality – i see that their mindset is deeply locked in the 1970s – they have not moved on. i am afraid that life is not like that any more, and when i hear people talk about the emancipation of women, i am sorry, but as an englishman, that happened a very long time ago. i do not know what problems other countries have, but please do not lay all this on the united kingdom, where we do not have the problem, because, although, again, i say your heart is in the right place (the law of unintended consequences), you are making a real bollocks of it.
mr president, it may be a useful coincidence that i am speaking after godfrey bloom, who seems to inhabit somewhere deep within the 19th century. he is, indeed, the man famous for saying, not so very long ago, that women should clean behind the fridge and that that was one of their major roles in life. if it is me who has not moved on, then i am proud, because i do not wish to be associated in any way, particularly as an englishwoman, with comments such as those. what i do want to say is that this excellent report has raised very many important issues, and i thank the rapporteur for that. i also thank the commissioner for the comments he made. one particular point i wish to pick up on is the whole question of trafficking. as a representative from london – and, indeed, a woman representative from london – i have had a particular interest in this subject, because london is one of the places very much affected by trafficking in women. member states are currently being asked to sign the council of europe convention on action against trafficking. although some of the member states have signed this, there are others – 15, in fact – that have not yet signed, and indeed there are two that do not seem prepared to do so. i would therefore ask that all eu member states ratify this convention against trafficking, and that everyone here, including all the members of the committee on women’s rights, take it upon themselves to go back to their governments and push them to do even more work than they may already be doing about the whole vile and evil trade of trafficking in women.
author. − mr president, i should like very much to welcome commissioner vassiliou here this evening to listen to our oral question, especially at this late hour. when we deal with cloning, it is not only a case of food safety, but also we in europe believe that, under the common agricultural policy, we are producing food to a very high standard and also to a very high welfare standard. the problems with cloning concern not only the welfare of animals but also consumer confidence in food that may come from cloned animals. you only have to look across the atlantic ocean to the united states of america to see how to stop cloned animals from entering the food chain. for instance, if a cloned bull is worth eur 1 000 at the end of its life to go into the food chain, then the people who have bred that bull have to put up a bond, which may be worth eur 3 000, and when they destroy that animal and make sure that it does not go into the food chain, they get the bond back. it is quite a simple way of keeping cloned animals out of the food chain. i think we have to take this matter very seriously and i would urge the commissioner to look at this again. i will go through some of the problems with cloning, especially from a welfare point of view. cloning entails serious health and welfare problems for clones and their surrogate dams; animal health problems come from invasive techniques required to produce a clone; there is the suffering of surrogate dams which carry cloned foetuses, and high levels of ill health and mortality in early life for cloned animals. the oie scientific and technical review identified that only 6% of cloned embryos resulted in healthy, long-term surviving clones. the efsa report also points out an increased proportion of pregnancy failure and disorders in surrogate dams of cloned embryos. these disorders and the large size of clones make caesareans more frequent in cattle carrying clones than in conventional pregnancy. mortality and morbidity is higher in clones than in sexually-produced animals; the welfare of both surrogate dam and clone can be affected. on the ethics side, the european group on ethics has doubts as to whether cloning animals for food supply is ethically justified. it also does not see convincing arguments to justify the production of food from clones and their offspring. if you look into the figures of what has happened when animals are cloned, cloned calves are often 25% heavier than normal, leading to a painful birth; 25% of cows pregnant with clones at day 120 of gestation develop hydroallantois. reports in 2003 show only 13% of embryos planted in surrogate dams result in calves delivered at full term; only 5% of all cloned embryos transferred into recipient cows have survived. efsa’s opinion cites a study where out of 2 170 cattle receiving embryos only 106 live births occurred – 4.9% – and only 82 survived more than two days. we also have to consider the problems that occur not only on the animal welfare side but also in the gene pool of animals – and this is a farming aspect also. take the holstein friesian – it is thought that there are only about 50 strains of the holstein friesian. if we start cloning bulls and the heifer from a cloned bull is then put back on to the offspring, so the same father is used, then we will create an even tighter gene pool. there are then problems with disease and with genetics being carried over to those offspring. therefore, we need to make sure there is hybrid vigour. the industry itself cannot explain why a cloned animal has the cell of the parent – an older cell. therefore, again, there is the risk of producing an animal that is not as strong and as healthy. therefore, i call on the commission to submit proposals prohibiting the cloning of animals for the food supply and the placing of cloned animals on the market in meat and dairy products.
mr president, it is right and natural to want to improve stock quality by breeding from our best animals. artificial insemination and embryo transfer provide for that. cloning, however, is quite different: it is, as the united kingdom food standards agency has observed, a quantum leap way beyond giving mother nature a helping hand. quite apart from other ethical issues and the danger of copycat science in the human field, animal welfare is a real concern. the premature ageing and health deficiencies seen in high-profile cloning cases that have made the headlines, such as that of dolly the sheep, are good reminders of those welfare issues. devoting more money to tackling animal disease would serve us better than experimenting with nature. from a consumer perspective, there is also a food quality issue, since cloned herds would all share the same vulnerability to the same strains of disease, whereas genetic diversity is one of our best protections against rampant outbreaks of disease. in fact, whichever way i look at this subject, i can find nothing to convince me that animal cloning is right, necessary or in the public interest.
mr president, i am going to be the different voice in this argument, because, through the ages, man has manipulated the breeding of animals and enhanced their productivity to meet his needs. there is a clear continuum: natural service to artificial insemination, to embryo transfer, to embryo splitting, in vitro fertilisation, blastomere nuclear transfer, foetal nuclear transfer and now somatic cell nuclear transfer. every new development has been seen as too far, and each time the technique has been improved and perfected, the benefits have come through and the anticipated problems have faded away. now the farmers’ unions are beginning to foresee benefits to animal health and welfare through the use of cloning. the food and safety agency says: ‘there is no indication that differences exist in terms of food safety between food products from healthy cattle and pig clones and their progeny, compared with those from healthy, conventionally-bred animals.’ nor does it see any environmental risks – and there are benefits: safeguarding high-value animals and their genetics, conserving and even reintroducing endangered breeds, eliminating dangerous pathogens and their transfer internationally, improving productivity and competitivity, and encouraging research and development in europe rather than elsewhere. so why do we europeans repeatedly fall into the knee-jerk trap of distrusting any new development and of rushing to ban new things? look at what happened with gmos. so let us discuss and debate, and base our arguments on science and facts. i urge the commission to follow developments carefully, encourage research, clarify the science, defend the facts; but do not ban. let us drop this inaccurate, illogical and misguided resolution.
mr president, let me first of all welcome the opportunity of holding this debate. i think it has been very timely. this is a subject that gives great concern. what i do not like is that we in europe do not have sufficient control to ensure that cloned animals do not enter or reach the food chain. i understand the need to allow animal breeding and development, and i understand fully what mr purvis is saying – and i have no wish to bring to an end the ability of science to develop in any way, shape, size or form – but i strongly believe that we must set in place clear criteria and controls. i share mr parish’s concern about the welfare of the animals. i do have great concerns about animal welfare, because a very high percentage of cloned animals suffer at a very early age. let me repeat: i do not oppose, or wish to stand in the way of, futuristic developments. in the past we have made many mistakes. let us not do so on this delicate subject. let us protect the food chain from cloned animals. i am opposed to them in the food chain.
the first item is the joint debate on– the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0355 - c6-0197/2007 - 2007/0121(cod)) (a6-0140/2008),– the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council directives 76/768/eec, 88/378/eec, 1999/13/ec and directives 2000/53/ec, 2002/96/ec and 2004/42/ec in order to adapt them to regulation (ec) … on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0611 - c6-0347/2007 - 2007/0212(cod)) (a6-0142/2008), and – the report by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 648/2004 in order to adapt it to regulation (ec) no … on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, and amending directive 67/548/eec and regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 (com(2007)0613 - c6-0349/2007 - 2007/0213(cod)) (a6-0141/2008).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, with the reach regulation now beginning to take its terrible toll on productive industry, especially on smaller businesses, and the numbers of animal experiments rising sharply, here in the form of a6-0140/2008 come some more instructions from the world-government zealots of unesco on how to classify, label and package the results of its previous idea. being equally thirsty for anti-democratic global domination, the commercial and political elite which constitutes the european union hastens to implement these instructions, just as they did to implement reach. they made a barrage of assurances of their good intentions which may for the moment protect or delude their so-called stakeholders, but which will not satisfy the great number of the unemployed which these measures are already beginning to produce. a crumb of recognition for public opinion falls from the master’s table in the form of amendments 10, 12, 39 and 42, to place reducing animal experimentation in certain circumstances before adherence to the letter of the legislation. i understand that this is due to pressure from the influential environmental groups upon which the eu depends for so much of its support, and placing the welfare of non-human primates above that of humans, as expressed in amendment 40, is surely going too far to placate them, but finding anything deserving of a positive vote in the oppressive and obsessive process of eu legislation is a rarity worthy of note. for the rest, there is no reason why sensible standards of safety should not be adopted voluntarily by democratic nation states with independent judiciaries and free public access to judicial systems. supranational edicts may appear to be an easy option, but the centralised unaccountable power they contribute, directive by unmandated directive, is not just their sting in the tail but their principal awful effect. the claim put forward in recital 7 to the effect that this legislation will provide a competitive advantage to industry and, as amendment 1 adds, in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, is simply ludicrous. as always, the eu’s big business overlords will benefit from the failure of their smaller competitors. they will become even larger fish in a smaller pond or flee abroad, and far from kowtowing to the eu and its ridiculous restrictions, traders overseas will trade much more profitably with each other than they will with us. the boom is over. the recession has begun and under the burden of eu regulation such as a6-0140/2008, our economies are sinking like stones. each traveller on this gravy train can tell his electorate whatever he likes in their own language without fear that they will overhear what his colleagues in other states are telling their electors. there is no general eu electorate and there cannot be one until perhaps in a century or two everyone speaks one language, and until that time comes eu democracy will be a joke, and a dark and dangerous joke at that. but your privileges are enormous. why should you care about this or the crazy counterproductive laws you continually rubber stamp? and why should i care, because i am retiring at the end of this month? when i read amendment 28 it made me realise why i have had enough of all this nonsense. it says: ‘preparation means a mixture or solution composed of two or more substances. mixture and preparation are synonyms’. well, however would we survive without this supernanny state explaining such things to us, and how on earth have i survived to the ripe old age of 68 when i spent my infant years chewing the leaded paint off the wooden frame of my cot? i suppose it gave my antibodies something to do in the days when we actually had antibodies. each leaden edict brings the collapse of the eu closer. i rejoice in that, but i deplore the damage which you are inflicting on 27 former democracies, year by disastrous year.
madam president, it makes clear sense to me that, since chemicals are manufactured and traded globally, the description of hazards on their packaging should not differ between countries, as that is both prejudicial to consumers and a disadvantage to those who accurately describe the hazard. however, i note that at present the ‘globally-harmonised’ system is not very global. it is more sporadic than global. i wonder whether other countries will follow the eu’s example in embracing this un system, and what the impact might be for businesses in europe if they do not. in implementing these measures we need to strike a balance. firstly, it is crucial for there to be no over-classification of products, which would confuse consumers and health-care providers. secondly, we need to implement these international obligations without placing unnecessary burdens on our businesses. a number of companies have raised concerns over the cost of implementation. there will be high it and training outlays and repackaging costs, which we must not underestimate, especially in the case of small business. i would echo the concern that smes could fall victim, especially if they trade overseas, in which case these costs may well be more than they can bear.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i want to warmly thank anja weisgerber as the rapporteur on behalf of the committee and, of course, as a member of my own group who, once again, i think, has shown her mastery of complex, technical dossiers, having also worked very effectively on a number of the emission dossiers as rapporteur for the opinion. but i am delighted now that she has her own report, and i congratulate her on the very thorough way that she has approached this important task. i know how much work is involved, having been the rapporteur myself on the overall type approval directive. i also want to thank günther verheugen and his team in the commission for moving very quickly and in a timely way to give us this important proposal, which will effectively incorporate into the master type approval directive the specific requirements for hydrogen vehicles. i think, by the way, that shows the important of finally having now achieved this common type approval framework for motor vehicles, that we have the flexibility to be able to respond and include these new developments in it. in that connection, i just want to emphasise what a number of colleagues have said already, but particularly from my perspective, having worked with the commission as a member of this parliament on the cars 21 group, which was formed to put in place a competitive automotive regulatory strategy for the 21st century – that is what cars 21 meant – and this is clearly a 21st-century proposal. but the important thing is that it gives the manufacturing industry – but not just the big manufacturers, the many companies who are involved in developing the systems and components that will help move forward the hydrogen-powered vehicles – it will give them a clear legislative framework within which to work now. they do not have to wait for it. that is a huge benefit, and it means that we will have one framework for europe – one framework – and that means that, if you then comply with those requirements, you can sell your vehicle everywhere else. but, actually, this is not enough, and i am pleased that anja has included in her report a specific request to the commission to say, ‘we want to make hydrogen vehicle safety requirements global requirements. across the world people are working on hydrogen vehicle standards. it is absolutely the right time to put that into the global vehicle working party, because we should start as we mean to go on and have that set of global standards for hydrogen vehicles. at the same time, we want europe to be a leader in developing those technologies, and we can achieve both with the foundation of this proposal.
madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs weisgerber, and the shadows for producing this report and negotiating a very good agreement with the council and the commission, while preserving parliament’s priorities. at a time when petrol prices in europe have doubled and citizens in europe and people around the world are ever more concerned about the effects of climate change, it is clear that we need new hope for future fuels. this european-wide law on hydrogen-powered cars can pave the way for full-scale production of these cars and provide european drivers with real alternatives in the not too distant future. sales of alternative-fuel vehicles, for example, in the united kingdom alone have grown from just a few hundred in the year 2000 to over 16 000 last year. sales of electric cars and other alternatives have soared, but hydrogen cars are only on the cusp of large-scale production. i believe that this new law will boost the development of these vehicles, while ensuring they are reliable and safe. with the help of the law, mass production is now predicted to start in europe by 2015, with around 5% of total eu road stock set to be hydrogen-powered by 2025. the environmental benefits of hydrogen cars will depend on the energy source used to produce the hydrogen. they can directly tackle air pollution caused by petrol and will reduce our dependence on oil, but they will only help tackle global warming if hydrogen is produced in a sustainable way. that is why i strongly back mrs weisgerber’s negotiated amendments to ensure hydrogen fuel is produced sustainably and, as far as possible, from renewable energy. it is important to stress that hydrogen-powered cars can be just as safe as those that run on petrol and, in the event of an accident, emergency crews need to know what they are dealing with. that is why mrs weisgerber has ensured that vehicles will be readily identifiable by emergency services. this legislation does what only the european union can do in a strong internal market. it ensures a european-sized market for goods with common rules and high safety requirements. it is this market that is capable of producing the hydrogen cars of the future and i believe this law today, when we vote for it, is crucial to achieving that goal.
mr president, the british conservative delegation supported the motion for a resolution on georgia, which was a balanced one overall. however, we have objections to paragraph 19, which calls for a military esdp mission in georgia – although we would see nothing controversial in an eu civilian observer presence. similarly, paragraph 30, which claims that the lisbon treaty would help the eu’s position with regard to managing this crisis, is, in our view, unfounded. we support a more robust common external energy security policy under the cfsp with regard to russian oil and gas imports, but we do not see what difference the lisbon treaty would have made to managing this crisis. this is not about eu global weakness in foreign affairs, but about russian bullying and revanchism in the south caucasus.
mr president, for some bizarre reason i broke the trend of a lifetime in this parliament today by not voting against a report by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality – i abstained. in the past, i have constantly voted against these reports because they are normally full of complete rubbish. but, as a married father with two girls, i try to read every word of these reports and guess what they actually mean. i have some concerns about the committee this stuff comes from – i do not really think we need a women’s committee in this place when we have a committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. there are some phrases in this report – the ‘feminisation of poverty’, for example – which mean absolutely nothing but sound great to the pc brigade that resides out there. i do wonder what this committee would feel about, say, those who break the glass ceiling: for example, a mother of five, whose youngest child suffers from down’s syndrome, whose eldest daughter might be five months pregnant – as in the potential vice-president of the united states, sarah palin? i think that committee would not like the fact that she has broken through the glass ceiling. but i abstained on this report.
mr president, i reverted to type for this report, and voted against. i would like to detail some of the reasons why. i have a huge amount of respect for the rapporteur, mrs svensson, who has done a lot of work in this area and is one of the strongest female role models that this parliament could put forward. however, certain points in the report – some of which were voted down – were almost beyond belief. there were the calls for the gender thought police in paragraph 9. there was the challenge to traditional gender roles in paragraph 13 and, in paragraph 14, something approaching a hatred of new images on the internet. male and female forms have always been used in advertising. the male forms tend to look better than mine and the female forms tend to look better, say, than some members of this house. that is advertising for you. even the european commission – if you look at its website, or any of the publicity it drapes upon its buildings – uses images of men and women who are slightly better-looking than the average.
in writing. − the sartori reports deal with important matters of relevance to all our citizens. chemicals are manufactured and traded on a global basis and their hazards remain the same wherever they are used; accordingly it is appropriate that the classification and labelling of hazardous substances be suitably harmonised. the package agreed today represents a sensible compromise reached between the political groups and the institutions and i was therefore able to support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour on the weisgerber report. the potential of hydrogen as a clean form of power has long been recognised, and technologies in this area are constantly being improved. nevertheless, hydrogen power can only be truly effective as a clean and green energy if the hydrogen comes from sustainable and, ideally, renewable sources, and this fact has been noted in the final report.
in writing. − i welcome anja weisgerber's report on type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles. the report is a positive step in helping to stimulate the industry to intensify research and development efforts. encouraging the entrance of hydrogen-powered vehicles into the internal market will contribute considerably to achieving europe's climate change targets. i voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as this legislation will pave the way for full-scale production of these cars and provide european drivers with real alternatives in the near future. this new law will help boost the development of these vehicles while ensuring they are reliable and safe, and measures included in this report will ensure that the maximum environmental benefits from hydrogen-powered vehicles can be achieved.
in writing. − given the current and future problems affecting motor vehicle engines run on petroleum, it is clear that developments of alternatives are vital. the approval of specifics relating to this are a solid step forward. the relationship between aggregate consumption of oil through motor car use and that of increasing respiratory diseases, as well as concomitant rises in pollution, means that ‘next-generation’ vehicle design has to reflect this. clearly, the aspect of hydrogen generation through the use of electricity raises wider considerations, including how to locate the energy for the generation of the original electricity. however, this report helps to move the debate and the industry behind the car of the future and in the right direction.
in writing. − i will be voting in favour of this joint resolution because it is important that the union send a strong message to russia’s leadership. nevertheless, it fails to adequately criticise and apportion blame to the georgian leadership’s role in triggering the crisis. as far as i am concerned, under the current leadership, georgia is definitely not on track to join nato in the foreseeable future. my second point is that this crisis reinforces and strengthens the requirement for a european common foreign and security policy. the sooner this element of the lisbon treaty is implemented, the better.
in writing. − i am satisfied that my own group's amendment was successful. we have asked that the russian and georgian authorities provide information as to the location of cluster bombs dropped during hostilities, so as to hasten de-mining activities. parliament has condemned the use of force and believes that conflicts in the caucasus cannot be solved by violence; the speedy clear-up of mines will prevent future casualties of civilians.
in writing. − i welcome the swift action taken by the french presidency in working towards a solution to the conflict between georgia and russia. while criticism could be aimed at tbilisi’s military engagement in south ossetia, the retaliatory action taken by moscow is both disproportionate and a clear violation of georgia’s territorial integrity. i would call on the european parliament to send a clear message to the russian executive that its actions are unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − while the resolution expresses many views that i can support – in particular, the approach to the final status of south ossetia and abkhazia, and the call for russian troops to be withdrawn from georgia proper – it also contains many unhelpful elements. the eu could play a useful role in providing civil observers and monitors and in humanitarian assistance. however, it should not seek to exploit the georgia crisis for its own ends by calling for a strengthening of eu defence and security policy, by putting monitors under an esdp rubric, or by endorsing the rejected treaty of lisbon. furthermore, it was disappointing that the phrase ‘georgia is still on track eventually to join the (nato) alliance’ was removed in the vote. i therefore abstained on this resolution.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party welcomes this resolution, which shows strong and clear unity between eu member states in the council and the european parliament on this vital issue. we mourn the tragic loss of life in this conflict and condemn the violent actions of both sides. we support moves towards supporting a lasting peace, the provision of humanitarian aid to victims and reconstruction efforts. we voted to abstain on the second part of paragraph 27, as we are clear that this is a resolution aimed at resolving the situation in georgia. to discuss the future membership of an external organisation such as nato would only distract from this important focus. we wholeheartedly support the resolution's call to ensure a lasting resolution to the conflict on the basis of the eu-brokered six-point agreement, and we call on russia to act decisively to meet the agreed conditions of this ceasefire plan, thus allowing for the resumption of negotiations on the eu-russia partnership agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution from the legal affairs committee. the common frame of reference will be an important legal development, and we as yet do not know what form it will take. it is vital that this parliament and stakeholders in all countries and legal systems are fully informed of all future developments.
in writing. − i was able to support the de rossa report and hope that the commission fully takes on board the ombudsman’s recommendations in relation to the rule of law and the principle of good administration.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are fully supportive of the principle of equality of opportunity between women and men. we agree with some aspects of this report such as: the need to make greater progress on dealing with the pay gap between women and men; the promotion of entrepreneurship among women; the importance of policies at national level that seeks to promote an improving work-life balance. as our shadow minister for women has said: "a conservative approach to gender equality will be based upon a belief in equality of opportunity and equitable legal, commercial, social and political treatment". however, we are concerned by certain aspects of the report such as: the call for new legal bases in eu law and the request for a decision on the "full communitarisation of policies". also, we cannot support the creation of a costly "european institute for gender equality" as set out in the report; such matters must be for individual member states to pursue. for these reasons, we have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − the garcía perez report deals with many important issues relating to gender equality, social justice and fundamental rights. one issue which is of increasing concern across europe is that of human trafficking, which involves victims from both within and outside the eu. combating serious organised crime of this nature requires a cross-border and multi-agency approach, and it is clear that the eu has a key role to play in this area.
in writing. − while progress has been made on the issue of gender equality in europe, we are far from full parity. the report highlights various areas that require the commission’s attention, such as job quality and the need for better instruments to tackle violence against women. i would also support the call for member states to urgently ratify the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings. i voted in support of iratxe garcía pérez’s report ‘equality between women and men – 2008’.
in writing. − i voted for this report which aims to tackle gender inequality. it is clear that women do not have the same opportunities as men to progress in their career. working mothers will never be able to balance family and professional life without stronger parental rights for both men and women. this is why i fully support the calls for increasing the duration of parental leave, and in particular increasing the incentives for fathers to take parental leave, and flexible working conditions. it is only with these kinds of rights that we will be able to tackle gender inequality. women will never gain true equality until men take their fair share of responsibility for childcare and running the home, just as my fantastic husband does. he cooks, he shops, but he's not so good at making the bed!
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are fully supportive of the principle of equality of opportunity between women and men. we support the fundamental principle as outlined in paragraph 1 of the report: ‘emphasises the importance of giving women and men the same opportunities to develop as individuals regardless of gender’. however, we believe that this report is overly-prescriptive and heavy-handed in its approach and conclusions. we do not believe the eu should have greater powers in this area. such matters are for individual member states to decide upon. we reject the approach as outlined in recital i which states: ‘whereas gender stereotyping in advertising thus echoes the unequal distribution of gender power’. such statements do not advance a healthy debate on equality. likewise, we cannot support the thinking behind, inter alia, recitals f and g. the calls for ‘zero tolerance’ mentioned in the report are too vague and could lead to bad legislation if followed through. for these reasons, we have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − i welcome eva-britt svensson’s report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men. the global character of modern advertising demands a concerted european effort to encourage advertisers to move away from gender stereotyping. self-regulatory practices in the uk are already quite rigorous, and i would hope that other member states would be open to embracing similar measures. i therefore voted in support of the report.
in writing. − given the scientific uncertainty and ethical questions involved, i fully support calls for the commission to bring forward proposals seeking to prohibit the cloning of animals for food supplies.
in writing. − the cloning of animals for food supply, i feel, carries with it various risks both to human health and animal welfare. i am not convinced that embracing this type of technology for consumption purposes is beneficial to european citizens. i therefore voted in favour of calling for a ban on the cloning of animals for food supply.
in writing. − cloning animals for food is a topical issue at the moment. broadly speaking, i am not against cloning in terms of scientific research and animal breeding development. however, in terms of animal welfare and food safety, i am totally opposed to cloned animals entering the food chain. research and past experience have proven that cloned animals are more prone to disease and have a reduced life expectancy. although i do not wish to stand in the way of science, it is clear that we are not yet fully aware of the all the consequences and implications of cloning, both in terms of animal welfare and human consumption. it is for this reason that clear criteria and controls should be implemented to ensure that cloned animals are prevented from entering the food chain. while i realise that this is a sensitive topic, i believe that we should err on the side of caution. product quality, animal welfare and environmental concerns should remain our priority in terms of food production.
mr president, may i at the outset thank the commissioner very much indeed for her strong and audacious statement, which was very much appreciated. may i also say to mr kaczmarek that he should be aware that 19% of maternal deaths are caused by unsafe abortions. surely this is something that has to be seriously addressed, and there should be no pretence that it can be dealt with in any other way. as we focus on sexual reproductive health rights, we hear from the other side that they have problems with the vocabulary used in this resolution. apparently they do not even like the word ‘rights’ to be used; they do not like the word ‘services’ to be used. these semantics would not go down very well, i fear, with the thousands upon thousands of grieving motherless children in the developing world, or with those children whose mothers have died in agony because there was no anaesthetic, or with a mother bleeding to death because there is no thread for stitches, or a mother dying because there is not the three cents to buy the magnesium sulphate that would save her from death through haemorrhaging. tell them that the vocabulary used in this resolution matters. try telling them that it all costs too much. those lives are precious and no woman should die giving life. we also have to take into account that some people say the reality is that women have low status and low value, and therefore that we cannot change things. that is absolute nonsense. we have to change things. we have to deal with the kind of misogyny that leads to this suffering and grief. we also demand change from the presidency. we demand action from the presidency on the commitments it has made on the mdgs. we liked the fine words from the presidency of the european union, but we need to see more action. meeting mdg 5 means building health systems and ensuring that we address financially the fact that 40% of women globally give birth without any skilled assistance. we look to the presidency to take the lead. for instance, in france between 2006 and 2007, aid to africa actually declined. france is off track in its commitments, and we need to know that the presidency is going to reflect on the call to action and make the kind of commitments that are needed before 2010. will the presidency state whether those budgetary commitments will be made? will it deliver on that promise? we know that there is a need to fight maternal mortality. we know how much it costs. we know too, sadly, what it costs not to do it.
mr president, i am pleased that this parliament is holding a debate on mdg 5 because, as i speak, at this very moment a woman is losing a life to give a life somewhere in the world. shocking as this is, the progress on this mdg has been negligible, as we have heard, and it is the only mdg with no improvement – and in some regions it has worsened. some would argue that this issue has had such little attention because it affects women, and because 99% of the deaths occur in the developing countries. this is one of the biggest social inequality issues in the world and i believe that the eu – whilst i recognise the commissioner’s personal commitment – has been very slow in addressing it. so i would like to ask the commission and the council what they are going to do to ensure there is increased funding to ensure that this budget line is not diminished. when you are looking at heading 4, where short-term crises and natural disasters tend to take precedence, we need to ensure that it is prioritised not only internally within the union but also internationally. i would ask the commission and the member states to look at delivery of these programmes with renewed scrutiny to ensure that the eight programmes are not beset by poor quality of service, corruption and lack of accountability, which is why the programme has not progressed in some countries. well-thought-out programmes are what is needed. as ms mcguinness pointed out, we saw in india a project, with very little funding, for providing mobile phones and as little as two days’ training for a link person who could recognise the danger signs in pregnancy and post-pregnancy, and this, combined with education, very basic-level personal hygiene and just the need to boil water, meant the difference between living or dying. so, in this year the un has called the year of action for mdgs, we cannot be complacent for much longer and we must make sure that we take away the tragic divide between the rich and the poor world.
mr president, i think the fact that a woman a minute dies giving birth – one of the most natural things in the world, as the commissioner described – is shocking and scandalous. equally, the fact that we are failing to meet this millennium development goal, and failing the most vulnerable women and children in our world, is also shaming. i would like to ask both the french presidency and the commission to report back to the house what is decided upon in new york at the end of this month, and that they will personally make it a priority over the next weeks to secure change, not just at member state level, but at international level, to put this higher on the political agenda.
author. − i thank the commissioner, and agree with her that the election observations are some of the most useful work that the european union does. it is high-profile work in those countries, and almost without exception it is money well spent. i have been very proud to go on a number of election observation missions over the years, most recently in pakistan. i was actually in sri lanka for a delegation visit. but i wonder if i can push the commissioner slightly on one point: during the four or perhaps five years between one election observation mission and the next, does the eu actually offer specific help and suggestions to address any deficiencies or areas where we think that there may be a need to improve and that we can offer ideas, support and perhaps finance to make sure that countries do not repeat in one election the errors they may have made before?
mr president, i would also like to agree with mr evans on the value of election observation missions. i too was honoured to be appointed by the commissioner as the chief observer in the recent elections in cambodia. i thought that the missions – as do all of the election observation missions – proved a very useful aid to the cambodian authorities in the conducting of their election missions. my request to the commissioner is that she look to the resources that she has available to do even more of these missions in the future, if possible, because i also agree that they are an extremely valuable, attention-raising measure. they are highly valued by the countries where they take place and also by the heads of state in the various missions.
author. − i thank the commissioner for her reply and for the fact that she did take action, and the action came after i put down the question. she will understand that there is a long delay between putting questions down and getting answers. but i want to reinforce the point that this money is palestinian money. it is not under any circumstances israeli money for them to withhold. holding on to it is tantamount to theft, if not of the money then of the interest. it is used regularly as blackmail against the palestinians, and i hope the commission will continue to press the israelis to release this money as soon as it is due to the palestinians, rather than using it as yet another political tool.
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly i would like to pay tribute to the shadow rapporteurs and their group advisers for their useful input on this report. i think we had some very interesting debates and we did not always agree. but at least we managed to conduct the discussions in a very civilised manner. i would also like to thank the international trade committee secretariat for their input and, while i am on my thank-yous, i would like to thank all the dg trade officials for their useful advice and suggestions. clearly the european union, as the largest exporter of services, has a strong interest in opening new markets for services. however, my personal interest in this subject is more focused on how services can be used as a tool to help the poorest people out of poverty. but before we do that, let us remind ourselves of the importance of services. services represent 75% or thereabouts (there is some debate/disputes over the exact numbers) of the eu’s gdp compared to only about 2% for agriculture. in africa, services represent 52% of gdp and rising compared to 16% for agriculture. so, given these figures, it is a real shame that so much emphasis was placed on agriculture in the doha development round when it is really the opening of trade and services that promises to take so many people out of poverty. that is why i was prepared to accept amendments stating that negotiations on trade and services would not only serve the interests of the eu, but the economic growth of the poorest countries. we should not forget what development actually means: it is taking people out of poverty, and we can achieve this by encouraging entrepreneurs to create wealth and jobs. in many of the poorest countries, entrepreneurs tell me that they are desperate to tackle poverty. but what they really need are banking services for getting that cheaper loan to be able to expand their business and employ more people and create more wealth locally; insurance services, making sure that when their life or their business is ruined and something goes wrong, they have something to fall back on; legal services, enforcing those contracts made with partners; and communications services, knowing the best prices at local markets, deciding when to go to local markets and actually get into local markets. however, we should all recognise that where governments through no fault of their own are unable to provide basic services such as health, education and water to the poorest citizens, then entrepreneurs must have a role to fill in the gaps in service provision. unfortunately, trade in services only accounts for about 25% of world trade but has a potential to create so much more wealth and jobs. but let us turn to some of the contentious points in the report. one of the points of debate has been over the so-called ‘services of general economic interest’, but we should remember that different countries define these in different ways. some countries believe that health, education and water should only be provided by the state. others have turned to non-state players. in ethiopia, nigeria, kenya and uganda, more than 40% of people in the lowest economic quintile receive their health care from private providers. surely we should be encouraging more investment in these sectors. in education, i urge my colleagues to look at the work of professor james tooley of newcastle university. he began his research at the london-based institute of education with the belief that private education was actually an abomination. however, he soon found out, perhaps counter-intuitively, that private schools could provide a better education to the poor. when a survey was conducted of state schools in india, some were simply shut. in some, teachers did not turn up and in one case a teacher made his students make tea for him all day long. so the working poor voted with their feet. they saved up to pay for private education, not in a steel and glass tower, but usually a simple room above a shop. these schools then subsidised free education for the non-working poor. what is wrong, i ask, with encouraging trade in these services when it helps the poorest? now i hear some members of this house who believe that only the state can provide these services and it should be on a monopoly basis. and even where there is state failure or where the state collects insufficient revenue to provide these services, they do not believe that non-state players should be allowed to fill in the gap. would they rather see the poorest people have no access to water? would they rather see the poorest people have no access to education? would they rather see the poorest people have no access to health care, rather than go to a private provider? the next point of contention has been over sovereignty. now, i agree with those who say that we should not force the opening of trade and services down the throat of our negotiating partners. but surely we should agree that where a country decides to liberalise what we may consider to be a service of general economic interest, we have no right to tell them not to liberalise their markets. i have to say, though, i have been disappointed by some of my colleagues: some members of this house believe that we should actually tell developing countries to close their markets. it should not be about private versus state. it should not be about local versus foreign providers. it should be about what works. instead i believe we should all work together to bring down trade barriers that condemn the poor. we should work together to end state monopolies that leave many of the poorest without essential services and we should be always be a friend to those entrepreneurs who want to tackle global poverty by creating wealth and jobs through increased investment in services.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur for his openness and cooperation. however, having said that, our group will not be able to support this report in tomorrow’s vote, partly indeed because of this presumption that trade in services is essentially exactly the same as trade in goods. as mrs castex has already said, that simply is not the case. we cannot agree with that, not least because trade in services almost always requires changes in national legislation or in implementing regulations, which often go to the very heart of the social fabric of a society, especially if it concerns basic services on which people depend. it also goes against the evidence that wto members themselves increasingly distinguish between trade in goods and trade in services. at the last wto ministerial meeting just a few months ago in july in geneva, a group of latin american countries even circulated a proposal to remove health care, education, water, telecommunications and energy entirely from the wto, exactly on the basis that these are essentially public services and they are human rights which should not be treated as tradable commodities. finally, the report does quote quite selectively some positive national examples of liberalisation and basic services, but it does not refer at all to the very many devastating examples which could equally well have been cited and which we ought to be mindful of as well. the issue that i want to focus on is the problem of the liberalisation of financial services. no issue has dominated the headlines more this year than the global financial crisis. it is widely agreed to have been facilitated by a lack of adequate regulation in financial markets. yet, in the wto negotiations on services, further deregulation and liberalisation of financial markets is being sought by richer countries, and indeed this report entirely supports that proposal. it does seem a bit ironic to me that the wto director, pascal lamy, has called for a conclusion to the wto agenda as a solution to the global financial crisis when its actual policies would, by any objective estimation, probably be much more likely to contribute to further financial instability. i am disappointed that all our amendments that would have required at least a pause in further liberalisation of financial services until the financial stability forum has issued its recommendations about some basic new regulations such as capital requirements and cross-border liquidity – this was just a fairly mild request that we should wait for that – have actually been rejected. for that reason we have retabled those amendments and we would certainly ask you to support them.
mr president, i would like to acknowledge the enormous amount of work my colleague, syed kamall, has put into this report on trade in services, but i am afraid i cannot unreservedly congratulate him on his work, as i have fundamental disagreements with some elements of his approach. the key issue is services of general economic interest. here, normally in the european parliament, between the socialist and the christian-democrat groups we reach a point of compromise that reflects the political balance of forces in this institution. but i am afraid, here on this occasion, that compromise has not been reached: in fact, we have heard some comments from his colleagues that suggest that some of his own group members, those with a more developed social conscience, are squirming and feeling rather uncomfortable with the approach that has been taken by the rapporteur. this must be the most liberal report – and i say that, in case there is any confusion, in the pejorative sense of the term – that the international trade committee has ever passed to the plenary. it makes no effective distinction between commercial and non-commercial services, and i and a large majority of my group will only be able to vote in favour of mr kamall’s report if amendment 2, amendment 11 and, in particular, amendment 5 are adopted, which will protect universal, accessible and high-standard public services for all.
rapporteur. − mr president, i really do not know where to start, as everyone has been so kind. i thank everyone for their contributions to the debate, welcoming every single contribution. i would like to tackle some of the issues that were raised, in the couple of minutes i have been afforded. it is not often i get up to speak, so you will have to allow me some self-indulgence. mr markov talked about ‘one size fits all’. it is made quite clear in this report that, at the same time as we should not be imposing liberalisation on other countries, we should also not be imposing protectionism on other countries, or state monopolies. that is the point i have tried to make, so it is far from ‘one size fits all’. we recognise that there is a diversity of solutions for different countries, but let us allow them the option of liberalisation. many people in poorer countries have said to me they are sick and tired of not having a choice, of having to go to a state monopoly that performs badly or to a private monopoly that they all know has links to the ruling elite. what they really want is access, in the first place, or a choice through which they actually have some sort of access. regarding a pause in financial services liberalisation, there is a difference between the financial crisis, seen globally, and bad lending and bad debts. poor african entrepreneurs have said to me they want access to capital markets in order to borrow money to buy a tractor so that they can plough the fields and create more wealth locally, so let us give them that ability and access to capital. finally, i was condemned by my colleague, glyn ford, which i actually take as a compliment. i am very happy to hear that this is ‘the most liberal report’ and hope that will be on my tombstone one day – though not immediately. i want to point out that there is a difference between a social conscience and a socialist conscience. a social conscience means looking at what actually works and how we can really help the poor, rather than clinging to an outdated socialist ideology which, as mr zaleski said, lost its legitimacy after being imposed on central and eastern europe for so many years.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am really glad we had the opportunity to debate this important matter tonight, and i am proud to present this new proposal to enhance the position of european consumers. the revision of the crs code of conduct and the deal we have on the table represent a chance for an early and successful conclusion to an important piece of work. the new code is designed to re-energise the travel sector, so the sooner it is introduced, the sooner we see the benefits of that – lower air fares, more choice and greater transparency. crss should, of course, be able to negotiate freely the conditions of the distribution of air services but, under my revision, crss will have to compete more aggressively with each other for air-carrier participation, on the basis of lower booking fees and better quality of service. this will have great benefits for european consumers. firstly, choice: consumers will get more choice and should get better service from their travel agents. greater competition will also provide a boost to the quality of information available to travel agents and, thereby, the consumer. secondly, price: this in turn should mean that the price of airline tickets, kept artificially high by the present system, could go down by as much as 10% as a result, according to the commission’s research. thirdly, transparency: through tougher safeguards, travel agents and consumers will be better protected from market abuse and distortion. two main safeguards are built in. one concerns audit provisions. i deemed it necessary to rethink those provisions and, as a result, they will prove more effective, and hence the regulation provides the commission with an important tool to monitor the activities of crss. fourthly, the definition of who is or is not a parent carrier. this issue has dominated the whole report and my work on it. it is important to get this right, because we do not want airlines investing in crss for the purpose of influencing the running of the business to the possible detriment of others. let me say to my colleagues who have worked so hard on this report that i believe that, within the deal we have on the table, we have a robust but flexible test, one which deals with all the concerns you have expressed. some have suggested tabling a split vote tomorrow but, frankly, this could leave us with too broad a scope of definition. i repeat what i have said in writing to those people. deleting the reference to ‘decisive influence’ does not provide the useful clarification of the elements in amendment 12 that it was designed to do. indeed, following such a deletion, it might be interpreted that any investor would be deemed to be a parent carrier, as ‘any other governing body of a system vendor’ could mean literally anything. should any air carrier participating in a crs with rights to merely receive information, for example, of annual decisions or just the annual accounts, be defined as a parent carrier? surely not. on the suggestion made by the alde group that the question should be referred back to the committee – that we should carry out a close examination of the ownership and governance structure of the concerned crs – the commission would need a new regulation to do that. when the commission states that it needs to examine this on a case-by-case basis, i do not see this as proof that we have a weak definition. on the contrary, we discussed this at length in committee, and an independent study was commissioned by me to help the committee. i made sure the shadow rapporteurs were fully informed at all stages on the state of informal contacts with the council. they specifically agreed to what is in the deal. i purposely held this matter back for a month while i made sure that all views were taken fully into account – environmental issues, mrs lichtenberger; full liberalisation, mr evans. so, tomorrow, i am asking for your support. we must vote for lower air fares, more choice and greater transparency. all of us have a duty to protect and inform the rights of consumers and get them the very best deal possible. that remains the priority. gesture politics is not my priority, but it is my priority to get the best deal for all those consumers we represent here in europe.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i too would like to thank mr kirkhope for his unfailing cooperation and support for all members on the committee. two years ago i looked at an internet-based travel agency, a travel website, for a ticket from london to san francisco. the website, or the computer, told me that there were no direct flights from london to san francisco and recommended a connecting flight via new york with, i think, united. of course there are direct flights, but it was not just in that particular website’s domain to issue them. but it highlighted to me, in a simplified form, the problem that we are trying to address with this revision: as commissioner mandelson said, a revision that goes back some 20 years or more. we must recognise the real changes that have taken place in technology over that period. now a large majority of people, and indeed all travel agents, have access to the internet, and i agree with the previous speakers who have said we have a duty to ensure fairness and equal access to the market and, as commissioner mandelson said, fair rules, effective rules, and protect the consumers and ensure competition. but, mr mandelson, you also said that you are pleased with the speed at which this has all gone through. whilst i share your aims and always want to do things as quickly as we can – and mr kirkhope’s aims of price transparency and consumer protection – i think that, in our speed to get this through, we have drifted away, certainly from the position that the committee on transport adopted at the end of may, and that the position that council has come up with, the so-called compromise position, is different from the position that we went for in the committee on transport. in the commission’s clarification yesterday, he speaks about ‘all past analyses will have to be done again under a new perspective, and the commission will have to examine each case on a case-by-case basis’. that, i think, means it is not clear enough, and we have not got to a position where, certainly, a lot of members on this side and in other groups would like to be, where we can say with absolute certainty that the position mr kirkhope hopes he has achieved has actually been such. that is why i will be recommending to my group to support a proposal that mrs lichtenberger, i believe, is going to make shortly.
mr president, in thanking the rapporteur for his report, i recognise his efforts to try and get a first-reading agreement on this important dossier. a first-reading deal would indeed have been possible if the council had accepted the committee on transport’s position. the rapporteur is right. we did discuss it in great detail in the committee on transport, and we came to a view in the committee on transport. but what happened subsequently is that that committee on transport view has been altered. alas, the council’s intervention and the subsequent council amendments not only served to muddy the waters, but caused serious concern for consumer organisations, travel agents and passenger associations. subsequently, what is now proposed by the rapporteur via the council has serious implications, not only legislatively, but internationally also. never in the field of eu legislation have two amendments caused so much mayhem and confusion to the detriment of the committee on transport’s democratic position. some people do not have a problem with that, but the reality is that the council’s intervention has caused great uncertainty, both morally and legally. there is a suspicion that the council is creating loopholes to protect certain major air carriers, particularly as it applies to parent carriers. also, the undue haste to get an agreement could lead to bad legislation. therefore, i support the call for this report to be taken back to committee so that we can address all the concerns raised, get this legislation right, not for our major air carriers, but for our consumers, whose representations tell us they dislike the council’s additions.
rapporteur. − madam president, i wish to thank the commissioner for that extremely clear exposition of his position and the confirmation that, once we have concluded our proceedings in parliament (in a positive manner tomorrow, i hope), there is more work than can and will be done by himself and others in the commission to ensure that what parliament wants is put into effect. i wish to thank my colleagues for their contributions, despite the fact that i do not agree with their every interpretation. that is probably understandable because this is undoubtedly a very complex matter. despite the very open way in which i have proceeded with the work, it is inevitable that some of the interpretations of its outcome will be politicised or maybe even misunderstood. however, i believe it is in the interests of the consumer and in the wider interests of clarification that we proceed in the way we have agreed. i am proud of the work i have done. i am proud also of the work that others have done to help me. the smiles and acceptances of the shadow rapporteurs during the proceedings gave me confidence that they would support me, not only this evening, but also with their groups tomorrow. therefore, i hope that on consideration, and having heard the very sensible and positive contribution by the commissioner tonight, they will come back tomorrow and allow us to go forward in total unanimity to make sure that europe is a better place for travellers, a better place for consumers and a better place for enforcing competition policy in future years.
in writing. – i support this report which recommends that the rules regarding the computerised reservation systems used by high street travel agents to book airline tickets are simplified and modernised. the current rules regarding crs only serve to stifle competition and maintain high fares. these proposals will promote competition between the companies which are in charge of providing these systems and will hopefully result in lower fares and more choice for travellers. at present, usually the most attractive option for consumers is to book directly with an airline. the new code of conduct will result in a greater degree of price transparency, giving the travel sector a boost and ensuring a fair deal for the consumer.
madam president, paragraph 44 of this report calls on member states to employ a trans-border approach to the use of existing capacities when co-financing port infrastructure. in simple terms, that means that one state should not duplicate and prejudice existing neighbouring facilities. yet that is precisely what is set to happen in my constituency of northern ireland – which is an area that the commissioner knows well. warrenpoint on carlingford lough has been built up, particularly through recent high investment, into a very successful roll-on, roll-off ferry port. just six miles away at greenore in the republic of ireland, on the same lough, it is proposed to duplicate those facilities with public money, through a company that is part-owned by the dublin government. i hear a lot from ireland’s politicians about wanting to help and cooperate with northern ireland, so have to ask why it is they are trying to supplant and destroy our port at warrenpoint. i hope the commission will take an interest in this matter and look out for the state aid issues, and that it will realise that such action is totally incompatible with any sensible ports policy.
madam president, i shall be brief, as i accept you do not want a debate. if there is to be an announcement at 12 o’clock, could that announcement also state whether the bureau is considering – and i am not trying to be provocative – having a longer period of being in brussels, so that we can have decisions in due time in order to get hotels and meeting rooms? because these constant one-by-one decisions are not making life easy for any of us. practically, could that be considered, and could we have a comment back in the announcement at 12 o’clock, please?
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an tuarascáil fhíormhaith seo ó frédérique ries. iarraim ar an choimisiún agus ar na ballstáit iad féin a atiomnú do spriocanna phlean gníomhaíochta sláinte agus comhshaoil na heorpa agus, ina theannta sin, an plean a threisiú trína dhéanamh níos uaillmhianaí agus é a bheith ag teacht níos mó lenár riachtanais. ina theannta sin, fáiltím roimh an mhéid a dúirt an coimisinéir dimas inniu. taispeánann ardú i dteagmhais chineálacha ar leith ailse nach féidir linn bheith bogásach. ach go háirithe, ba mhaith liom díriú ar ghníomhú i réimse sláinte mheabhrach mar réimse ríthábhachtach ar fad. is ábhar mór riosca í an drochshláinte mheabhrach maidir le féinmharú in éirinn agus is é an féinmharú is cúis leis an méid is mó básanna i measc ár ndaoine óga. ba chóir don aontas eorpach níos mó tacaíochta a thabhairt chun straitéisí oiriúnaithe coiscthe a fhorbairt. chuirfí fáilte mhór roimh aon ghníomhaíocht ar leibhéal an aontais maidir le sláinte mheabhrach a chur chun cinn. tacaím chomh maith leis na hiarratais chun gníomhú ar cheist chaighdeán an aeir laistigh agus ar shábháilteacht cumasc ceimiceán a úsáidtear i dtrealamh agus i dtroscáin. tá roinnt céimeanna tábhachtacha déanta ag an choimisiún ach tá gá le polasaí cuimsitheach ar chaighdeán aeir laistigh a chruthú ós rud é go bhfuil tinneas anála chomh forleathan sin san ae. ina theannta sin, is gá dúinn tacaíocht a chur ar fáil dár bhfiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide (fbmanna) lena chinntiú go dtig leo rialacháin sláinte comhshaoil a chomhlíonadh agus chun céimeanna a thabhairt isteach chun an tionchar a imríonn siad ar an chomhshaol a fheabhsú. i mo dháilcheantar féin, mar shampla, tá tionscadal fíormhaith déanta ag interreg ina leith. tá ár n-aeráid ag athrú agus tagann dúshláin nua leis seo i réimse na sláinte agus an chomhshaoil. is gá dul i ngleic leis na bagairtí nua ar ár gcomhshaol agus ar ár sláinte ar bhealach díreach agus éifeachtach. is í an teachtaireacht ar mhaith liom a chur i bhfeidhm ar an choimisiún ná go bhfuil an-chuid déanta ach tá gá leis an uaillmhian agus le gníomhartha ciallmhara coincréiteacha a mhéadú go fóill.
mr president, can i say to the president-in-office that it is very nice of her to put the ball rolling onto the playing field, but can i suggest that she take it back and put it in the box? because, in my view, we really do not need this directive. i think the previous council had it absolutely right when they said they did not want it. i echo very much the words of jan mulder that we do already have the nitrates directive and the groundwater directive. all these things are beginning to take action on the soil and making sure we are cleaning up our soils throughout the european union. i agree with graefe zu baringdorf that the farmers are indeed the custodians of the soil and that soil is so important for everything we grow, but do we actually need a soil directive? the problem with this soil directive is that it has been far too all-encompassing. we are trying to deal with industrial land and industrial pollution; we are talking about urban development and then about agricultural land and agricultural soils. it is just nonsense to actually bring in legislation like this at this stage. i think one of the problems we have here in the european union – and i think we do it out of the very best of intentions – is that if we need to do something, we immediately legislate. i do not think so. i think we have to pause for a moment and reflect. i think the council got it right. i suggest that it is not time to bring this back. i would suggest that it goes back to a new commission and the new council in the next parliamentary session. they can look again to see what is happening. i would encourage member states that do not have controls over the use of industrial land and over pollution from industry to actually put those in place at the national level. let us not interfere from the european level because i do not believe we need it. i think we want to make sure that we do not have the level of bureaucracy that we are getting. people are absolutely fed up to their back teeth with further bureaucracy. so i would say to the president-in-office: please do not set the ball rolling; take it back again.
mr president, firstly i would like to remind colleagues and the french presidency that, at parliament’s first reading on 14 november 2007, a considerable number of meps – 295 in fact – voted against this directive. there is no doubt that there are significant concerns about the cost of the proposed directive, especially those sections on contaminated land and national inventories. subsidiarity is a key question here, given that soil has limited cross-border effects, unlike air and water which, of course, are mobile. the proposed directive would force too many member states with already-effective domestic measures to dismantle them, as they would be incompatible with the directive. the point is not that we do not need any eu action on soil protection – indeed, the thematic strategy contains many good suggestions – but that any new eu strategy on soil protection should add value to and complement, not replace, member states’ existing domestic policies.
mr president, i would say to the commission and the council to take all the time they need for this directive. in fact, as far as i am concerned, they can take it away forever. from my point of view, i believe we neither need nor require this directive. farmers suffer enough red tape and bureaucracy at present and they see this all emanating from brussels. this could well be the straw that breaks the camel’s back. it is true that soil is very important and must be protected, but i have never yet met a farmer who will not protect the soil on his land – their future depends on it. the needs from the different parts of europe are very different. soils require different support from the north to the south, from the east to the west. this is a sensitive issue. please take it away and bury this directive. as mr mulder said, we already have sufficient directives. the intention may be good, but we do not need this good intention.
mr president, soil protection is of course necessary, but what is not necessary is another eu directive. as mr mulder said, we already have a plethora of directives and legions of rules on cross-compliance. this is a member state issue. what nation is going to let its soil erode away and degrade? indeed, what farmer needs brussels to tell him not to allow his assets to degrade? it is ludicrous. more brussels nannying will only add to the already intolerable administrative burden on farmers, whose time looking after their land is being constantly diminished by the time taken to fill in foolish forms. the parliament and commission should break the habit of a lifetime and forget about it.
mr president, i totally endorse what my colleagues in the ‘catch-the-eye’ process have been talking about. if the commission would like to come and look at my farm, it has been farmed for 3 000 years before christ was born, and continues to be farmed. the soil is in some of the best hearts. in fact this year we are producing four and a half tonnes of wheat to the acre, which is over 10 tonnes of wheat per hectare – if we can combine it, of course. we look after and manage the soil. leave it to those people who know about it. do not bring in any more bureaucracy from brussels because all you do is give everybody here a bad name, and we do some good work. keep up and do the good work, but leave it to the member state.
mr president, i am happy to speak in favour of the alde group motion to refer this back to committee. in my long years in this parliament i cannot recall, within the transport area, a report that has caused so much confusion and uncertainty as this one. we are making law here, and with that comes a responsibility to act with full knowledge and understanding of the text that honourable members will be asked to vote on. yet many members are unsure. many members are struggling to comprehend and understand this complex piece of legislation, made even more complex by the intervention of the council. there is great uncertainty, great unease across a wide spectrum of this chamber, which is why i believe we need to reassess, re-evaluate and examine more carefully the implications of these proposals back in the committee on transport. it is about getting it right, not about doing it quickly. by doing this, we will not be creating problems; we will be acting responsibly as legislators, defending parliament’s right to work at its pace, not at a pace dictated to it by industry lobbyists and the council of ministers.
rapporteur. − mr president, i urge us not to refer this back to the committee. i think this is an unnecessary, and a potentially damaging, delaying tactic in the interests of the consumers of europe, whom we represent. the first-reading agreement was struck in june with council and commission, after comprehensive debate and support in my – transport – committee. my shadow rapporteurs were fully involved with the process throughout and, as far as i am concerned, agreed the outcome. two presidencies – the slovenian and french – have both cooperated fully with me in this matter, and i do not understand why more time is now needed to debate or scrutinise this vital measure. the fairest and most democratic way to proceed is to vote now on the agreement. many of the people who are now protesting did not bother to come to the debate last night when commissioner mandelson, at my request, clarified to parliament the assurances that a formal notice will be published in the official journal before the entry into force of this regulation, giving a clear interpretation of the regulation from the commission’s point of view and very concrete and strict criteria (which happens on competition issues) to enforce these measures, in the interests of the consumers of europe. i do not think that the consumers will understand these protests if we do not proceed to bring this measure forward. i therefore ask you, sincerely – all of you – to support me and the hard work that all of us have done across political groups to bring this matter through as quickly as possible.
mr president, i rise to make an explanation of vote on our resolution on maternal health. we shall have to wait and see where this chamber stands on apple pie, but it has, at least, pronounced itself clearly on the subject of motherhood. nonetheless, i rise in no carping spirit to ask why we felt the need to pronounce on these questions at all. these are sensitive, intimate and, for many of our constituents, ethical questions. they ought properly to be addressed through the national democratic procedures of the member states. by expressing ourselves as we have this afternoon, we have exhibited a presumption, an arrogance, and a desire to arrogate power to the centre and to overrule the national traditions of our constituent members. look at that resolution and you may understand why it is that the institutions of the european union are so widely disliked and mistrusted by the voters.
mr president, i think daniel hannan has missed the point. this resolution is actually about the united nations meeting on the millennium development goals, and aims to put pressure on world leaders to take seriously mdg 5 on maternal health: that is what it is about. it is nothing to do with abortion in poland or ireland. it is about access to maternity rights. however, my explanation of vote was not about that. what i wanted to say was that one of the saddest things i have ever seen in my life was in addis ababa at the fistula hospital we went to with a number of women colleagues as part of the acp delegation. there we saw queues of young women – in fact they were really just girls of 13 or 14 – and there was a stream of urine coming down the street from where they were queuing. they were queuing up and there was a stream of urine because they had developed a vaginal fistula as a result of there being no medical care during childbirth in remote parts of ethiopia. i think it is extremely important that the european union invest in proper maternal health care in some of the poorest countries in the world. it is a disgrace that there is so little progress on this millennium development goal, as it is one of the most important. i hope this will arm our negotiators, such as glenys kinnock, who are going to new york. i also think that people like daniel hannan really ought to read and find out about what is going on in this parliament.
in writing. − i thank mr kirkhope for his report, which will help provide a better service for consumers. at the moment, the price consumers pay for an inter-member state ticket depends on the country of purchase. in my own country, england, i pay the same price for a ticket whether i buy it in the city of departure, city of arrival or a third city. i see absolutely no reason why this should not apply across the whole of the union.
in writing. − by updating the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems (crs) you ensure that reservation systems for air travel services adhere to the principle of fair competition. however, i fear that the vague definition of a company’s ‘participation in capital’ as the carrier having ‘decisive influence’ on the crs will cause confusion and allow for the distortion of competition. this report should be about benefiting the consumer and these views are reflected in my vote.
in writing. − i voted in support of hélène flautre’s report on the evaluation of eu sanctions as part of the eu’s actions and policies in the area of human rights. i welcome the rapporteur’s balanced approach towards an important tool of the eu’s common foreign and security policy. sanctions need to be applied on a case-by-case basis and targeted in a way that avoids affecting innocent parties. i am satisfied that mrs flautre’s report adequately covers such points.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues wholeheartedly support human rights for all. we support the concept of a cfsp eu sanctions regime which is applied on a unanimous basis to target the most egregious abusers of human rights in the world, provided the uk can always exercise a veto in this respect. we also deplore the way they have been applied inconsistently and are wide open to breaches, such as the way president mugabe has been allowed into the eu on several occasions in spite of a travel ban on his regime. unfortunately the flautre report goes further by recognising the right of the european court of justice to rule over the list of banned terrorist organisations − which must remain a political decision not a judicial one − and claiming the lisbon treaty is required to make eu sanctions for abuses of human rights more effective. it calls for european parliamentary oversight of the member state security services and making the code of conduct on arms exports binding. for those reasons we will not be supporting the report.
in writing. − mr kamall’s report on trade in services looks at ways eu companies can gain access to third-country service markets. indeed, services are playing an increasingly important role in international trade. it is precisely for this reason that it is important to distinguish between commercial and essential public services. i have made this clear in the way i have voted.
in writing. − i voted in support of frédérique ries’s report on the mid-term review of the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010. the call for the action plan to focus on indoor and outdoor air quality and chemicals has my backing. for all producers or importers to be obliged to demonstrate the safety of their product before it can be put on the market is also a positive step to ensure that both consumers and the environment are adequately protected.
mr president, i would echo what has been said by a large number of colleagues here this afternoon: a democratic mauritania represents a pole of stability in the subregion. barely 12 months after the european union’s election observation mission declared that the elections had integrity, there was a second coup in two years by the generals in mauritania. we call for the immediate release of the president and prime minister and believe that the solution to this is through dialogue. we welcome the involvement of the african union in the process, but we urge the commission to engage in this dialogue to try to find a peaceful and democratic solution to the current crisis and to use, if necessary, the threat that we will cut off all aid – apart from food and humanitarian aid – to mauritania if we do not find a satisfactory solution in the coming months.
author. − mr president, the brutal theocratic regime in tehran seems to take a perverse pleasure in shocking the world and defying the civilised standards that characterise most other countries. iran is notorious not only for the sheer volume of executions, but the regular and merciless executions of juveniles and young adults who committed crimes as children. whereas most countries that still impose the death penalty against adults do so exclusively for aggravated murder, iran’s interpretation of capital crimes is extremely wide and includes homosexuality and adultery. the courts often impose such a sentence for what to us in europe are misdemeanours or not an offence at all. in the past, teenage girls found to be sexually active outside marriage have been executed for so-called ‘crimes of sexual chastity’. as a union, we should be unwavering in our condemnation of iran’s appalling human rights record, just as we are of its efforts to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. we appeal here in this house for the iranian president to show clemency, but i have to say i am not very hopeful.
in writing. – this parliament supports the total abolition of the death penalty around the world. unfortunately there is a long way to go. therefore we have to try to make what progress we can. we welcome the suspension of the use of stoning as a means of execution for women in iran. we urge the majlis to urgently amend legislation in order to ensure that no one is executed for crimes committed when less than 18 years of age. we should also condemn the imprisonment and persecution of iranian citizens who campaign for human rights and the abolition of the death penalty. in the present circumstances we call on iraqi and us authorities not to forcibly return to iran refugees and asylum-seekers and to work to find a long-term solution to the situation facing those people currently in limbo in camp ashraf.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the plight of albino people in tanzania seems barely credible in today’s age. when i first heard about this issue, it seemed like something straight out of joseph conrad’s novel heart of darkness. i would like to believe in the renaissance and potential of africa, as so many other colleagues in this house seem to, but the murder of albino people for their body parts does nothing to improve the image of the continent internationally. sadly, the suffering of albino people is not limited to tanzania but occurs all over africa. quite apart from the medical consequences of albinism in the tropics, including a high risk of terrible skin cancers, the long-suffering albino people are at best traditionally considered as freaks or curiosities, and at worst they are murdered to satisfy demand for traditional medicine that is more akin to medieval sorcery. the eu should not hesitate to campaign on the issue and bring pressure to bear on countries like tanzania, where, apparently, such scant regard for human rights and dignity is common. however, i am heartened that the tanzanian president has appealed to his people to change their traditional ways. let us hope that other leaders throughout africa repeat this important message.
mr president, on a point of order, this concerns the agenda on thursday where we made a late request – i am sorry it was late – it is a proposal to change slightly the agenda for thursday where currently there is a vote proposed for the social package resolution. at the moment, individual groups have tabled their own separate resolutions. with the best will in the world and good faith on all parts we tried to negotiate collectively a compromise resolution. we have not managed to do that, so at the moment what is likely is individual resolutions will be voted and each resolution would be voted down, which would not give a very good message. therefore, collectively the majority of political groups thought it was a good idea if i just stood up and made the case that perhaps it would be tactful not to have a vote at all on the resolution. this is not because it is not important: it is because it is important. we did not want to give the wrong message and it was better to give no message following the debate that we had, very fully covering the various points, last time. so the proposal, supported by a majority of groups, is that we do not have a vote this thursday.
mr president, we vote tomorrow on a report that appears to limit the immunity of europol officials, but is a smokescreen for future legislation that will actually extend this until after 2010. there is no debate. the vote is merely a consultative exercise. the decision will be made by the european council. europol officials will be able to operate in member states in a wide variety of capacities that will give them immunity for anything that they do and anything that they say in the course of their duties – a privilege not even enjoyed by the nkvd under stalin’s ‘great terror’. this will be an innovation in england, where no public official has immunity from prosecution. under the lisbon treaty, member states’ parliaments will not be able to block the further extension of europol’s powers, amended by council decisions. these are the first steps in the creation of a european union police state.
mr president, we are all very well aware that rising oil prices and gas prices are having a hugely negative effect on many sectors of our economy and on consumers. i would like to draw attention to the impact this crisis is having on the farming sector, the fishing sector and small businesses. high fuel costs have been passed on to the farmer at the present time: costs are escalating and farmers are not receiving an increase to cover that cost of high energy and gas prices. the fuel crisis is undermining the growth of competitiveness in our small and medium-sized enterprises; reducing the consumer purchasing power aggravates the situation and, mr president, i dread to think what is going to happen this winter – many millions of people will be unable to afford to keep themselves warm. we all saw what happened at the petrol stations when the price of oil was going up; every day you went past a petrol station the price went up. but, now that the price has come down, they have not been bringing it down nearly as far as it went up. i think that they need to respond to that: they have made all their profits and it is time to pass on and bring in decent prices to the consumer.
that concludes the item.
now we move to a debate that was organised last month by the european parliament with extraordinary prescience, anticipating the events of last week, perhaps – unlike others. the next item is the joint debate on– the report by poul nyrup rasmussen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, including recommendations to the commission on hedge funds and private equity (2007/2238(ini)) (a6-0338/2008), and– the report by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, including recommendations to the commission on transparency of institutional investors (2007/2239(ini)) (a6-0296/2008).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, i would say to the commissioner that, in the current turmoil, the interconnection between all institutions is plain to see. it is equally plain and logical that regulation has to be targeted at function and not at entities. it would be wrong if one private company had to abide by different rules from others just because it was owned by private equity. there are two sides to everything. amid the frequent criticism again this week of short selling, let us not forget the stock lenders. attention by investors – even supervisors – to the lending policies of pension funds and others is relevant, and not just the activities of share borrowers. we have visited this matter before in the context of voting borrowed shares. ‘two sides’ also means that enhancing transparency will only be effective if it is accompanied by due diligence, and not undone again by excessive disclaimers. finally, voluntary codes do have a role, and reach parts which we cannot regulate. however, they are not just a private matter for the industries concerned, and need exposure, easy access and active review and monitoring.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, sorry, this is part two. as mr rasmussen said, these reports are balanced, though some may be more inclined to quote from the press from one side of the scales than the other. we have had rumblings about hedge funds and private equity for years but, caught up in the present financial turmoil, it is no longer a rarity to be concerned about debt and leverage. however, this does present us with an opportunity to clear the air and establish a comprehensive review that addresses the exposure issues underlying the present turmoil as well as other risk and debt issues, including those within hedge funds and private equity. the reports do accept that this must be done on a non-discriminatory and principled basis, paying due regard to proportionality. it also needs to be done in the context of international developments and, above all, it must be smart. now, whilst debt and its proper management is one issue that appears everywhere at the moment, another is that of compensation packages and conflict of interest. clearly, for market stability, steps have to be taken to ensure that rewards match longer-term horizons. i agree that that principle should extend to all areas. this is not to endorse the notion that all private equity and venture capital has asset stripping as its motivation: that is certainly not the best way to turn around a failing company into a profitable, saleable one. indeed, national laws to prevent asset stripping already exist, but they have rarely been used. so i am not convinced that a european measure would in fact be any progress. coming again to the matter of regulation versus voluntary codes, many of the voluntary codes are only just getting under way, and for the main part these should be given time to operate. they are also easier to update, but as i said earlier, they are not a private matter, and public confidence does come into the equation. so i am pleased that my suggestion of a one-stop website as a register of voluntary codes with relevant links to compliance postings has been accepted by colleagues as a potentially useful tool, and i hope the commissioner will follow that up. when it comes to transparency, it is also important to recognise that the public investors and supervisors need different levels of information, and that information has to be fit for purpose. even within the context of professional investors, burying information in what i would call ‘legal spam’ is unacceptable. supervisors should have all the information that they need, but care has to be taken in those areas where the information should not get into the public domain. finally, we have gone into those sensitive areas of securitisation and credit rating agencies. on securitisation, i know the commissioner likes the retention idea, but that is clearly just one available tool, and i would urge that he be prepared to swap tools and that he should not close the tool box too soon. on rating agencies, there is a need to get a better handle on many matters, but i do warn against fragmentation from a system of internationally accepted ratings. again, both these areas are an example of where, as i said, we must be smart: we must be smart ahead of trying to be vindictive.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, doesn’t this all go to show that this vast exercise of eu financial regulation has singularly missed the mark? in its obsession about money laundering and pursuit of the elusive single market in financial services, the eu has been pursuing the wrong objectives. let us accept that, despite earlier assurances from mr trichet and mr almunia and others, there will be further financial failures in the european union, and real economies in the eu will be affected by the credit crisis. so there is not much point now in discussing capital requirements and what we will do in the future to stop this sort of thing happening again; we have a problem, and the problem is now. we can blame the americans, we can blame hedge funds, we can blame investment bankers, we can blame who we like, but what mr mccreevy’s commission might rather spend its time now doing is discussing with the finance ministers of the different countries how the burden will be shared across countries when we find that we have to bail out financial institutions to the tune of hundreds of millions, as is now happening in the usa. how are we going to come to the aid of italy, spain, greece and ireland – mr mccreevy’s own country – when bad situations there are made worse by the crisis, and, stuck in the euro, there is nothing that those countries themselves can do to help themselves?
madam president, the new demon, i think the commissioner will agree, seems to be short-selling. i would ask the commission to arrange a study which compares in the case of hbos the incidence of short-selling against sales by long-only investors – pension funds, insurance companies, private investors and their fund managers – and the plain withdrawal of deposits by frightened banking clients and other banks. i suggest we should have some facts before rushing to a conclusion, and yet another possibly mistaken conclusion. in his report, to which incidentally our group has made a lot of contributions, mr rasmussen used hbos and northern rock in his speech as reasons for more regulation, but hbos and northern rock were banks, not hedge funds and private equity, and subject to the full rigour of the existing regulatory system for banks, including statutory capital requirements. is it not ironic that the crisis has occurred and spread in the supposedly most highly regulated part of the financial industry? beware sarbanes-oxley!
mr president, the overall objective of the european year 2009 is ‘to promote creativity for all as a driver for innovation and as a key factor for the development of personal, occupational, entrepreneurial and social competences through lifelong learning’. but we are always talking of new legislation. an oppugnant state mired in legislation and bureaucracy stifles creativity and entrepreneurship among its people. belgium, for example, is unlikely ever to produce a joe meek or a richard branson, and, let’s be honest: the singing nun was never really on a par with the beatles or the rolling stones. as the commission sinks into caducity before becoming lost in caliginosity, the great works of european culture will remain as knitted beacons. let us not stifle our artistes with any more legislation, and, as the great ral donner once lamented: ‘you don’t know what you’ve got until you lose it, uh-huh, oh yeah!’
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, these council decisions are part of the process of harmonising our national justice and legal systems into a common eu system. already any eu citizen can be extradited from one eu country to another by means of a european arrest warrant with minimal safeguards. even when a national legal system or national government knows that a gross injustice is being done, it cannot prevent it. under the new rules on trials in absentia, we can now be tried and sentenced in another eu state without even being aware that this has happened, and then face extradition and imprisonment. we can be fined or have our property confiscated, again without our own national legal systems or governments being able to prevent it or protect us. under the lisbon treaty a european public prosecutor is planned, with wide-ranging powers to investigate and prosecute those charged with offences against the union’s interest – aided by europol, whose officials have immunity from prosecution for anything that they do or anything that they say in the course of their duties. and, of course, we have the european union’s own paramilitary police force, the european gendarmerie, being constructed in vicenza, which will have the power to cross borders to suppress civil unrest in eu member states. all this is being done in the name of protecting us from terrorism; but what is actually happening, of course, is the never-ending mission of the european union to increase and entrench its own power and dominion in every area of our national lives. terrorism is indeed a real threat, the single biggest source of which in the world today is the ideology of fundamentalist, literalist and extremist islam. but terrorism should be combated by national governments working in cooperation with each other, not used as an excuse to increase the power of the european union.
mr president, there are fundamental flaws in how the ec is currently proceeding in justice and home affairs, notably the lack of fully transparent and democratic law-making in the absence of the lisbon treaty (i too regret that mr jouyet showed his indifference to our views by leaving, whether he apologised or not) and, secondly, the lack of balance and respect for fundamental rights. both are, unfortunately, fully on display here in the two measures being discussed. the criminalising of ‘public provocation to commit terrorism’ – a vague term – risks casting a chilling effect on free speech when the criminal offence of incitement, which we already have, is perfectly adequate. the other measure gives only weak protection for personal data exchanged ostensibly for law-enforcement purposes, but with massive loopholes. i can inform the house that, in the uk, the data retention directive – that landmark achievement of the uk presidency three years ago – is being used to give hundreds of non-law-enforcement agencies access to personal contact details. local councils use it to check up if parents have lied about living in the catchment area of a popular school – which might be naughty, but is not a major crime. it is disgraceful the way that interior ministers have left a space for europhobes like the uk independence party and british conservatives to castigate the whole eu effort on cross-border crime. we know that a large majority of the european public, including in the uk, supports eu action to catch criminals and terrorists, such as through the european arrest warrant. however, ukip and the tories, who claim to put a high priority on law and order, give a cheery wave goodbye to any criminal who escapes across the channel. we should not allow them to get away with their propaganda, especially because interior ministers are doing their very best to undermine public support for police cooperation by their blinkered approach which gives insufficient attention to civil liberties, be this protection from invasions of privacy or the rights of defendants. eu governments have stupidly allowed mr batten and his ilk a head of steam over the issue of recognition of judgments in absentia by their failure, led by the uk government, to strengthen defence rights. talk about an unholy alliance between the europhobes and a spineless labour government! lastly, i want to ask where the justice ministers are in this whole exercise. they need to get a grip on the interior ministers’ circus and start to construct a real european area of freedom, security and justice. we need the lisbon treaty to get transparency and democracy into this project, and quickly, before the european elections.
mr president, two weeks ago the chairman of the muslim council of great britain addressed a meeting in this building, at which he categorically rejected reciprocity between faiths and demanded that the indigenous population had an obligation to welcome newcomers, and that those newcomers had a right to remain separate. he made no reference whatsoever to weeding out the islamic fundamentalists in his own community, despite knowing – as he must – that muslims, and only muslims, have the knowledge to find and stop their fanatics. it was not scottish rugby players who blew up the tube trains in london, nor welsh farmers, nor even english cricketers. it was a bunch of brainwashed muslim youngsters who were looking for 72 vestal virgins in paradise, believing that they had a god-given right to slaughter non-believers. we are not fighting terrorism. we are fighting a war of religion, and it is about time we faced up to that distinction.
mr president, our open democratic societies are a strength, but their very openness can be exploited to become a vulnerability. it is this aspect which we are discussing today. of course, security is not just some technical process. security and liberty are complementary, and our strongest protection is a united, cohesive society in each of our nations, based on shared democratic values and mutual trust. however, in recent years, our institutions and traditional values have been under constant assault from within and without. at the same time, we have seen the growth of subcultures within our own societies that are scornful of our liberal values, deliberately seeking to establish alternative political and legal structures, sometimes through the use of violence, and sheltering behind our complex and generous legal systems and our liberal view of human rights. the eu often has not helped. unfortunately, it sees every crisis as an opportunity to extend its own powers and rarely asks whether its actions in one area are having a detrimental effect in another. i question, for example, the open-border policy, the lax approach to asylum and immigration and the attempts to introduce the charter of fundamental rights onto the statute book. while i am sure we all wish to find ways of combating the threat of terrorism, i am not at all clear why the eu feels it necessary, with its framework decision, to duplicate action that has already been taken in the council of europe. all eu member states are members of that body, along with 19 other states, and presumably they will already have legislated appropriately. there is, however, an area of council of europe competence which would benefit from review, and i refer to the european convention on human rights (echr). this is a convention that was drawn up in very different circumstances, over 50 years ago. its judicial interpretation often creates an obstacle to the deportation of terrorists from our countries. if we want to do something useful, perhaps we could agree that it would be useful to have a fresh look at the echr.
mr president, i sometimes fear that the fact that this house so frequently debates terrorism reflects a worrying absence of consensus on our response to it. surely the terrorist atrocities perpetrated over decades around the world, including the recent bomb attack in islamabad, should have opened our eyes to its true, evil nature and the need to stand resolutely and unequivocally against the existential threat it poses to western democracy and way of life. i welcome, therefore, eu countries working together to define and inflict heavy criminal penalties on those who incite terrorism. i remember the demonstrations in london that coincided with the publication of cartoons in denmark depicting the prophet mohammed. we, of course, are proud in europe of our rights to free speech and expression, and protesters carrying placards calling for the beheading of those who insult islam clearly crossed the boundary between free speech and hate speech inciting violence. in the uk we have recently been debating limits on pre-trial detention without charge on suspicion of involvement in terrorism. i am personally of the opinion that we need to give the police and security services the resources they need to protect our citizens, subject, of course, to rigid legal safeguards. that is certainly what most people in my country and the rest of europe want, according to opinion polls. furthermore, with regard to data retention, i am often dismayed at the way this house takes such an absolutist rather than a balanced approach to civil liberties. again, provided there are clear safeguarding rules in place on how the information is shared, we need to support our law enforcement authorities. finally, the eu should place hezbollah on the list of proscribed terrorist organisations. not to have done so in the past in the face of prima facie evidence demonstrates an apparent lack of eu resolve that is giving succour to those who would destroy our way of life in a democracy.
mr president, having seen further savage terrorism in recent days in pakistan, spain and jerusalem and, in my own country, several renewed ira terrorist attempts, none of us can be complacent about the vile scourge of terrorism. however, it is naive to think that there is a pan-european panacea. yes, we need effective extradition and, yes, we need effective cooperation, but legislation so harmonised as to reduce it to the lowest common denominator is more of a hindrance than a help. first and foremost these are matters for national decision. the united kingdom, for example, is attempting to provide for 42-day detention, which is more than i think is necessary, but london, not brussels, has the right to make that decision. under the approach in these proposals, we would soon strip away that discretion from member states. that might suit the eu’s expansionist agenda, but it will not defeat terrorism.
mr president, i will be brief. i speak under rule 145 to rebut remarks and comments made about me by dame sarah ludford in her speech in this debate. she said a number of things, but in particular she said that i was ‘a europhobe’ and that in relation to extradition, i would ‘give a cheery wave to criminals who made it to the channel’. i would like to correct her factually. i am not a europhobe. i love the continent of europe, its history, its culture, its achievements as much as anybody, but i am an eu-phobe. i hate the european union, which is anti-democratic and undemocratic. in relation to the european arrest warrant and the trials in absentia, what i want is for an english or scottish court to be able to consider prima facie evidence against a suspect before granting extradition and, indeed, have the power to prevent it. they must be able to decide that there is a proper case to answer and that a fair trial will be given. i do this in order to protect the interests of british citizens, such as exemplified by the case of andrew symeou, a 19-year-old london man who faces extradition to greece on 30 september on a manslaughter charge. the evidence against him is extremely suspect, and no account can be taken of that or the fact that witnesses have been allegedly tortured in order to extract statements from them. i understand dame sarah’s sensitivity on this issue since her party, the liberal democrats, have obviously backed the wrong horse and she fears – quite rightly – the electoral consequences in 2009.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
madam president, i rise under rules 9, 93 and 94, which deal with transparency, to declare that i have an interest in relation to the issues to be voted and so will not be participating in this vote. i similarly declared an interest when we considered this matter in committee and did not participate in the discussion or the vote on that occasion.
i see no objections to that oral amendment. - after the vote:
thank you. we do our best!
madam president, this is a report that gives me the opportunity to mention the city of liverpool, which is in my constituency. it has enjoyed the benefits of being city of culture and has performed extremely well in that role, and the people of liverpool have responded magnificently to it. whilst many of the aims of the european year are laudable in this report, we have to consider the budgetary implications that accompany it. excessive bureaucracy and the focus on state-led efforts to foster what is termed ‘creativity and innovation’ are not really to be welcomed. it would be a much better use of taxpayers’ money if we removed these types of promotional exercises and concentrated simply on giving people real choice of decision-making.
madam president, the european union is a solution in search of a problem. whatever the question is, the answer is always more regulation, and so these recent events in the financial markets have been predictably seized on as a justification for further brussels rules. i am reminded of the situation that pertained after the attacks of 11 september 2001, when a number of proposals for the harmonisation of justice and home affairs, which had been kicking around for years, were repackaged as anti-terrorism measures and, in the febrile atmosphere that followed those terrible attacks, nobody wanted to be seen voting against. similarly, a bunch of legislation for which there is really no proportionate need in remedying the problem is now being repackaged as a measure for financial stability, and it would take a brave mep to risk being seen as a speculator’s friend, as we saw in the result of the vote today. i must say that, looking at the underlying causes of the recent financial problems, it seems to me that ‘too much government’ was the problem, not the solution. interest rates were kept at too low a rate for too long, and that was a problem in europe, in the united states and in japan. if too much government was the problem, it is difficult to see how we can solve that problem by additional regulation at brussels level.
madam president, in many ways i would echo the comments of my good friend and colleague, mr hannan, in relation to the lehne report, because in many ways the lehne report is yet another attempt to impose legislation and regulation on the markets. we should not rush to judgement here. nor should we rush to judgement to impose regulation and legislation in respect of markets as a whole in europe. markets, by their definition, are different. markets in europe, in the different countries, are different, and therefore we should not try to impose a blanket coverage of regulation which would apply to all of them. the essential thing europe and the european union has to remember at all times in these matters is that we are in a global environment. europe and the individual nations of europe are competing with the world, and, if we erect barriers against ourselves, then we will damage our own interests and those of the people we represent.
madam president, this is an important matter. it is probably one of the most important matters that we face in the west today – the threat of international terrorism. i probably depart a little from my own party on this, in that i take the view that, if we have to pay a price in civil liberty to protect the true liberty of our citizens – namely their health, safety and well-being – then that price will have to be paid. during the second world war, measures were taken in my country which were not in accordance with civil liberties, in order to protect the population from the external threat. people accepted it. we face today, in europe and in the civilised world, a threat from those who are not civilised and who do not regard human life as sacred and something to be sanctified. therefore, if we need to have laws to prevent them doing their evil work, then we should have them and have them speedily.
madam president, there is none so blind as those that cannot see. i notice mr hannan and mr sumberg have, unfortunately, left the chamber at this time, but anyone who thinks that there is no financial turmoil should just pick up the newspapers and read, or watch the television. to believe that the rasmussen report and the lehne report did anything else other than try to adequately convey the necessity for us to be able to act and that this has to be done at a collective legislative level is to ignore the truth; it is also to ignore the reality of a global world economy. frankly, sitting back in a little england may help some people relieve their consciences, but it does not help people meet their mortgage payments, it will not help people keep their homes, and it will not keep people in services and in industry. it is only through the european union and through activity of regulation, where we are extremely good, that we will be able to do something about it. it is true that the markets expect us to be delicate, but they do not expect a knee-jerk reaction either. but the fact is that, if we do nothing and just stand still and say nothing, then, frankly, we will in fact be accused of cowardice in the face of strong tumult and crisis.
in writing. − i support katerina batzeli’s report on making 2009 the european year of creativity and innovation. the report not only outlines the initiative in more detail, but also adequately attends to the dangers of such european years becoming pr exercises.
in writing. − this amendment appears to limit the immunity from prosecution of europol officials but it only does so for those operating as part of joint investigation teams. this is a smokescreen to make it appear that europol officials’ immunity will be limited when in fact europol’s powers will be extended after 2010 and the immunity of its officials will be even more far-reaching. i do not believe that europol officials should have any immunity from prosecution whatsoever and therefore i voted against this amendment.
in writing. − augustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra’s report on the status of staff regarding privileges and immunities seeks to clarify pre-existing guidelines on the issue. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − a common european position is needed on the effectiveness, transparency and flexibility of the way development assistance is financed before the doha conference on financing for development in late november. thijs berman’s report goes some way towards helping achieve that goal. i agree that reform is needed to secure greater representation of developing countries to the imf and world bank. indeed, i further agree with the rapporteur’s calls to encourage member states to adequately prepare a timetable to reach the target of 0.7% of europe’s gnp going to public development aid in 2015. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the badia report has much to commend it. the quality of teacher education has direct and important impacts upon our children’s education and eu-wide cooperation to ensure a high standard of teaching is to be encouraged. i do consider, however, that decisions relating to curriculum content and the governance of schools should be taken within the cultural and political context of different nations’ separate education systems. at times the badia report tended towards prescribing issues on an eu-wide basis, and i accordingly abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − maria badia i cutchet’s report has my support. to preserve the high quality of our respective education systems we need to have well-trained teachers. teacher training must develop in tandem with the demands of the modern classroom and i believe that this report recognises this fact.
in writing. − doris pack’s report ‘the bologna process and student mobility’ is a constructive contribution to the debate on student mobility. the ability for students across the eu to be able to move freely between europe’s borders must remain a core element of the bologna process. students from all backgrounds should have the opportunity to benefit from the wealth of cultural and intellectual opportunities the eu offers. i therefore voted in favour of the report’s recommendations.
in writing. − the rasmussen report comes at an appropriate time in the week following the financial turmoil which saw scotland's oldest bank being sacrificed by, in the words of scotland's first minister, "spivs and speculators". the scottish financial sector has been let down badly by the uk's regulators and i support tighter regulation of the market. i voted in favour of the report which contains a number of recommendations which are worthy of consideration and look forward to the day when independent scottish regulators will work in this area in cooperation with our eu partners.
in writing. − colleagues, the recent financial crisis has many victims, of which hbos – who last week were taken over by lloyds tsb – was one. to see such high-profile casualties is not only destabilising for the world economy, but for those who entrust their money and their future to these companies. what the world has learnt from the last few weeks is that our approach to market regulation is outdated. we need global measures to regulate a globalised financial system. the eu and the european parliament therefore has a significant role to play in resolving the root causes of the crisis and must act responsibly by voting in favour of mr rasmussen's report. in encouraging hedge funds and private equity firms to be more prudent and transparent in their dealings, the eu will help construct a solid framework that will help restore much-needed stability to the financial sector.
in writing. − i support the general approach of klaus-heiner lehne’s report on the transparency of institutional investors. recent events in the financial markets point to the need for global action to improve market regulation. well-functioning markets depend on the respect of transparency across the board, and this report is a step in the right direction. i voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. − gyula hegyi’s report on amending regulation (ec) no 999/2001 as regards the implementing powers conferred on the commission seeks to propose amendments to the regulation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathy – a deadly disease spread by infected meat. updating the regulatory procedure associated with this issue to one that involves the european parliament more is a positive step. the report therefore has my backing.
in writing. − ukip considers terrorism as a major problem. we simply do not believe that the eu should decide about the actions to be taken to fight terrorism. we feel nation states are best placed to decide appropriate security measures trough intergovernmental cooperation.
in writing. − british conservatives supported the report whilst having some reservations with regard to the necessity of the eu’s involvement in this area, given that there is already in existence a council of europe convention covering the same issues. we favour close cooperation between member states but also in the context of a global approach to the war on terror. we are, however, unconvinced of the effectiveness of ‘one size fits all’ approaches at a european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr hammerstein's amendment 1 to his own report. we have today discovered that next month the european parliament will once again embark upon its monthly trek to strasbourg at a cost of billions of euros to the taxpayer. we must end this travelling circus, and parliament itself must be at the heart of the debate.
in writing. − i welcome the report’s acknowledgement of the rising significance of the committee on petitions. this year has seen a 50% increase in the number of petitions received compared to 2006. i also recognise the rapporteur’s concerns about the length of time taken by the commission and the court of justice to resolve cases referred to the committee. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the failure of parliament to support amendment 1 on the issue of the one seat is disappointing. this is the second strasbourg part-session which we have had in brussels, and we have proved that we can meet effectively and vote in brussels. we no longer need to hold sessions in strasbourg. i encourage colleagues to sign written declaration 75 calling on parliament to meet in brussels and end strasbourg sessions.
in writing. − this report highlights the key role mountainous regions play in terms of the environment, agriculture and even culture and tourism. most importantly, it is recognised that these areas are essential for maintaining pockets of biodiversity and the implementation of a forestry strategy. however, these unique areas can also present significant challenges for people living and working in them, especially in terms of infrastructure, communications and high production costs. it is for this reason that these areas deserve a coordinated and integrated strategy, much like the approach which relates to the european union's coastal regions. of course, sheep farming is intricately linked to agriculture in these areas, and it must be recognised that sheep grazing is especially important for their environmental stability. however, although this industry is currently facing many challenges, the commission has aggravated the situation with its recent proposal on electronic tagging. moreover, although special assistance for sheep farmers is urgently required, unfortunately it does not seem to be forthcoming.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues welcome the focus that this report places on mountain and hill farming, which does need specific measures to ensure that environmentally beneficial farming practices can continue in such regions. unfortunately the ebner report calls for a number of measures using primarily the first pillar, including the introduction of a dairy cow premium for mountain areas and for the upper limit of resources under article 69 to be raised to 20%. we do not favour the introduction of new coupled subsidies within the first pillar. they are not consistent with the ongoing reforms of agricultural policy and do not offer good value for money for the european taxpayer. the challenges faced by these regions can best be met through rural development funding in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. for this reason we will not be supporting this report.
in writing. − i support this report looking at promoting sustainable development in mountainous regions. the move to a more market-orientated cap means that mountainous regions, where agricultural production is less competitive, are not only facing new challenges but also, i believe, new opportunities. mountainous regions may not be able to adapt as easily to competitive conditions and may entail extra costs so that they cannot produce very competitive products at low prices, but the focus needs to be on exploiting the resources available, including the beauty of the natural landscape to attract tourists, and exploiting the potential competitive advantage of these regions, including the array of regional and traditional products, the wealth of traditional knowledge and manufacturing procedures, which give their products competitive edge. i differ from some of my colleagues here in the european parliament in that i do not believe the solution to the challenges facing mountainous regions is to throw more cap money at these regions. where there are clear public benefits to supporting farming in mountainous regions, such as environmental benefits, i believe that public funding under the rural development pillar would be more appropriate. exploiting the potential of mountainous areas is key to their sustainable development, not simply throwing more public money at them.
madam president, i represent scotland, a nation with a long maritime history and a nation with tremendous potential for its future. scotland is geographically very well-placed to be developed as a maritime transport hub between europe and the rest of the world and we have considerable scope to develop additional short sea routes, both for passengers and for freight. improved safety is therefore of considerable importance to us, having had our own share of serious accidents involving shipping in scottish waters. the carrying of hazardous materials must, of course, be transparently declared and properly controlled. crews should have the right to be treated fairly with due consideration for their safety. we must learn from past failings and ensure that independent investigations are carried out when accidents do occur. the scottish government recently announced that a new operator is to resume a ferry service between rosyth and zeebrugge. i would hope that if we are to move traffic from roads to the sea that the european union can assist more proactively in the development of such ferry routes.
madam president, what is this: a bridge over troubled waters? for the uk it was peaceful waters until the cfp got to work and near destroyed our fishing industry. now you want to ruin our maritime trade. seemingly the sterckx and vlasto reports just aim to use the automatic identification system, with galileo, to plot ship movements in eu waters. that is spying on the movement of every ship in uk waters, in our harbours, at anchor off our shores, no matter what nationality. the details will be connected to an eu data centre, which like any database is prone to security lapses. the imo fears that data of shipping information with cargo details could, in the wrong hands, endanger ships trading with europe. collecting data leads to control systems and the vessels of our trading partners, especially of our commonwealth, could be ordered away in an eu trade war. for a nation that relies upon maritime trade to feed itself, this really is the end of independence. the eu would decide whether britain eats or starves. the uk has the greatest interest in these reports, because we trade around the world – we have been doing it for centuries – and every uk mep represents a region – bar one – with a coastline. meanwhile, as the eu erects its protective trade barriers, all its member states, whether or not they have a coastline, get to have a vote. i will encourage my government to reject this rotten proposal, for british maritime trade and global maritime trade are under threat from bureaucrats you would not trust with a rowing boat. worse, according to vlasto, the eu will be able to refuse ships access to our waters. so the eu could decide if foreign warships are permitted to visit – those of our friends and allies perhaps? a nuclear-powered ship might be rejected for political correctness, which could apply to the royal navy’s nuclear submarines. now, they helped to keep the soviet union at bay and guaranteed the freedom you now enjoy. well, if the eu goes on meddling with powder kegs like georgia or ukraine, you might just need that sort of protection again. what price political correctness then?
mr president, i address my remarks particularly to the presidency of the council. i am all in favour of robust international action to deal with piracy on the high seas. i congratulate the french government on the action by french commandos earlier this month. you may recall that in the days when britain truly had an ethical foreign policy the royal navy swept the oceans clear of pirates. it blew them out of the water and we got rid of the slave trade as well. now we seem helpless. our navies have been run down and we are frightened to act lest we fall foul of some aspect of human rights legislation, or become embroiled in lengthy judicial procedures. the eu response is to try and invent another military operation by setting up a committee, a so-called eu coordination cell, which says it will coordinate military operations in the seas off the horn of africa. but, there is already a military operation in those waters. it is combined task force 150, involving the us fifth fleet and warships from other nato navies, led by a dane at the moment. i have a question to the council presidency. why is the eu getting involved? this is a job for nato and, more to the point, what are european allies in nato going to do to ensure that more warships are provided for this task? they have rules of engagement that make them effective, and there is international law in place at un level to deal with captured pirates without inflicting them on our own countries.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me start by thanking all of my colleagues in the committee on international trade and in the committee on legal affairs for their excellent cooperation on my report on the international tropical timber agreement (itta) 2006. the wide political consensus we found is very reassuring, given the extreme importance of the issue of forests, timber and trade. you may note that almost a year has elapsed between the referral of this agreement to parliament and this debate this evening. that definitely does not represent any underestimate on the part of the committee on international trade as to the importance of this issue; rather it stems from our view that the agreement requires parliamentary assent rather than simple consultation, not least because we have some strong and specific views on the agreement which we believe should be taken into account. the chairman of the trade committee, mr markov, will explain further the detailed procedural efforts we made to get a greater role for parliament on this file and he will also, i am sure, outline the very disappointing response we had from the council in terms of delay and ultimate refusal. i said that parliament has some strong and specific views on the agreement. without doubt it does represent an improvement on the older itta agreement of 20 years ago which, although it was billed as an agreement promoting both trade and sustainability, is in reality very much about trade and not very much about sustainability. maybe that explains why one of the key signatories to the agreement, indonesia, has irrevocably lost about three quarters of its forests and why half of all logging in regions like the amazon, the congo basin, south-east asia, is still done illegally. so, while the new agreement is an improvement on the former one, and we therefore offer support to the community’s ratification of it, this should be understood as very much a reluctant endorsement of an unsatisfactory agreement. itta 2006 falls well short of what is required to address the problem of the loss of tropical forests. for example, it still defines as its objective the promotion of the expansion of international trade, before moving on to speak in just a few words about sustainability. again, if you look at the voting structure of the organisation behind the agreement, it gives more votes to producer countries that export more timber, and awards more votes to import-heavy consumer countries. in other words, for all the rhetoric about sustainability, the system is still designed to give greatest influence to those who trade the most. so our report calls on the commission to begin already to prepare for the next round of itta negotiations to secure a greatly improved successor agreement. parliament’s assent to any future agreement will depend on a radical change in the underlying objectives of the agreement towards the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests, with trade in tropical timber taking place only to the extent that it is consistent with that objective. that means that the commission should propose appropriate financing mechanisms for countries that are willing to limit their timber exports, as well as proposing a major reorganisation of the itta voting system. but we also have another demand to make of the commission, and that is to do with the long-awaited legislative proposal on further measures to combat illegal logging. we absolutely have to see this without delay. it was under preparation at the start of the year, it was supposed to have been voted on by the commission in may and has been repeatedly delayed due, we understand, to industry pressure. this is despite numerous expressions of wide political support from parliament for the proposal. the last information we have is that the proposal is to be voted by the college of commissioners on 15 october – i would be grateful for any confirmation of that – and i would call very strongly on our commissioners to take their responsibilities very seriously, because this issue of deforestation is a massively important one; it is one that concerns the whole parliament. i look forward to a very strong and optimistic response from the commission today.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, let me say at the very start of this debate that the socialist group congratulates caroline lucas on her report, truly supports it and will vote for all the amendments that she proposes in her report. i welcome the fact that the revised international tropical timber agreement places a greater emphasis on sustainable management – for example by tackling illegal logging – and on the restoration and conservation of degraded forests. as others have said, the preservation of tropical forests is vital in maintaining biodiversity and in our fight against climate change because, as we now know very well, tropical forests play a central role in removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. currently the felling of these forests is responsible for 20% of global carbon emissions. i share caroline lucas’s objective in trying to ensure that the revised agreement does in reality give priority to social and environmental issues rather than solely focusing on increasing trade in tropical timber. of course, developing countries must have the resources to protect, restore and sustainably manage the forests. the agreement makes a provision for funding based on thematic programmes, in addition to project funding. i hope that the thematic programmes can focus on issues such as governance and poverty reduction, and that member states can contribute generously to these programmes. i share the disappointment that both caroline and helmuth markov have expressed regarding the fact that parliament has not been granted the assent procedure on this agreement, and i share the view that we should have been given that procedure. i hope that we can count on the commission to submit to parliament an annual report analysing – and ‘analysing’ is the key word – the implementation of the agreement. i understand what the commission has told us tonight, that the international tropical timber organisation publishes its own annual report, but we want to hear the commission’s response to that document. on the subject of bilateral agreements, earlier this month the eu signed an agreement with ghana to prevent the import of illegal timber into eu markets. this agreement will in theory ensure that the basic rules of forest conservation, such as sound monitoring by government of timber felling, are respected – and at present, we have to note, the ghanaian forests are being felled at an annual rate of almost 2%. if this bilateral agreement works, it can bring benefits to both parties. in ghana, where illegal logging has reduced the rainforest by up to 25% of its original size in under 50 years, the agreement will help to secure the future of its timber industry – its fourth most profitable industry. in the european union, where consumers are becoming increasingly environmentally conscious, we can ensure that the timber we import from ghana is fully certified as clean. although this deal may take a few years yet to become fully operational, i think it is a promising start, and i support the commission’s plans to reach similar agreements with other african countries, such as gabon, cameroon and liberia. finally, i want to reiterate a point made by caroline: this agreement is a modest start; it is better than nothing, but it does not go far enough, and we need further proposals from the commission and from the international community.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, thank you to the members who have spoken. i would first like to recall that the 2006 agreement aims to promote the expansion of international trade in tropical timber from forests that are sustainably managed and harvested in accordance with the law and to encourage the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests. so i would also like to say that it is the only international instrument which is multilateral in nature and which covers the field of forests, particularly tropical forests, in a legally agreed framework. the agreement also affects other forests indirectly, but in a less obvious, more marginal way. what is interesting is that the agreement establishes a framework for cooperation which allows all forestry initiatives to be combined. the commission intends to be an active participant in this agreement, with the community's share in the administrative budget, and we hope that it will also be possible to finance major actions through thematic programmes. but of course all this should not exclude, on the contrary, bilateral agreements within the framework of the flegt programme. you pointed that out and you're right. we must introduce the problem of respect for tropical forests into these bilateral agreements, which will increasingly be the result of a more comprehensive approach. it is true that the agreement we have discussed this evening is a modest beginning - to use the expression of one of you - but it should be the starting point for a much more effective strategy than in the past. in principle, the text on illegal slaughter and the implementing regulation on flegt are scheduled for october and i think that this will enable the commission to meet the expectations you have expressed here. so once again i thank mrs lucas, and of course i thank the author of the question, mr markov, and i will be extremely faithful in conveying all the remarks and all the sensitivity of parliament to this problem, which is indeed a major problem, as you have all stressed. it is a heritage of humanity that is essential for the future. and i liked the phrase "the cradle of biodiversity". it's obvious, forests are the cradle of diversity. this protection of forests is a major action which involves the future of the planet. i therefore thank the european parliament for having really embarked on this path and i hope that, together with the commission, we will be able to gradually meet the expectations which i have just mentioned. i thank all the members once again, and in particular your rapporteur.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their comments and support, but i do want to have a few words with commissioner barrot in particular. i hope you have heard the impatience and the frustration that has been expressed right across this house tonight about the endless delays to this long-awaited legislative proposal on measures to combat illegal logging. please take back to your colleagues the fact that this parliament believes that it is utterly unacceptable that that legislative proposal is constantly delayed. i am very sorry that you have not been able to answer a question that has been put to you at least three times by people here tonight about when we might expect that proposal. i think it plays very badly with the public as well. i think it looks very bad that the eu is unable to get its own house in order. we like to talk about the political leadership that we like to think that we have in the world. if that political leadership means anything, then it should mean that we stop the sale and the import of illegal timber into the eu, and we want to see much more urgent action to achieve that. while i have the floor, i would just like to raise one other issue. many colleagues have mentioned the link between deforestation and climate change, and i would like to add a final point about the climate package that colleagues will be voting on in the coming weeks. you will know that deforestation is a key issue when it comes to the emissions trading system, and i want to urge colleagues not to be persuaded by arguments in favour of including so-called ‘sink credits’ in the emissions trading system. we held a lunchtime debate about this today in which we underlined why putting deforestation into the emissions trading system is a bad idea for a host of reasons, not least that it would swamp the whole emissions trading system. there are big problems around the verification, monitoring, reporting and liability regimes. we certainly do need to tackle deforestation as part of the climate package, but we are arguing that that should be done by using the auctioning revenues to properly invest in those countries that have that issue. commissioner, please make autumn the moment when the eu really starts to get credible on forestry. please assure us that you will bring forward that proposal as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the whole climate change programme has given the eu yet another excuse to flex its muscles and show the world how important it is, claiming that this is an issue that nation states cannot deal with alone. the 20 20 20 slogan is a typical example of a catchy phrase to work with: 20% of energy in the eu from renewable sources; a 20% reduction in carbon emissions – all by the year 2020. but you are missing the most important point: is any of this necessary? we were told recently by the ipcc that 2 500 scientists were all in agreement that co2 was responsible for global warming and that we humans were the culprits. al gore’s infamous film confirmed that view. since then, however, over 30 500 scientists and climatologists have signed the oregon petition and the manhattan declaration which directly challenges the ipcc conclusions with some very compelling evidence. so whilst we are urged to believe the ipcc’s 2 500 scientists, we are being told to completely ignore the 30 500 scientists who are painting a different picture. the eu is persuading nations across the world to spend billions of taxpayers’ money, at the very time when the world is facing dire financial problems, on something that might not only be totally unnecessary, but could well prove to be counter-productive if the latest evidence of global cooling proves to be correct. we must have a full and open debate to prove exactly who is right. what do supporters of the ipcc’s position have to fear? you will no doubt be pleased to hear that this will be my very last speech in this parliament since i retire after this session.
mr president, when we last had this discussion with commissioner barroso about the work programme, i said it was good that the commission tried to avoid what i called ‘end of term-itis’. it is, however, very difficult for parliament up front of the european elections. each of the groups will want to stamp its own imprint on the programme that goes forward. that is only natural, but we also have to try and speak to you in this dialogue with one voice so that some clarity comes forward. you will find that the group of liberals and democrats has joined the joint resolution, but also we pick things from other groups as well, to try and provide what is often our role: balance in the house and some equilibrium. these are really unnerving times for europe’s citizens. everybody is uncertain about the future with the global financial turmoil, which brings worries about debt, unemployment, health costs, pensions, and it breeds an atmosphere where fairness and equality can fly out of the window when there is a scramble for everybody to save their own position. climate change brings its own worries about adapting our lifestyles and about fuel costs in a very different world. this time of global problems should, of course, be a time when the eu comes into its own because we have a multinational reach, but as liberals and democrats we would say, ok, let us use that reach, but it should not reach too far. it should produce an umbrella, it should produce some control, but it should also give individual choice so that individual citizens can begin to feel in control again in these times of uncertainty. so, yes to greater oversight of financial markets and players, but also yes to greater consumer choice and greater consumer redress. we do not want another equitable life in europe. yes to greater labour mobility, yes to greater joined-up social security, but yes also to fairness and non-discrimination. yes to greater choice in health and to patient mobility. so, let us give our citizens a choice in how they live their lives. if you are worried about the future, the one way you can begin to feel more secure about it is if you feel you can do something about it, you feel you have control, and that will be the theme running through the choices made by liberals and democrats in this resolution. yes to europe, but yes also to individual choice and empowerment.
mr president, i would like to make a few comments on this, and i welcome the opportunity to do so. i want to speak on the situation as regards the solidarity fund. i am a supporter of this fund, because i think it has the ability to bring europe and brussels closer to the people. europe is now 27 member states, so it does not really matter if it is floods in my region in northern ireland or forest fires in greece, or spain, or portugal. you see some terrible instances where people have almost been wiped out. so we are not talking about giving them a lot of money, but we are giving them some hope to restart again. i certainly would like to make an appeal that this solidarity fund is kept and supported, and please do not make it too complicated. keep it simple, where either a national or a regional government can apply and can go back to their local area and tell the people that this fund is coming from europe and europe is giving them some support. so let us make it simple, keep it simple, but let us not do away with this solidarity fund.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the eu strategic partnership with democratic, secular india is of critical importance in these dangerous and unpredictable times, as this is a country that shares our values and aspirations. we face common challenges: the fight against terrorism – and in this context i hereby call for europol to grant india privileged status in the exchange of intelligence and the fight against terrorism – the need to protect the environment including the issue of climate change, and the importance of managing the benefits of globalisation. the recent bombings in delhi have underlined the serious threat india faces from islamist terrorism. mindful of the instability in india’s neighbouring countries, from pakistan to sri lanka, it should be obvious to all of us that we should do our utmost to support india, both as a regional power in south asia, but also one which plays a major, constructive and global role in multilateral fora such as saarc, asean and the un, where it is high time that india be granted a permanent seat on the security council. our resolution rightly expresses concerns about the recent killings of christians in the orissa province and unrest in jammu and kashmir, calling for those responsible to be punished, as human rights and the rule of law are at the forefront of the eu’s strategic partnership with india. this situation is in stark contrast to the eu’s dealings with the people’s republic of china, which considers itself immune from our pleas to respect the human rights of its citizens. i do hope that the forthcoming summit will solidify the flourishing relationship between india and the eu, especially in the field of commerce. as co-president and founder of the friends of india and draftsman in the foreign affairs committee for the eu-india free trade agreement, i want to see rapid steps towards establishing a free trade relationship, to our mutual benefit, with large foreign direct investment now flowing from india to the eu for the first time. but my group, the ppe-de, also wants to see enhanced political cooperation in the many challenges, such as the current issue of global financial instability, that we both face for the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is always a pleasure to speak on matters which will enhance the steady growth of one of the most important international relationships in the globe, that between the european union and the republic of india. we call, in our resolution, for those involved in the summit to explore further ways of upgrading this relationship, and we look forward to concrete results which will be reported back to this parliament. it is a critical time for the summit. we paid tribute in our resolution to the september victims of terrorism in india, including those killed in the assault on the indian embassy in kabul. but today, surely, we must also pay tribute to those heroes who saved lives in islamabad, and we must remember that india lies at the heart of a region that is in considerable security difficulties. it is proper that the wish in our resolution that there should be greater intelligence-sharing should be taken up and honoured, and all efforts to support india in her fight against terrorism with us should be supported – including, we believe, a seat on the united nations security council. in our resolution we call also for a peaceful future for the former princely state of jammu and kashmir, on both sides of the border and now split into two nations. peace comes, as we know so well with the european union, with employment – with jobs – and it is particularly pleasant to learn that india is at present, in jammu and kashmir, building the longest railway tunnel in the globe, which will be nearly 11 km long, as part of a 148-km long section of track. this will be the longest in the world, 95% complete, which gives 3 900 new jobs of direct employment and, i am sure, many thousands more to come. and culture: we call, too, for greater links with culture. this is the year of dialogue, and india has much to teach the european union on this. we call for more people-to-people dialogue, and i am sure that is the way forward. in conclusion, i urge colleagues to support this excellent resolution.
mr president, as chair of parliament’s india delegation, i really welcome this debate. i would like to stress the central importance of continued and frequent dialogue between india and europe on many issues that benefit from a shared approach – both at council and commission level, but also at parliamentary level – so i welcome the group that has been set up in the indian parliament, and i hope they will be coming to the european parliament in the very near future. on our resolution, whilst it makes clear the values that europe and india hold dear on commitment to democracy, pluralism, the rule of law and multilateralism, it is key that we are natural partners. i do believe our resolution should have focused more on major issues such as terrorism, climate change and the economic strengthening of this partnership, which i hope this summit will go some way towards tackling. i also would like to give my deepest sympathies to the families and victims of the recent bomb attacks which have taken place in india. i think, for this reason, we need to acknowledge that both europe and india have many enemies who want to destroy our shared values. this summit should be an opportunity to deepen our ties, but i think we have to recognise that progress so far has been slow and the joint action plan needs more resources in order to achieve the ambitions that we have given ourselves. in conclusion i would just say that in many friendly relationships we can have constructive criticisms, but it is a responsibility of both sides to ensure that this is balanced. so criticism of india’s difficulties and failings must be balanced by full and frank admission of our own. we are right to condemn the poor treatment of minorities, but europe must also be mindful of our own problems with intercommunal violence and our own unsatisfactory record in some areas on race relations.
mr president, i, as a long-standing rapporteur on this issue within this parliament, welcome the eu-india summit, which is due to take place very soon. i see india in many ways as a natural partner for the european union. we must use this summit to make progress, and i welcome the council and commission statements that have been made today. but i have to say, as a rapporteur, that too much time has been taken to get to where we are today. it is now time that we have delivery. i hear comments made by so many of my colleagues today pertaining to the issue of human rights and religious freedoms. i remind them that this house fought very hard to have a human-rights clause included in all of our free-trade agreements. we, commissioner, must underline our commitment to that clause. so, whether it is thousands of disappeared or mass graves in jammu and kashmir, or the murder of christians in orissa and attacks upon them, our commitments to human rights must remain absolute and committed. concerning the fta: we now need delivery. a comprehensive bilateral between us and india is not just of importance to us and india but is of global significance.
rapporteur. − mr president, i know that i will not be popular for making a long speech at this time, but my two fellow-rapporteurs, with whom i have worked very closely as a team, have made short statements so i want to keep the team spirit together. i would just like to say that there are more amendments in my report because my committee has been more ambitious in the improvements it wanted to make to the commission proposal. i ask for your support to ensure that we have confident, well-informed consumers for electronic communications, who are also secure and know that their personal data is protected. i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee who worked with me to put together some really big compromise amendments which we will pass today. i would like particularly to thank alexander alvaro and the civil liberties committee, with whom we worked very closely, for their part on the e-privacy directive. i would like all of you to give us a huge majority for this so that, when we come to negotiate with the commission and council, we will do our very best for europe’s consumers.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, because i believe it will go a long way towards creating the competition that the european electronic communication industry really needs. for too long, british telecommunication companies have struggled in other parts of europe against enterprises, because they are still effectively run as a monopoly. spectrum trading has created a significant amount of revenue for the uk government, which has been successfully reinvested, but the advantage of this report is that it introduces principles of service, technology and neutrality, which, by foregoing the practice of insisting on the service that spectrums are used for and the technological standards used, will go even further towards ensuring large companies do not dominate the market. in the uk, bt has come a long way from nationalised telecommunication provider to a successful regulated company. however, within my own constituency, i still see problems associated with the dominance of large service providers. particularly problematic are rural areas, where consumers suffer because they are deemed too commercially unviable to be given adequate broadband coverage. i hope the report’s determination to see these disparities solved will be put into practice.
in writing. − costas botopoulos' report 'amendment to rule 121 of parliament's rules of procedure on proceedings before the court of justice' deals with a minor modification of the rules to parliamentary procedure. i therefore voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. − representing scotland, i recognise the importance of maritime transport and believe that this sector is one which has immense potential for future development. it is vital that adequate measures are taken to maximise safety at sea and to prevent accidents; accordingly this package, which will serve to prevent repeat accidents occurring, is one which i welcome.
in writing. − the costa report deals with important issues for all maritime regions. it is vital that the eu is serious about improving safety standards at sea whilst not placing unrealistic burdens on carriers. i fully support the notion that national authorities and port authorities play a vital role in identifying risks involved in this area and am on the whole satisfied with the measures adopted by this house today.
in writing. − i am in support of this report from the parliament looking at ship inspections and survey organisations and i am in favour of the other parliament reports which, along with this one, make up the maritime package. the issue of the two ‘missing’ dossiers, on civil liability and flag states, needs to be resolved by the council one way or another, so it is important that parliament keeps the pressure on by including them collectively in the sterckx report on vessel traffic monitoring, the vlasto report on port state control and this report. much work has been done, and i feel that agreement on the five dossiers we have voted on today could be easily reached, however without civil liability and without flag states we will not be able to move any further forward. the council must find a solution to their internal stalemate or else we will not be able to deliver a safer maritime sector to the citizens of the eu.
in writing. − the telecoms industry is rapidly evolving. consequently, new measures are required to preserve and enhance consumer protection and the rights of the telecoms user. catherine trautmann's report on electronic communications networks and services aims to encourage the development of the next generation of telecommunications networks in europe. i believe this to be a positive contribution to the advancement of telecoms regulation that will promote investment in new communications infrastructure and strengthen consumer rights. my vote reflects this view.
in writing. − i welcome pilar del castillo's report on the european electronic communications market authority. the report's vision for a board of european regulators that acts as a bridge between both the commission and national regulatory authorities is one that adequately accounts for the complexity of the market and its ever-expanding nature. this is reflected in my vote.
in writing. − spectrum is a finite resource in the telecommunications industry. with member states set to switch to entirely digital television broadcasts by 2012, more spectrum will become available. consequently how we use it needs careful consideration. i believe patrizia toia's report on the common approach to the use of spectrum released by the digital switchover recognises the competing demands for spectrum and accounts for the issues of service and technology neutrality when allocating new licences. i therefore voted in support of her recommendations.
in writing. − what malcolm harbour's report shows quite emphatically is that internet and phone users are currently getting a raw deal. in these tough economic times consumers need to be confident that they are getting value for money. the proposals in the report mean that customers will be better informed and their personal data, be it online or off, will be more secure. the stipulation that disabled users receive equivalent access to the internet and other communication services is also essential to ensure that everyone benefits from today's digital age. i voted in support of the report.
in writing. − i was happy to support my colleague ms lucas’s report on the itta. millions of hectares of tropical forest are lost annually and the resultant carbon emissions are bound to have a drastic effect on the planet. in future the eu must ensure that it plays a lead role in minimising destructive and unnecessary practices.
in writing. − i welcome ms lucas’s report on the international tropical timber agreement 2006. a serious approach to preserving the environment requires an effective framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy development regarding the world timber economy. the eu needs to support conservation, reforestation and the restoration of degraded forest land. i believe this report helps set the eu on the right track towards achieving a sustainable timber economy and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are extremely supportive of much that is contained in this resolution. we strongly support the calls for a reduction in administrative burdens, the pursuit of the lisbon strategy on growth and jobs, support for smes, further progress on completing the single market, measures to boost consumer rights, further action on climate change, cross-border health care initiatives and boosting relations with the united states. however, we cannot support the text on the ratification of the lisbon treaty, the call for a common immigration policy, the call for a common asylum policy or the call for the creation of a european external action service.
in writing. − there is still a need to promote children’s rights. currently there is too little being done to tackle child poverty across the eu. one in five children lives on the brink of poverty in the eu – that is one too many. i am pleased that parliament has rejected the commission’s work programme for 2009. we need to do more to promote decent work in order to tackle poverty across the eu.
madam president, the financial crisis rages on and euro-zone countries are facing recession. the answer, we are repeatedly told, is that we need more regulation to make the financial sector work better. but we have a problem now, and changing the rules after the problem has arisen is not going to help us with that problem. i urge members to consider a completely different reaction to the current economic difficulties. they are a signal that we cannot continue as we are and that, thanks to borrowing that has been too cheap and imports that have been too cheap, we have all been living above our means and we cannot go on consuming at the same rate. adjustment will be painful, but it is necessary, and in these hard times there is another message that is even more salient but will not be heard in these institutions. it is that the eu cannot continue with its massive legislative programmes in the name of health and safety, consumer protection, social equality, for instance, for the overriding effect of all these schemes is to add costs and to crush the productive activity on which our very prosperity depends. in these hard times, the one message that should be heard is that european countries can no longer afford the european union, its institutions and its immense outpourings of legislation.
mr president, let us hope that the american proposals for purchases of toxic assets do work, because, if they do not, the contagion will almost certainly spread over here. i would like assurance from mr jouyet and mr almunia that we really do have our defences in place. do we have our lenders of last resort ready to meet the very worst which might occur in such a circumstance? we are moving from a liquidity problem to a solvency problem. it is true that, in due course, we will have to review our regulatory defences, but this cannot and should not be done precipitately, in the heat of the crisis. we would risk overreacting, imposing unnecessary, wrongly directed, over-draconian conditions which would only harm the prospects for investment in our economies and jobs for the future. the most vital thing, which we must bring about immediately, is the restoration of confidence. mr almunia, you mentioned the word several times. let us see how we can set about it. i would urge that the leaders of the world’s most important economies of america, europe, the middle and far east meet together within days and assure the world unequivocally that whatever is necessary to douse the flames will be provided unequivocally wherever those flames may erupt. only when the flames and embers are extinguished can we turn to post-mortems as to how this happened and what is needed to avoid it happening again. confidence is the vital base on which a vibrant financial system and a vibrant global economy rests. it is now up to the political leaders of the highest level – a summit indeed – of the free-market economies to come together – no excuses, no holding back, no arguments – to take full responsibility for restoring confidence.
author. − mr president, i am sorry the socialists have chosen to vent their old prejudices about profits and social issues in what is, essentially, an economic and industrial question. clearly, oil price rises are serious for the real economy – especially any volatility or instability in those prices – but let us remember the lessons that we learned from the 1970s. those lessons include the fact that higher prices will encourage more exploration and the development of resources. they will discourage excessive consumption, and they will drive efficiency. i submit the issue of fuel poverty is an important one, but it should be tackled via social security measures and not through market distortions such as seeking to cap prices. let us also remember that prices can come down as well as rise, and that markets always tend to overshoot before settling down at a realistic level. establishing a truly competitive market is an essential prerequisite for pursuing other policy objectives. this prices issue underlines the fundamentals of eu energy policy and the eu energy situation – the three pillars, namely: the essential need for truly competitive markets – markets which will deliver the lowest prices and the most efficient services; the security of supply issues in our dependence on imported fuels; and the convergence of sustainability objectives with the other two elements of our policy. let us beware throwing out the baby with the bathwater because we are concerned about price rises last summer and forget that prices come down as well as go up.
mr president, there are going to be radical changes in the way the eu produces and consumes its energy. this has been based on a three-pronged strategy by the commission: security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. but the commission left out a fundamental part of this important debate, namely the issue of affordability. since the publication of the green paper on energy, socialists in this parliament have been asking for consumers to be put right back into the driving seat. we want to see energy poverty as a part of this debate. so far in the eu there are no national definitions and there is no data collection, so we have no idea of the scale of this problem. we know that energy prices have been rising exponentially and they are hitting the most vulnerable in our society the hardest. i would like to give fair warning to the council that, in the negotiations on the electricity and gas directives that we are about to begin, the issue of energy poverty will be fundamental to our agreement. we are not going to step on your toes. we are asking for domestic action on this – not community action – but we do expect action for the poorest people in the eu on energy poverty.
mr president, among the projects that the eu has encouraged is the single electricity market on the island of ireland. can the commission explain why it is not working for consumers in northern ireland and why, instead of stability and price savings, we have seen a massive 52% hike since january of this year and an ever-widening gap with prices prevailing in the rest of the united kingdom, where in the same period the price rise was 29%? big in itself, but a lot less than 52%. will the commission investigate the failure of this scheme to deliver the promise of minister dodds, when he launched it, of efficiency savings and enhanced competition to help minimise the wholesale cost of electricity, with the vast bulk of the benefits, he said, going to the consumer? for my constituents, less than a year on, that rings very hollow indeed. in particular, will the commission investigate the contribution to the non-delivery of the single electricity market of the failure adequately to address the dominance of the esb in the southern market and the resulting lack of competition, which of course is the imperative to success in any single electricity market?
mr president, during this debate colleagues from the socialist and green benches have referred to speculation and how unacceptable that is in terms of energy prices, and i agree with them. i would ask them also to reflect on the political context of energy pricing, and in particular on the career of former german chancellor gerhard schroeder, currently employed by gazprom, who quite clearly is pursuing an interest which is nuclear-free, but as ari vatanen has reminded us, is not free of russian politics. i should like to ask the council if it could explain in its reply the route map towards achieving a common energy policy in the eu, giving the timescale. and i should like to ask the commissioner whether he has produced a table for the council of relative costings of oil and gas, for example from russia, as opposed to liquefied natural gas from qatar, nuclear energy, and all the others, because it seems to me that our governments are not actually producing energy at the prices that the consumers would want. they are pursuing their own political interests.
the next item is question time (b6-0462/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
does the commission accept that under the treaty – as opposed to the stability pact – the 3% is not a limit, it is a reference value? the commission’s report on any member state that exceeds that reference value has to take account – and i quote article 104(3) of the treaty – ‘of all other relevant factors including the medium-term economic and budgetary position of the member states’. does he not think that in the last few days and weeks the economic positions of member states have necessarily changed, and perhaps warrant an extra degree of flexibility?
question no 36 by olle schmidt (h-0668/08) subject: mortgage crisis and financial regulations during the spring, there were further economic problems and strains in the global financial markets, caused particularly by the spreading mortgage crisis. with both fannie mae and freddy mac now receiving capital injections from the us state, the mortgage market is rocking on its foundations. i was in washington in july and met a number of senators who believed that the bottom of the mortgage crisis had not yet been reached and this would not happen before 2010. how long does the commission think the financial crisis will continue? what does the commission think of the signal sent to the market by the usa bailing out companies in financial straits, even though these are not generally protected by the state - first bear stearns and now fannie may and freddy mac? finally, what does the commission think of the current and upcoming reviews of existing legislation such as lamfalussy and the capital requirements directive, given the major risk nowadays of the changes spilling over and damaging the competitiveness of the european financial market?
question no 37 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0679/08) subject: air safety the recent spanair disaster in madrid in which many people were killed and the forced landing of a ryanair boeing 737 in limoges in france, in which 26 people were injured, once again raise questions about whether the community's arsenal of legislation and controls governing air safety is being adequately and effectively implemented. regulation (ec) no. 1899/2006/ oj l377, 27.12.2006, p.1. specifically lays down the obligation of airlines to carry out accident prevention and flight safety programmes and the requirements applicable to the operation of any civil aeroplane (certification, supervision, maintenance, instruments and equipment, safety, etc.). does the commission consider that these provisions are satisfactory and adequate, or does it believe that a more stringent control framework should be established for airlines? how does the commission judge the implementation to date of directive 2003/42/ec oj l167, 4.7.2003, p.23. on occurrence reporting in civil aviation (adoption of a system of notification of accidents and serious incidents)? does it consider that the aid provided so far for control mechanisms and early warning systems in respect of airlines with a dubious safety record and for the compliance inspections carried out by the european aviation safety agency in respect of the airline authorities of member states and the data released for establishing a blacklist is satisfactory?
question no 38 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0612/08) subject: safety of nuclear power plant the european union is now being faced with the immediate problem of satisfying ever- increasing energy demand. given that oil and, natural gas supplies and renewable sources of energies can only meet some of this demand, the major role of nuclear energy in resolving the problem is undeniable. at the same time, european citizens are becoming particularly anxious about the safety of nuclear power plant and proper nuclear waste management, particularly following recent leaks of radioactive material from nuclear plant in france and slovenia. it is therefore only natural that a large number of questions should arise concerning the safety of nuclear power plant in all eu countries and of the nuclear power plants to be constructed in turkey and other balkan countries and the guarantees provided concerning their safe operation. has the commission made a survey of the need to build nuclear power stations? what are its conclusions? finally, has it calculated the extent of eu dependency on nuclear energy in the near future?
question no 39 by liam aylward (h-0624/08) subject: investment in first generation, priority for second generation the turmes draft report (2008/0016/cod) on the proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, currently making its way through parliamentary committees, is reconsidering the council and commission biofuel and renewable energy mandatory target in transport, because second generation research and development has not attained a breakthrough. is it not the case, however, that we should set out a clear regulatory policy for investors in first-generation biofuels? why? these are the very same investors in second- and third-generation research and development who will build plants which can be easily converted to the needs of second- and third-generation technology. they cannot afford not to invest in r&d for next generation plants, as their plants will become obsolete.
question no 40 by avril doyle (h-0632/08) subject: biofuelswhen determining targets for biofuels should priority not be given to biodiesel rather than bioethanol?
question no 41 was ruled inadmissible and questions nos 42 to 45 will be answered in writing. as they deal with the same subject, questions 46, 47, 48 and 49 will be taken together:
thank you mr crowley, and thanks too for not insisting on a supplementary.
i apologise to the remaining two questioners for commissioner reding, but questions nos 51 and 52 will be answered in writing.
question no 54 from mr higgins has been withdrawn.
i am sorry to have to disappoint further questioners, but in view of the time i am afraid we are going to have to leave it there.
it is a point of order in a roundabout sort of way. mr orban and i go back a long time, so i hope he will take this in the spirit that it is intended, because one of his answers did actually take six minutes, and i think, as we are trying to get many questions up in future, i wonder if he could perhaps try and make his answers a little bit more focused or succinct in future for the benefit of all members.
mr evans, we have discussed the matter with vice-president wallström. on the one hand, we know the commission is trying to give us answers that are as full as we would like them to be, but then that obviously curtails the number of members able to participate. thank you all, and i am sure that you will receive full answers in writing. (the sitting was suspended at 19.15 and resumed at 21.00.)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, obesity is one of europe’s greatest health challenges, but some may say what has it got to do with us here in the european parliament? or indeed within the eu? there are at least two reasons. one is, as the rapporteur has already said, obesity-related diseases account for more than 6% of taxpayer-funded national health budgets in the eu. we all have to pay for it. secondly, different eu countries are tackling the issue differently, and all have much to learn from each other. so may i congratulate the commission for their white paper in triggering this debate, and i would just highlight a few key points. we generally welcome the commission’s proposal on food labelling, but felt it would be inappropriate for this report to pre-empt the detailed discussions which will be necessary on this specific issue. on obesity, evidence shows that the problem is much more about how much exercise people take rather than just how much food they eat. it is about calorie output, not just about calorie input. so it would be totally wrong to blame the food and drink industry for causing the problem, or indeed for failing to provide a sufficient solution. the reality is in fact much more complicated. we need more activity-friendly communities offering more bicycle routes, better town planning, more promotion of public transport, more parks and sports facilities, more school playing fields and yes, better education. we need many aspects of our lives to change. so may i congratulate the rapporteur on his wide-ranging report and his very difficult task, picking up from his predecessor, and dealing with so many shadows with so many ideas of their own. i particularly thank him for accepting some of my amendments including those concerning the problem of malnourishment, particularly in hospitals and care homes for the elderly. it is most important that we look after the more vulnerable in our society. some people make themselves vulnerable, and, if i may conclude with a sweeping generalisation, one of the problems of society today is a lack of personal responsibility, a belief that every failing is someone else’s problem, that someone else will solve it. more regulation simply feeds this perception; more self-regulation and self-discipline is the answer. we need to encourage greater personal responsibility, and that way we will all make greater progress as a society.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, this is a long report. there were 400 amendments, and i would like to thank the rapporteur because he has tried to make some sense of it. i hope the key messages will not be lost because it is so long. for us in the socialist group the key messages – and there are some very positive points here – are that we need good food-labelling regulation and we want to see front-of-pack labelling, if possible using colour coding, included in the forthcoming discussions. we know the commission is looking at this and that is what we want to see. we are pleased that there is now support across the parliament for a ban on artificial trans-fatty acids. when i first raised this two years ago there was no support in the parliament – in fact the commission was taking denmark to court and there was nothing happening. we have now had a written declaration and we have a consensus, so i hope the commission will do something like this. commissioner, you spoke about product reformulation. i think this is crucial. it is true what philip bushill-matthews says that obviously people have to take some responsibility, but manufacturers have a responsibility in terms of how they make products. many of them are now making great efforts to cut salt, fat and sugar. often these things are hidden in foods. it is not obvious to consumers when they buy ketchup or yoghurt that they contain lots of sugar. in fact the labelling system often disguises what is in the product, such as yoghurts which are labelled ‘low fat’ when they have very high levels of sugar. we do not believe that self-regulation is the answer to everything. we think there has to be a degree of regulation, in particular in relation to children. yes, adults can make choices but children need to be protected by the law and that is why we want to see independent monitoring of any voluntary agreements by industry. we know that you are taking the first steps in this direction. finally, this is a huge issue for europe. it is going to cost the public purse a lot of money if we do not tackle it and we now need some concrete proposals to come from the commission – not on issues which are to do with national responsibility, but in those areas where the eu has responsibility we need clear policies which help national governments to reduce obesity.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank the honourable members for the range of their discussions. the regulators should not take all the decisions. the commission actively encourages the development of the online licensing market for music, but premature legislative intervention, without full analysis of market needs and trends, would not appear the best way of developing a healthy online retail market in europe. however, if it becomes apparent that the commission’s current interventions cannot deliver an online licensing model fit for the 21st century, then we will consider a different approach. it is now essential that all stakeholders, authors, performers, publishers, collecting societies and the record companies, get together and find a licensing structure that will enable the emergence of more legal online services while preserving a decent outcome for authors. mr medina ortega has alluded to the fact that it is in everybody’s interest that we have a healthy cultural industry throughout europe. i think i speak for everybody in the commission when i say that is our goal. i think it is also proper to try to introduce a system whereby everybody benefits from creativity and culture – including the artists – and everybody can enjoy it at a reasonable cost. so that is what we are all trying to achieve. we can have differences of opinion as to how we go about it. over the last number of years i have heard expressions of different viewpoints, both inside this house and from groups outside parliament. we do not always agree on how we could achieve those objectives, but i think we all know what we want to try and do. when i suggested the platform – and it was referred to by mr gauzès and others – it was the need to bring together the small and big players in a particular forum, and particularly the smaller collecting societies who, i understand, feel left out in this particular debate. so that is what i was proposing there. i think our goals are the same. we certainly want to take all interests into account and arrive at a proper licensing system that is a model which is fit for the world of today, not the world of maybe 40 or 50 years ago.
member of the commission. − madam president, the need to improve the governance of the international accounting standards board (iasb) is something that has long been recognised by the commission, parliament and the council of ministers. i have highlighted the importance of this on numerous occasions. i have been critical of the iasb’s lack of adequate consultation and feedback procedures, as well as the lack of impact assessments for new standards. given the iasb’s de facto role as a global standards setter, it is imperative its governance procedures are up to the highest standards. i want to get to the situation where we can adopt ifrs standards in the eu with full confidence that the process and content of these standards are exemplary. that is why, when i learnt that a revision of the constitution of the iascf was envisaged, i set as a priority the improvement of governance. you will recall last november, with my counterparts in the us securities and exchange commission (sec), the financial services agency of japan and the international organisation for securities commissions, i proposed the creation of a monitoring board to ensure the public accountability of the iascf. we have made some good progress on this. the iascf has recently proposed modifying its constitution in order to enter into a formal relationship with the proposed monitoring board. it accepts that this board must have the power to participate in the nomination process of the iascf trustees and have the ultimate power to approve their appointment. it also accepts that the monitoring board will be able to address any area of work of either the trustees or the iasb and refer them for consideration by the iascf board of trustees or by the iasb. the iascf intends to reach a conclusion about these matters in early october, with changes to the iascf constitution entering into force from 1 january 2009. this will, in particular, allow the monitoring board to become operational early in 2009. that is why i consider the time is now ripe to firm up on these proposals. if we leave it too late, we will not be able to reopen the governance issues. the ongoing financial turmoil emphasises the need to ensure that accounting standards reflect the objectives of prudential supervision and financial stability. it has not proven possible to get agreement to have bodies such as the ecb in the monitoring board. as a compromise, we could envisage, in these new arrangements, that there would be an international accounting advisory group to advise the monitoring group on prudential and financial stability matters. this group should include both the european central bank and the committee of european securities regulators and, no doubt, other relevant international bodies. again, i am grateful to this house for having emphasised the importance of prudential supervision and financial stability in its resolution of 24 april. in exercising its eventual role in the monitoring board, the commission must also represent the other european institutions, in particular this house. to do so effectively, i would propose to draw up consultation procedures with the european parliament. these procedures could, if necessary, be formalised in an appropriate form. i have endeavoured to ensure that key meps were kept informed by my services about the evolution of this debate. it was, however, brought to my attention today that there was a lapse in this communication. apparently, in preparing our position, events that took place towards the end of july were not communicated by my services in the usual manner, because of the holiday period. i know that there is widespread dissatisfaction in this house about the fact that you were not properly consulted during the elaboration of our proposals. i am also dissatisfied by this fact and have given clear and firm instructions to my services not to repeat such a mistake again. i believe my director-general has been in contact with mrs berès to try and explain this omission. i hope that this oversight will not jeopardise the common goal we have both been striving for, namely, a better governance regime for the iasb. with some further improvements, i am confident that these enhancements to the iascf’s governance will improve the quality of accounting standards and ensure that they meet the needs of all stakeholders – including the european union, which to this date remains the largest user of ifrs. the reform of the iascf governance currently being contemplated represents a step change in the accountability of this body to public authorities, something this house has repeatedly called for. i appeal to the european parliament to support our proposals as the best way to ensure that this reform achieves real influence.
madam president, i have to admit to the commissioner that i am really quite confused by what has been going on with this case. i had heard nothing about it until literally this week and suddenly i get deluged with approaches, both from the iascf and from the commission, trying to persuade me one way or the other as to whether the imf should be included in the monitoring group. i think this is a rather unsatisfactory way to proceed with what is essentially almost a piece of legislation, so i would ask the commissioner if we could not delay this a little, get it sorted out and come back to it perhaps at the october mini-plenary. i would like to suggest that i do not see that adding the imf and the world bank to this monitoring group would make it that unwieldy. it seems to me they would cover the rest of the world in a rather satisfactory manner. i do not really see that there is a need then to have yet another accounting advisory group that advises the monitors that monitor things. it is like the house that jack built. i wonder whether they could not in any case consult quite readily, unofficially, if they ever need to do so. i wonder if we could have some discussions over the next couple of weeks and end up with a vote, possibly in a more satisfactory manner, at the mini-plenary in october.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we all know that question on the doorstep: what does europe do for me? here is an answer: europe is providing a new opportunity for patients. that is good news; we just have to make sure it works, and we will work together – the three institutions, and certainly within this parliament – to make it work. but we are talking about court judgments. we are not talking about a blank sheet of paper, so we are not starting from afresh. we have to take into account those judgments. those judgments, in laymen’s terms, are that, if you are facing undue delay for treatment, you have the right to go to another member state, to have that treatment and have the bill sent back home, so long as the cost is comparable and so long as the treatment is normally available. that is straightforward. when i produced my patient mobility report in this parliament, it was overwhelmingly accepted. above all, we said, this must be a decision of politicians, and not of lawyers. madame la ministre, je cite jean giraudoux: "jamais poète n'a interprété la nature aussi librement qu'un juriste la réalité". that is why we want politicians and not lawyers interpreting this. that is why we want legal certainty, so that everyone knows where they stand: governments, health services, patients, doctors. and it is why we must make it work for patients and for health services. it must be an opportunity and not a nightmare back home for health-service managers. so we have questions. we have questions that the patient has the right to have answers to. do i qualify? if i do, how do i proceed? what are the checks that i can carry out on where i might be going and who the doctor might be? what is the choice? what is the confidentiality requirement? and what happens if something goes wrong? those are all questions for which we must find the answer. and then there are issues we have to discuss among ourselves; some of them have been raised already. firstly, prior authorisation. my instinct is that, for in-patient hospital care, it is fair to have prior authorisation. the court did not say that this was wrong in itself; it said it is wrong to refuse it under certain circumstances, so we need to look at that very carefully. we also need to look at the issue of prescriptions. yes, i understand that the home state must have the decision on what is prescribed, but if you are prescribed a course of drugs as part of your treatment in another member state and you go back home and they say you cannot have the rest of that course, where does that leave the patient? that is the sort of question we have to answer. another issue is reimbursement. the patient does not want to have to go with a pocketful of cash. there must be a way of having the bill sent back home, i believe through a central clearing house. but this is a measure for patients – not for services, that is for another day. it is patients who are at the centre of this – patients, not lawyers – and it is for all patients, not just for a few.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i welcome very much the statement that has been made, certainly, by council on this particular directive and the limits and context of it. as parliament’s rapporteur on the update of the coordination of social security, and indeed its rapporteur on the implementing regulation, i have a very specific interest in this because questions about reimbursement – how it is provided, what information is given, the speed and method of it etc. – come within the scope of that particular regulation. i think that when we are talking about issues such as health care for people who are on holiday elsewhere in the european union, we should remember that comes under the european health card and under the coordination of social security. that is clear. what this directive is aiming to do is to pick up some of the issues which are not necessarily dealt with in that particular regulation, and i think we need to be careful where the dividing line is on that. the question of prior authorisation has of course been an extremely important one. i think we need to be clear that we are not talking necessarily about an absolute right of patients to move and be treated within the european union under their national systems, in terms of their national systems reimbursing them. it is a qualified right and i think we need to be clear on that. i think we also need to be clear that what this directive is proposing, as i understand it, is that what will be paid for is care that will be available under the national system, not new or different treatments, so that again qualifies the right that we are talking about in terms of this particular directive. there is no question that prior authorisation needs to be managed better, and that not only the patients but also the administrations involved need to understand what that is and how it should operate speedily in terms of medical need. that is the criterion set down by the court: medical need. administrations therefore need to reflect that, not necessarily their own cost basis. there is a lot to be welcomed in this directive, and issues around best practice, issues about quality, legal certainty, who is responsible, are also important. as john bowis has mentioned, we also need to take steps forward on questions, for example, about continuing care or prescriptions which may not be valid in one member state because of their own systems. but we also need to be careful – and this applies to the implementing regulation on 883, as it does to this – that we should not be in the business of helping patients make a profit by playing different systems off against each other. i do not think that health-care systems benefit from that whatsoever. i want to make clear on behalf of my group that increasing the amount of cross-border care is not of itself a goal. mrs roth-behrendt said that most patients wish to be treated at home and have the quality and speed of treatment there, so increasing the amount in itself, as i say, is not a goal. a lot of claims are being made about the effects of trying to increase the amount of cross-border care which i think we need to be wary of, and i am glad the debate has reflected that. there are people who are arguing that this introduces competition, that this drives up national standards, and that we even need to open the market as a reason for actually increasing and encouraging cross-border health care. however, this parliament has made its position very clear: health is not a service like car insurance. it has a very particular role and its users are not simply consumers, but people in need and potentially vulnerable. many of those who tell us that increasing cross-border health care is a good thing will also reassure us that it only covers 2-3%. i want to know what the estimates are for the future and what the effect of this will be on the 98% of people who do not move and currently do not want to.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the central feature of this package – travelling for non-hospital treatment outside the home country – is funding by the home country, but limited to the amount it would have cost there. so there are benefits in going to a country where treatment is cheaper, as long as it is better. health tourists will have to find the difference between the costs where treated and the home country’s base of provision. yes, travel costs are paid, ultimately by the home country, but at the home country’s own level, leaving the health tourist to find the treatment top-up and probably travel cost excess. the poorest cannot afford to do this and they are left with the lowest standard of treatment. the rich can do it, but they will probably go for private care anyway. regarding waiting lists, if a country’s health care is poor and expensive they will not be troubled by health tourists, but where it is cheap and good they could soon be overburdened. this, therefore, produces a two-tier health care system. is that what they call an unintended consequence?
mr president, why should a patient have to lose their sight waiting for a cataract operation in the uk, for instance, when it could be done in another member state? and why should a person waiting in agony for a hip operation not be able to take advantage of the lack of waiting lists in some member states, sometimes at a lesser cost to the country of origin? and why do some heart patients have to wait months to have surgery to unblock arteries when there really is no need? if a clinician advises treatment, and this cannot be provided at home, then we need a legal framework to ensure that we can seek it elsewhere. all too often it is the poorest people that face discrimination and inequality in access to health care. that is why we must ensure that member states can authorise treatment in another country prior to that treatment. we must not restrict cross-border health care just to those who can afford it. equally, this new directive must not compromise standards of care for those people who do chose to stay at home. we must also ensure that there are safeguards in place that put the rights and safety of the patients first. that is why it is vital that a mechanism is developed to share patients’ records between the patients’ home country and the country where they receive treatment. apart from that, we need to develop a system of compensation for patients who suffer avoidable harm when being treated in another country eu country. and, with regards to the sharing of best practice, i welcome article 15 in the draft directive which calls for a system of european reference networks. these centres of excellence could prove a useful way of sharing knowledge, training and the exchange of information. all too often we look at health-care-acquired infections or cancer-screening guidelines; the answer is on our doorstep, and it is about time that we started learning from each other more effectively.
mr president, many speakers stress the fact that all patients, whether they travel or stay at home, are entitled to high-quality, safe health care. let us not forget that one of the biggest demographic challenges we have is an ageing population who will inevitably want health care in their own locality. so we need clarity to respect the right of patients to access health services, and at the same time we need to respect the treaty provision stating that the organisation of health services, especially financing, is a competence of the member states. we must recognise that 27 states have different systems, different funding systems. i regret that the directive is not clear on this point, but i have confidence that our rapporteurs can clarify these issues: if we want to keep out the lawyers we must have clarity, not just to avoid patients going to court, but to avoid them going to court on cross-border medical negligence issues. so we need to have more innovation in our approach. the ideal mix, i believe, is to have patient mobility and to encourage member states to buy in expert services, not just to treat one patient but to treat groups suffering from the same condition. this could be more cost-efficient, and could enable patients to stay close to family and friends.
in writing. – cross-border healthcare is a key element of the social package. while the eu has facilitated freedom of movement and the right to live and work in other eu countries, clarification regarding patients’ rights to access healthcare in other member states was urgently required. despite numerous european court of justice rulings on this subject, citizens are not fully aware of their rights on this issue. moreover, they are not adequately informed about their exact entitlements, how to go about arranging treatment, or indeed reimbursements. in northern ireland, projects have been piloted around the border counties which ensure that people can benefit from the most appropriately located healthcare services. these projects have been very successful and have been very much appreciated by the people who have benefited from them. in this regard, i would like commend the british medical association (ni) and the irish medical association for their efforts in promoting cross-border healthcare between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. while i welcome this work by the commission, i cannot help feeling that it is overdue. now that this issue has been clarified and given a legal framework, i sincerely hope that member states will fully cooperate.
mr president, this is about the building in strasbourg and the decision to go back. the secretary-general sent an e-mail on tuesday morning saying we would go back in october. i understand there was no vote or decision by the bureau, which is strange. mr rømer made no mention of the availability of the expert report. i had to rely on information from the vice-president for transparency to know that the secretary-general had told the bureau he would make it available to members on request in the french and german versions in which it exists, although he would not translate it. i have now sent a total of three e-mails over the last two days asking for the report in french, with no response. i find this unacceptable and i am now raising the matter under rule 28 of the rules of procedure on accountability and rule 96 on transparency. i want to know the basis on which we are going back to strasbourg. i have read the note which went to the bureau on monday, but it seems to me that the works only relate to the false ceilings. so, firstly, what do we know about the reasons for the collapse? is it the design, the materials, the quality of construction or the building inspection? it has got to be one of those four. secondly, what does it tell us about the rest of the building? we do not know whether the whole building has been checked. are there faulty materials? one rumour is that the steel used in the building is the same as in the charles de gaulle airport roof which collapsed. is that true or not? (protests) well, if you do not give us the truth, rumours will proliferate. this is all without prejudice to mr matsakis’ concerns about asbestos in the building which he is pursuing with vigour, also with no response i think. i want to know, first of all, why i have not been given the report, what is the basis for the decision to go back to strasbourg, is the building truly safe, and who has decided it is? (applause)for my part, this is not, and should not be – and i hope it is not being – dealt with as a political issue. people could have died if they had been there in august, and they could die if anything goes wrong. please could i have some answers? (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i have a point of order. if you have the information to tell us that it is safe to go back to strasbourg, why can you not make a statement now before we leave this plenary and risk going back to a building that some of us think is still unsafe?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, just to confirm briefly that the ppe-de group has decided to withdraw our resolution on the social package. we had a very full debate at the last part-session, at which all groups aired their views very fully. meanwhile, our group has secured the rapporteurship on the renewed social agenda, which reflects the immense importance we give to social issues, and we look forward to getting the considered comments from all political groups over the coming months, so that together we can produce a report of which the whole house can be proud. (applause from the ppe-de group)
mr president, i voted in favour of the mikko report because i believe the media has a vital role to play in safeguarding democracy. with the expansion of the eu it is our role to ensure the convergence of standards for the protection of basic freedoms and democracy. i was involved in the opinion of the itre committee on the mikko report, and i would like to congratulate her because i think new technologies have led to the emergence of new media channels and new types of content, and the media remains an important political tool. in this context, a pluralistic media system is an essential requirement for the democratic social model. when media ownership is concentrated in just a few people’s hands, this favours the monopolisation of the advertising market and represents a barrier to new entrants. competition law has helped restrict media concentration, but these problems still remain in a number of member states where the market is dominated by a few large players. so the report’s suggestion of linking media law and competition law is therefore to be commended.
in writing. − the resetarits report, which i supported, makes reference to the importance of media in strengthening cultural and linguistic diversity. this week saw the launch of the first ever gaelic language television channel – a welcome development in the promotion of the linguistic diversity of both scotland and europe.
in writing. − community media has always had an important role to play in our society. such media can promote intercultural dialogue by combating negative stereotypes. the eu must fully recognise this by improving community media’s legal recognition and access to radio spectrum for broadcasts. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the eplp believes that the upgrading of vat requirements for financial services has been long overdue. the rapporteur has shown great diligence in his application to this task. we believe his approach has been very sympathetic to the issue of passing on costs to consumers and that he understands the problems that could be faced. we are uncertain how some points can be properly managed at a practical level – in particular, on the discretion for companies to be allowed to apply vat. so we have reservations which could not be expressed in the particular amendments, because it was an ‘en bloc’ vote 1-28. the eplp support the rapporteur but would have voted against amendments 6 and 21. i would personally like to thank joseph muscat for his work on this report and others and for his collegiate attitude in the european parliament. i hope his career goes from strength to strength and that we can welcome him back as a future prime minister of malta very soon.
in writing. − whilst in favour of cooperation between member states in the area of freedom, security and justice (afsj), uk conservatives are voting against this resolution as we remain consistently opposed to any calls for further harmonisation in the field of afsj. in particular we are against calls in the report for the adoption of those lisbon treaty provisions which can be adopted under current arrangements.
in writing. − i congratulate my colleague marianne mikko on her report. i will be voting in favour of the joint alternative motion for a resolution tabled by my group jointly with the liberals and greens, which is the closest to my own position. i see no reason why something that is illegal in written or oral form should be legal on the internet. of course, enforcement may be difficult, but that is not a reason for inaction. after all, we have speed limits on remote country roads, when policing it is very hard. yet this is not used to justify a free-for-all.
in writing. − new technology has led to the emergence of new media channels and changes in media content. a wide-spanning media system is essential for nurturing democracy and free thought. i broadly voted in support of marianne mikko’s recommendations.
in writing. − i am happy to support the practical ideas contained in most of this resolution on rising energy prices. national and regional authorities need to bring action plans as soon as possible to protect our most vulnerable citizens. in the medium term a shift to renewable sources of energy coupled with increased energy efficiency will help protect us from the inevitable swings in prices that come with reliance on fossil fuels, but in the here-and-now concrete action is needed to relieve and eradicate fuel poverty. i do not agree, however, that liberalisation of the energy markets is part of the solution to rising prices.
in writing. − i voted for the joint motion for a resolution on ‘getting a grip on energy prices’. however, i voted against amendment 1 calling for a windfall tax at european level. rather, due to different levels of energy charges across the union, this is something that must and should be done at national level.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on energy prices. whilst i wholeheartedly agree that rising energy prices require affirmative political action, i reject the resolution’s references to ‘low carbon’ energy. i reject the idea that increased nuclear energy can have a positive impact on the environment and believe that political attention should be focused on non-nuclear renewable energy sources.
in writing. − i welcome the positive vote today on recognising energy poverty and reducing vat for energy saving goods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the foglietta report and welcome the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues. obesity is a major problem across europe and conditions related to obesity and bad nutrition have serious consequences across societies. in my own country, the scottish government has taken positive steps to improve the nutrition within public institutions such as schools and hospitals and such initiatives are to be encouraged across the eu.
in writing. − i welcome alessandro foglietta’s report on the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues. the report contains a number of positive recommendations such as the proposal for an eu-wide ban on trans-fatty acids that have been found to be linked to heart disease and female infertility. however, i would join my colleagues in supporting measures that go further. schools, for example, should not find themselves in the position where they have to consider the option of housing advertising of unhealthy foods on their premises. my vote reflects these views.
in writing. − the need for clear labelling on food will help in our fight against obesity. i was very disappointed to see the rejection of mandatory front-of-pack labelling with colour coding in this report. this is a measure i strongly support. i welcome the calls for an eu-wide ban on artificial transfatty acids.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the progress report on the reform of the european schools, by katerina batzeli and erna hennicot-schoepges (o-0066/2008 – b6-0454/2008).
madam president, i rise not merely as a member of this house but also as a former schoolmaster. i wonder whether i might ask commissioner kallas, at his next meeting with the council of ministers, to have a particular word with the british minister of education to see whether or not it is possible that he might learn some of the lessons of the successes of the european school model. perhaps in particular he might consider reversing the disastrous decision of the british government to make the teaching of languages voluntary, in other words dropping european languages from the british curriculum. secondly, you might just remind him that europe was divided for half a century, but that it has now been reunited for 20 years. perhaps he might consider suggesting to his curriculum advisers that they remind the next generation of the history and the culture of central and eastern europe, in which britain traditionally was very much involved and did actually seek to support.
the debate is closed. i would wish everybody a happy day of european languages tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.05)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would say to the president-in-office: at next week’s european council you must move forward discussions on the lisbon treaty. you must be constructive, yet be considerate to the countries which have yet to ratify. you must adopt the european pact on immigration and asylum – though we must still search for schemes to seek skilled newcomers and manage migration – and you should discuss progress in combating climate change. but no one can mistake the most pressing issue facing this council. a storm is battering global finance markets, and its effects are being felt across europe – in jobs lost, pensions eroded and savings under threat. our citizens are worried. the challenges we face may be the gravest for generations, and they are evolving at lightning speed. it is at moments like this that our union is defined. we need a collective response. we cannot sustain a situation in which member states surprise one another through unilateral decisions with multilateral implications. europe needs coordinated and consistent policies to stem the flow of financial losses, to establish transparency and good practice and to prevent future woes. there are some who think they can now tap-dance on the grave of capitalism; but solutions will not be found in closed markets and command economies. they only ever short-changed europe’s citizens. if you build your house there, martin schulz, it will be a house built of straw. what we are witnessing is not the failure of the market economy. rather it is the excesses of unfettered, ineffectively regulated markets. financial markets currently owe less to adam smith than to the cincinnati kid. the greed of individual bankers, traders and short-sellers is certainly to blame, but so too is the failure of governments to ensure transparency and honesty in their dealings. liberal democrats have long warned of the dangers which caught the council unaware and the commission wrong-footed. last may my friend otto graf lambsdorff, together with jacques delors and others, signed a letter to the slovenian presidency of the council. it highlighted the profound danger of economic collapse posed by recent banking practices. in that letter they wrote, ‘decent capitalism needs effective public policy. profit-seeking is the essence of a market economy, but when everything is for sale, social cohesion melts and the system breaks down.’ europe was slow to heed such worries. it must now do what it can to put that system back to business. liberals and democrats hope that the conclusions of the ecofin council will form the basis for agreement at the european council. they are not an overnight cure, but they will help to remedy the underlying sickness. it is right to raise deposit guarantee protection to a eur 50 000 minimum across the union. family savings will be secure and capital flight discouraged. we also look forward to hearing the commission’s proposal to promote convergence of deposit guarantee schemes, just as we support rapid adoption of your ideas for improving capital adequacy. when you look at credit rating agencies, look at who pays their fees and at how they are supervised. but we also need to strengthen the links between national financial regulators. representatives from the euro-zone central banks sit together in the governing council of the ecb. similarly, we need a pan-european financial services authority to maintain order and transparency between financial institutions. the european council should ask whether the european union budget might be used to allow the european investment bank and the eif to give credit guarantees for small businesses. they, after all, provide the jobs on which europeans rely. it is those people who now need speedy and specific action, who need all parties and all member states to work as one, who expect common solutions to a common challenge.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, what a funny old european union it is, isn’t it? last saturday afternoon, after a jolly good lunch at the élysée, the european leaders stood on the steps and they talked with fairly weak smiles about solidarity. the smiles were weak, of course, because president sarkozy’s us-style bail-out plan had already collapsed into the dust. but nonetheless, ‘united we stand’ is what was said. and yet, with almost comic hypocrisy, the german chancellor decided that german interests come first and european interests come second, and she acted – and, perhaps for the first time in years, she got loud applause from her own electorate. of course it was the irish that started this trend the week before by going their own way, and my admiration for ireland grows by the day. but i think the last week is going to prove to be the watershed moment for this entire european project. you see, the only way to stop countries acting in their own national interest is to take that power away from them – to form a treasury department, there in frankfurt, that has power over tax, and power over government spending. indeed i have heard some of the eu extremists this afternoon effectively call for that. yet you cannot do it, because it will not command public support. in fact to do that would be even more unpopular than your hated lisbon treaty. no: it is more likely that what has happened in the last week marks the beginning of the end. the markets are saying it already. italian government bonds now yield 1% more than german- or french-issued government bonds. the markets are saying that economic and monetary union will not last. and i am not surprised, because it never was an optimal currency zone. one interest rate could never fit all these different countries, and you have never had proper public support. but it must be one thing or the other. it is either a full eu state that controls everything, or it is disintegration and back to national control. the credit crunch is hitting and hurting all of us, but i see a speck of light at the end of the tunnel. i see a dividend: possibly the beginning of the end of this whole mad and unwanted project.
madam president, the current financial crisis is not just affecting banks and investors. manufacturers, retailers, importers and exporters are all finding it more difficult to get the working capital they need, and there is a real risk that the major trade slowdown may intensify. so maintaining the free flow of goods – not just within europe but also to and from the developing world, as president barroso has just said – is therefore of particular concern. that is why – and this is the first of my two related points – the rapid appointment of a new trade commissioner is so important at this time. colleagues in the house may recall that we all supported peter mandelson across most parties and delegations at the time of his appointment. even the british conservatives supported him. i would hope that this may yet be the case with his successor, but i should share with the house that a number of colleagues from different delegations have already raised real concerns about her apparent lack of experience for the important trade portfolio. so i strongly suggest that it would be in her interest, as well as ours, for her hearing to be brought forward from 10 november, if at all possible. one month is a long time to wait and a long time for further doubts to develop. there is another reason: i have just been passed an e-mail saying that the transatlantic economic council, scheduled for 16 october, has had to be postponed because the outgoing commissioner has ‘outgone’ and the incoming commissioner has yet to be confirmed. so please can we get the show on the road. it is all our interests. my second point concerns smes, a point passionately mentioned by my good friend and colleague, joseph daul. when the council talks about the big picture, please can they talk about the little picture as well? i noticed the other day that the end of august was the closure date for consultation on the late payments directive. i think that timing was unfortunate. whatever companies may have said up until the end of august, they would have a more powerful message now. could i please ask for that consultation period to be reopened just for a further couple of months, because i think the fresh message about the lack of working capital is something that we really ought to take on board. i am not convinced that a late payments directive review would solve the problem, but i do think this sort of analysis would contribute to an understanding of the problem.
mr president, i would say to you, and to mr jouyet and mr almunia, that it is absolutely essential that the interbank market is restarted. the only sure way to achieve this is to have sovereign state guarantees for wholesale interbank deposits, as indeed ireland and denmark have done in their domestic markets. admittedly the contingent liability is enormous; however, when the interbank market restarts, the banks will stop hoarding, they will start lending again to businesses and individuals and householders, interbank rates will return to normal levels, and it is an absolute certainty that those guarantees will not need to be used. i agree with mr jouyet that this has to be done on a global basis. it is the proper role of the imf, as he said, to coordinate this action, and only with such a bold move, on a global basis, will we put out the fire and start to rekindle confidence.
madam president, i appreciate the co-rapporteurs’ willingness to work towards a consensus on this report. it is still not perfect as far as i am concerned – they will probably be pleased to hear that! – but it is much more appropriate than it was, and i feel we can be justified in supporting it. i raise two particular points. securitisation is seen as one of the demons of the current financial crisis, and now it seems to be seen as a necessary solution that we require originators to retain a percentage of their products. the commission is proposing 5% in its capital adequacy review. we must at the very least have an impact assessment of this idea. i hazard to suggest that the only result will be to clog up the financial markets, and investors may even be tempted to omit full due diligence because of it. what really matters is being able to trace back originators through intermediate repackages and hold them to account for any misrepresentation, negligence or incompetence. and the second matter is the way of settling disputes or disagreements in the colleges of supervisors. the rapporteurs have suggested a rather complex and formal appeal process with chairmen and vice-chairmen and a new bureaucracy. surely such situations must be resolved quickly, and we have proposed therefore that the parties to any disagreement which cannot be resolved amicably should agree mutually on a mediator whose decision, at least in our view, should be final. lastly, commissioner, i appreciate the introduction that you gave to your speech on the present crisis and am sorry you were not present during the previous debate with mr almunia and mr jouyet, when all these matters were represented by the members of this parliament, including myself. maybe you can read through those speeches at great length and give us a response to our points of view.
madam president, this report is ambitious but also realistic. it analyses the causes of the financial turmoil and proposes future changes. many of these changes, as others have said, would have been suggested without the present situation, because there was already a view that the lamfalussy process had not progressed as far as it could or should have done. so this is about the next generation of supervision, rather than a fix for the current crisis – though we think it will help prevent any similar occurrence, and now there should be more willingness at member state level to have formal integrated decision-making structures. but i reiterate that it is important for regulation to be smart. the solution to our current problems, and the calmer future when it arrives, will not take the form of regulatory spam with thousands of compliance tick boxes, which, as we now know, causes it to be pushed off to specialist departments to do the ticking, without proper ‘hands-on’ at board level. we should have clear, simple rules. some, yes, fuller in scope, but rules that do not swamp the big picture, so that those at the top are properly accountable and know what is going on. finally, as part of crisis resolution, we need improvements on winding up, but that is not just in crisis situations: we also need to look at cross-border winding up in normal times. here again we may need to tread on territory that makes member states uncomfortable, but it has to be faced.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, when a sitting president wins all the seats in his parliament, we can probably assume that something is amiss. not even robert mugabe in zimbabwe has managed a clean sweep as president alexander lukashenko did last month in belarus. i do not dispute that lukashenko enjoys widespread popularity in a country largely insulated from post-soviet reality. but his iron grip on power has turned his country into an international pariah. for the european union it does not make sense to welcome the presence of the last european dictator on our own doorstep. nevertheless, we should always seek to challenge and also at the same time to engage with belarus. the recent release of political prisoners therefore presents us with an opportunity. whether lukashenko’s move constitutes an overture to the west remains to be seen, but we should be ready to respond with our own incentives to recognise and reward belarus as appropriate. we should not discount the possibility that lukashenko is blackmailing the kremlin, which has hitherto been vital to his stranglehold on political power. if this is indeed the case the eu should not be afraid to wield the carrot as well as the stick and therefore i welcome foreign minister martinov’s imminent visit. belarus has much to gain from closer ties to the european union, not least the partial alleviation of widespread poverty caused by a stagnating economy. nevertheless the fact remains that belarus is still not a member of the council of europe. ratification of its partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu remains frozen. belarus remains a country where human rights are routinely disregarded, political dissent is not tolerated and a free press is a distant pipe dream. once we have started dangling the carrot, we should also make sure we still have the stick in the other hand. i personally hope nevertheless that belarus, if it does not reunite with russia as some within the kremlin would like, will one day enter its rightful place amongst the european family of free nations.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as the original rapporteur on regulation no 1049/2001 i find this a very interesting debate. what i find strange – since i know the participants in the debate here tonight are committed fully to openness and transparency – is that the argument as to why not enough has been done is ‘we need more time’. this is unacceptable. only 30% of the european population have faith in the european union. why? because they feel absolutely disconnected from what is done in their name. and the amazing thing is that we have a positive story to tell. why is it that the institution has to be dragged screaming and kicking to the european courts in order to do the right thing? we need to do more than just explain. commissioner wallström, i know you are as exasperated and exhausted by these arguments as i am, but it is not enough to say we need more time. we actually need to demonstrate to our citizens that we will not only explain to them why we do what we do, but how we do it and the legal advice upon which we operate. because, unless we do that, we will disconnect people from the european project. it has been argued here tonight that this is impossible with regard to some matters, owing for example the imprecise definition of ‘documents’. it is not imprecise at all. it is in fact well defined. it means all documents held, received or produced by the three institutions or the agencies set up by them. and ‘documents’ itself is clearly defined. so let us have the courage to have an open register. not the maze that we have at the moment where, when you go into one register, you do not get access to all of the other registers or all of the other links. at the moment we have citizens who go into a maze. let us allow citizens to come into the door of the three institutions and let us expose ourselves to the scrutiny of public opinion. i tell you now that unless we do the right thing, the judgement will be made in the june election in favour of those extreme parties who are not in favour of the eu or the eu institutions. time is running out. act now. it is not impossible.
madam president, the turbulent financial events of the last few days have changed the world. we have all been concerned for some time now about the potential problems in the global financial system, but the rapid fall of the major banks, one after the other in quick succession, has been astonishing. i therefore welcome the moves by the uk government today to increase stability. although it is outside the eurozone, the measures taken by the uk are all in line with the decisions made yesterday in the ecofin council. i only wish that some of the countries in the eurozone had acted in the same way. in order to get through the challenges we will face, there is an urgent need for the european union to provide leadership and coordinate a strategy with eu national governments. europe must take a central role, not a back seat, especially if the eu wants to connect with the people of europe. but we also need to recognise that this crisis has been brought about by market failures, a lack of appropriate legislation and as a result of decisions taken by a few selfish individuals on fat-cat bonuses that will affect the lives of millions, and even billions, of people around the world. we need to ensure that such criminal negligence can never reoccur and we need those responsible to be held accountable for the full weight of their actions.
madam president, for years i have been warning that the european arrest warrant could be used to suppress free speech on the internet. this has now happened. on 1 october, dr frederick toben was arrested at heathrow airport on a european arrest warrant issued in germany for alleged xenophobic crimes committed on the internet. dr toben is a holocaust denier. his views are repugnant to all reasonable people. but this is not the point. he has been arrested in britain for publishing his views on the internet in australia. holocaust denial, while repellent, is not illegal in britain or australia. if this european arrest warrant is executed, its use proves that, if someone expresses themselves on the internet in terms legal in their own country, they can be extradited to another eu country where those views are illegal. this would have profound implications for free speech within nation states.
that concludes the item.
the next item is the commission statement on the suspension of the wto doha round.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am very happy that this house has become rather more critical towards the doha round in recent years. in fact, the joint resolution in front of us reflects very faithfully the declaration of the global parliamentary assembly in september, which expresses very serious concerns about the very little development content that remains in the doha negotiations and is very critical of its ever more exclusive deal-making procedures. let me add that, in the spirit of the declaration of that global parliamentary assembly, i hope that the amendment put forward by the ppe-de group and the uen group, calling for bilateral wto-plus type free trade agreements, will not be carried in tomorrow’s vote. bilateral ftas are exactly the opposite of a functioning multilateralism and greens will not be able to support the resolution, if indeed that amendment is carried. what strikes me in our debate today, and indeed in this resolution, is the failure of courage to name a simple truth – that the doha round negotiations, as we have got to know them, are now over. that suspension could well be long, lasting until the spring of 2010. it is almost certain that the new negotiators of the us, the commission, india, will not be going back to the same old quick fixes of july 2008 that did not work even then. so this is actually an opportunity. this is exactly the right time to evaluate the failures of the last seven years of doha talks and to re-establish a common and fairer agenda, together with a more open and democratic process, which can be fully supported by all wto members and especially the least developed among them.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – the eu likes to throw its weight around when it comes to trade. remember the six-year-long banana war with the us? that was after the eu gave special market access to its former colonies in the caribbean. the director-general of the wto is former trade commissioner pascal lamy. is there not perhaps a conflict of interests? after all, his eu pension might depend on him not attacking eu policies. could that have been a factor in his mind as he attempted to negotiate between trading blocs? peter mandelson blamed the collapse of the doha round on us agricultural subsidies. talk about the pot calling the kettle black! for decades the common agricultural policy has been stuffing the pockets of eu farmers with enormous subsidies. this was as much to blame for the collapse of the trade talks as anything else. anyway, the last thing the eu should be doing is scoring points against other regions in trade wars at a time of global hunger and financial crisis.
madam president, may i first of all raise with the commissioner the problem of the situation following the demise of peter mandelson. i think he has failed the eu by leaving his post. we are in a serious position. you yourself have just said there is a real opportunity for the doha round to be restarted. without peter mandelson at the helm – and i have criticised him on many occasions, but at least he had the intellect and the knowledge as a past minister of trade to be able to carry on with the battle – i feel that we are in dire straits. will you, commissioner, for example, be signing off the agreement next week on epas? what knowledge do you, with the greatest respect, have on epas? you were not involved in the negotiations, or in the setting up of the epas. certainly i never spoke to you when i was drafting the report on them. and will the commission guarantee to this house today that we will have a proper hearing, when baroness ashton comes before the committee on international trade? because if you try to push it through on a day when there is going to be nobody present, if you try to push it through next week, or, for example, on a monday, which is very difficult for members, then beware the wrath of this house! remember what happened to the santer commission! i believe that she should be given a fair and proper hearing and, as many people have said, it is vitally important that we have a good commissioner at the helm. with regard to that, i just wonder, commissioner, whether you and i are listening to the same sort of discussions. you said the us farm bill was being redrafted. i think you are kidding. obama said only yesterday that he was going to continue to be more protectionist than ever before, and so has the republican candidate. you will see huge protectionism coming from america. i leave you with one thought: somebody said there is a food crisis. let me make it absolutely plain to this house: there is no food crisis. wheat is now eur 40 a tonne less than the cost of production. madam president, on a point of order, just very quickly. outside this chamber do we have a circus? this has nothing to do with the discussions today. do we have a circus? do we have a restaurant? do we have a club? you have to fight your way through. i think you should take it to the conference of presidents and stop the sort of circus that is going on outside this chamber now.
your comments are noted, mr sturdy.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item on the agenda is the report by zbigniew zaleski on behalf of the committee on international trade on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and ukraine in relation to preservation of commitments on trade in services contained in the partnership and cooperation agreement (com(2008)0220 – c6-0202/2008 – 2008/0087(cns)) (a6-0337/2008).
author. − mr president, the arctic has been described as the last imaginary place. it is a special place for many people. we are in the midst of international polar year. the last such commemoration saw the emergence of a charter for the antarctic. the arctic is different. it has peoples and nations, but it is also the focus of global climate change, with all its threats, challenges and opportunities. i have long argued that we should have an arctic policy – perhaps through our northern dimension mechanism – and i was very pleased a month ago to attend a conference in greenland on behalf of our president where i found myself for the first time surrounded by more than a dozen commission officials from different dgs. somebody has now got the message that this is important. we look forward to the coming commission communication, but this resolution is to give you, commissioner, courage to be bold and to show you how important this house considers this issue. yes, we have to protect the fragility of the arctic environment. yes, we have to look at sustainable ways of developing resources in the arctic, specifically energy-based resources. yes, we have to look at how we can safely use any emerging sea routes. there is much more that i could say. i am grateful to colleagues for their cooperation on this very important resolution. when our continent emerged from the cold war, gorbachev said that the arctic should be an area of peaceful international cooperation. i believe that our union has a duty to secure that, both for our own arctic nations and also for our arctic neighbours – so courage with your communication.
i scríbhinn. – ní mór do bheartais maidir le cuimsiú sóisialta díriú, go príomha, ar an cheart atá ag gach duine maireachtáil le dínit agus a bheith páirteach sa tsochaí a rathú. chuige sin, ní mór do bheartais maidir le cuimsiú sóisialta ioncam a rathú nach ligeann do dhaoine a bheith brúite isteach i gcásanna bochtaineachta agus eisiata. tacaíonn an tuarascáil seo leis an choimisiún eorpach chun céim thábhachtach chun tosaigh a iarraidh leis an troid in éadan na bochtaineachta agus ar son an chuimsithe shóisialta a dhéanamh níos sofheicthe. iarrann sé diansaothrú na straitéise trí tháscairí soiléire agus spriocanna coincréiteacha a fhorbairt. cuireann sé béim ar an ghá atá le cur chuige níos iomlánaí sa troid in éadan na bochtaineachta, ina bhfuil réimse beartas ae i gceist. tá tábhacht ar leith le hiarratas na tuarascála ar íosphá agus íos-ioncam, tosaíocht a dhéanamh de dhíothú bhochtaineacht an pháiste, agus rochtain ar sheirbhísí poiblí ó ghrúpaí atá i mbaol eisiaimh shóisialta. ba chóir iad seo a chomhlánú le céimeanna tacaíochta chun cuimsiú sóisialta i réimsí amhail tithíocht, oideachas, oiliúint agus léann ar feadh an tsaoil a éascú, mar aon le scéimeanna fordheontais ioncaim do dhaoine aonair agus teaghlaigh.
mr president, this parliament wants these symbols for one reason only – to inflate its ego and attach the trappings of statehood to the eu. i have a much better anthem and flag, thank you very much, and i am not about to trade them for the tawdry baubles of eurofederalism. ode to joy, which we are going to purloin, may be a very nice tune, but so is jingle bells, and like jingle bells it heralds a fantasy, the fantasy that the eu is good for you. but unlike jingle bells, it will damage your national sovereignty and the right to control your own destiny. more like ‘code to destroy’ than ode to joy! as for the flag, which we have stolen from the council of europe, even its proponents do not know what it means. we have as many explanations in the afco committee as to what the stars signify as there are stars on the flag. this proposal to me exposes the insatiable fanaticism of europhiles. the ink was not dry on the lisbon treaty, which deliberately excluded these symbols, before there was an insistence that parliament give them official status nonetheless. my constituents do not want an eu flag and an eu anthem. they want the right to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty, thank you very much!
mr president, i am somewhat surprised at the storm in a teacup that this change to our rules of procedure has provoked in some quarters. we know that the member states decided some time ago not to elevate the european flag and anthem to treaty status. they decided not to give them such an elevated status but to leave them with their current status. what is their current status? they are simply recognised by the institutions. the european council did so as long ago as 1985. by the way, mrs thatcher was a member of the european council then. i see some of her admirers are now repudiating her decision. i must say that i myself had some hesitation about adopting a symbol chosen by mrs thatcher as the flag of the european union. however, in the spirit of all-party compromise and consensus, i am willing to accept it. that is the status the flag and anthem were given – recognition by the institutions. there is, however, an anomaly. we, the european parliament, have never actually recognised them in our rules. it is quite logical that we tidy up this anomaly and put a reference to the flag in our rules of procedure. how people can make such a fuss about such an obvious thing to do – about such a normal procedure, which respects the decisions of the member states not to elevate it to treaty status – i do not know. but then the ways of working of the eurosceptics – not least in my own country – have always been a bit of a mystery. when you see that this flag has been around for many years, if you saw the european supporters at the ryder cup, when europe played america at golf just a couple of months ago – where people, who probably included conservative eurosceptics, were waving the european flag – it really does look a little ridiculous when they now make such a fuss about this reasonable change to our rules of procedure.
mr president, our federalist friends should not try and recruit mrs thatcher to their cause. she would be appalled at the developments that have taken place in the european union. we have heard that symbols are important, yet we are constantly reassured that the european union has no ambition to become a state despite every resolution and piece of legislation through this parliament taking us further in that direction. of course, the outstanding example of this was the constitution. this was rejected and then re-emerged as the treaty of lisbon. in order to try and sell the treaty of lisbon, national negotiators decided that parts of the constitution that could be interpreted as impinging on statehood, such as the flag and the hymn, should be removed. indeed, british government ministers used as a selling point when they were trying to sell the treaty of lisbon to our people that it was somehow different to the constitution. my constituents in the east of england do not want a constitution, they do not want the treaty of lisbon and they certainly do not want a state called europe. i think it is an affront to them to try and introduce, or give official character to, these symbols.
mr president, i find it especially strange – tragic even – that the symbols are attacked by people who were formerly from communist states of central and eastern europe. we recall the flags being waved in the crowds in tallinn, east berlin and budapest. we recall the anthem being played at the brandenburg gate. these things were not imposed or prescribed by parliamentary rules of procedure but were inspired by the hearts and emotions of the citizens. the symbols are symbols of our dignified values of peace and solidarity.
mr president, just to add to mr méndez de vigo’s point, the international olympic committee has a flag and an anthem. from what the british conservatives have just been saying, i can only conclude that the international olympic committee is a state by their definition.
in writing. – i support the introduction in the rules of an official recognition of our european flag, the european anthem ode to joy, a european day on 9 may and the motto of ‘unity in diversity’. this support does not diminish my commitment and loyalty to my own country, england, where i was born, brought up, educated and now live. i reject the view that one has to choose to exclusively give one’s loyalty to one region. i am proud to be from the forest of dean, to be english and european.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, my political group supports the commission’s white paper on the health strategy. in particular we support the focus on prevention, education and encouraging healthier lifestyles. planning to protect our citizens from health threats and pandemics, and aiming to reduce health inequalities across the eu, are very important. we need new guidelines on cancer screening, a directive on organ donation, improved surveillance mechanisms to respond to health threats and improved exchange of best practice. but, with regard to e-health, i should sound a note of caution. this is an area where we need to draw up precise rules defining a clear framework. it should be clear that it should not exclude those who are not internet-literate, and should not replace a visit to consult the doctor. this said, i can see many advantages, but we must also be aware of the potential perils. however, what health policy also needs at eu level is clear focus. in my work as shadow rapporteur on this report, i have detected a real sense that there are too many different working groups and work streams, expert groups and task forces, many of which have been set up as presidencies’ pet projects, or because of pressures from members of this house or from other interest groups. i believe the eu has a lot of value to add in the field of health, but that resources should be properly focused and provide value for money. i would urge colleagues to vote for my amendment 2 calling for the commission to launch a review of current work streams. i would also urge colleagues to support my amendments on protecting our citizens’ health from dangers at work. i would like to ask the commission to respond in particular to my amendments 1 and 6 regarding exposure to substances toxic for reproduction. in the forthcoming proposals for review of the carcinogens directive, it is vital that substances toxic for reproduction are included. i understand that the commission has made a u-turn on this, and would be grateful if the commission would explain its position.
mr president, people should have details of this oral amendment. it is to make clear why the united nations convention on the law of the sea is not sufficient on its own to deal with the arctic. so it adds the words to recital d: ‘and which was not formulated with specific regard to the current circumstances of climate change and the unique consequences of melting ice in the arctic seas’.
mr president, it is exactly the same subject and it is to add to the words in recital f: ‘whereas the arctic region is currently not governed by any specifically formulated multilateral norms and regulations’.
mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to offer my explanation of vote. just like the last speaker, i do not think anyone can disagree with the goals of the report in terms of promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. but what we really need to recognise is that we must get away from this idea that, whatever the problem, the solution is to be found at the eu level. actually, the solution is often not even to be found at a national level. if we really want to tackle poverty, if we really want to encourage social inclusion, quite often we have to look to the solutions within our own communities. right across the european union, right across my own country, right across the city that i represent, london, the greatest city in the world, we see a number of local community groups tackling poverty ‘at the coalface’, without any intervention from the state. they understand the problems, and the communities are acting together. we have to create the right conditions for local communities to tackle these problems: if you want to look for the solutions, please go to the website of the centre for social justice in my constituency in london.
mr president, thank you very much for offering me this opportunity to offer my explanation of vote on the suspension of the doha round. it is with great gratitude that i recognise that most of this house is quite sad at the suspension of the wto doha round, because actually there were real goals to be gained from further liberalisation. unfortunately, once again, it was agriculture that held us up, and, while the eu managed to avoid the blame, i think we have to recognise that we had our own internal politics and that, when commissioner mandelson wanted to go further on agriculture, he was held back by some of the most protectionist states in the european union. we need to recognise that there is a greater goal out here; that services that make up so much of our economy need to be unlocked and liberalised. unfortunately we have to unlock agriculture and goods before we unlock trade in services. we need further opening of trade. we need to stop protecting uncompetitive farmers. we need to make it easier for entrepreneurs and farmers in developing countries and poorer countries to trade with us, sell their goods and services, because only trade, not the large aid industry, will help these people out of poverty.
mr president, we are generally encouraged to regard nationalism as arbitrary, transient and faintly discreditable – but, when it is euro- nationalism, we take a completely different attitude and we are invited to revel in the emblems and trappings of statehood: a flag, an anthem, a national day and all the rest of it. i take particular exception to the appropriation of beethoven’s ninth symphony as the european anthem, which we are now all expected to stand to attention to. i am afraid it has rather the same effect on me as it has on alex in a clockwork orange and for the same reasons, namely that it has bad connotations. but the point i want to make is this: the sole, and rather token, change that was made to the european constitution when it was turned into the lisbon treaty was the removal of these european national symbols. in unilaterally putting them back in, this parliament, this ageing and decrepit parliament, is flicking two liver-stained and liver-spotted fingers at the electorates who rejected that european constitution. if you want these symbols to have binding force, have the courage to put it to the people in a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i voted against this report by mr carnero gonzález, which seeks to reintroduce more extensively in this parliament the european flag and the european anthem. in my country, the people were told that the lisbon treaty was so different from the european constitution that it was no longer justified to have a referendum, and yet the only substantive difference that i can find between the constitution and the lisbon treaty is the removal of these trappings of statehood. now this parliament is seeking to bring them back again. this illustrates the deceit on which the whole european project is based. it illustrates also the monumental contempt with which we in this house treat public opinion and treat the electors who voted us into this place. we must now have a referendum on the lisbon treaty in its entirety.
mr president, thank you very much for offering me the opportunity to give my explanation of vote on this particularly important issue. like the previous speakers, i note the duplicity with which those who support the european project often operate. we were told, for example, that the lisbon treaty would fall if any country voted against it. when the french and dutch duly voted ‘no’, we were told that actually most countries want it to continue, so we should continue. when the irish rejected it, rather than simply accepting this as the final nail in the coffin of the lisbon treaty, we were told that we must find a way to make the irish vote again until they vote the right way. here is yet another example. we were told that the lisbon treaty is completely different to the constitution. ‘look at the evidence,’ they say, ‘we have changed the font size, we have moved it around, it is completely different and we have stripped out the symbols of the european union’. we warned that this would not last for long. those who support the project would find a way of reintroducing the symbols. this is exactly what has been done. my plea to those of you who support the european project is to be honest with the electorate and have the courage to put it to a referendum.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are supportive of factual information being available to the public on eu policies and institutions and improving transparency. however, speaking in the current economic and financial circumstances, we believe that there are other priorities which are more pressing and important for the eu to deal with. for this reason, we have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. − the british conservatives voted against this proposal on the basis that it extends the national authorities’ ability to extract information on criminal records without recourse to proper scrutiny. we remain in favour of intergovernmental cooperation in the field of criminal justice but not automatic right of access to such data.
in writing. − british conservatives support measures to step up the fight against undeclared work, particularly some measures mentioned in the report – those encouraging member states to reduce the burden of taxation on the workforce and promoting the benefits of legal employment for example. however, several points made in the report we cannot support. these include the setting up of a community-level platform for the coordination of labour inspectorates and a review of directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers. british conservatives believe that the directive needs to be better implemented but does not require legal modification which could lead to confusion for employers and employees. for these reasons conservatives abstained.
in writing. − undeclared work is a phenomenon which affects all member states of the eu. undeclared work is most common in labour-intensive and often low-paid work and the workers involved do not benefit from job security, social benefits or workers’ rights. the eu and its member states must take action to reduce levels of undeclared work and accordingly i voted in favour of the panzeri report.
in writing. − we need to do more to help those workers who are affected by the exploitation of ‘undeclared work’. their health and safety are jeopardised by unscrupulous employers.
in writing. − british conservatives support the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty. while the report contains some positive elements highlighting the plight of certain groups in society, we cannot support other paragraphs which refer for example to the establishment of an eu-wide minimum wage. many countries in the eu have a minimum wage but british conservatives believe that this is a matter for member states to decide. the report also contains some negative references to part-time work which the delegation considers is in no way representative of the uk situation. for these reasons conservatives abstained on this report.
in writing. − it is an outrage that child poverty remains such a pressing issue in 21st-century europe. my own country scotland, which is rich in natural resources, has disgraceful levels of child poverty – whilst the uk government in london remains committed to such wasteful and inhumane projects as the renewal of the trident missile system. fortunately the scottish government is committed to using such powers as they currently have to tackling child poverty issues. only last week the scottish education secretary announced a scheme to provide free school meals to children in their first three years at school, a welcome move in the current economic circumstances. this move will help in the fight against child poverty; so much more will be done when an independent scotland has full control over the nation’s finances.
in writing. − combating poverty in the eu is essential to realising a more equal society. one in five children in the eu lives on the brink of poverty and yet we are one of the richest places in the world. we need to work together to find solutions to eradicate child poverty in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which has now been appropriately debated in committee and on the floor. it is vital that we have a strong monitoring body which is made up of institutions which are responsible to elected bodies. i hope now that the transparency of decisions can be seen as just as essential as the decisions themselves.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues have today voted strongly in favour of the joint motion on the situation in belarus. we are fully supportive of the democratic opposition forces in belarus and concur with all the keys points relating to the questionable democratic legitimacy of the new parliament. with regard to paragraph 19 of the resolution, we wish to make clear that the issue of the death penalty is traditionally a matter of conscience for british conservative meps.
in writing. − i supported this joint resolution that expresses parliament’s regret and disappointment at the suspension of the wto doha round. so near, yet so far. the reality is that, with the imminent us elections looming in november and the consequent arrival of a new administration in washington, there will be no us trade negotiator in a position to negotiate before next summer. at that point europe will be itself resetting its political centre of gravity. doha is needed and is necessary, but we will not return to it until 2010 at the earliest. in the meantime the eu must continue to negotiate its region-to-region ftas with the republic of korea, the countries of asean and india.
in writing. − i could not vote in favour of the carnero report but did not wish to give support to a eurosceptic point of view either. i am wholeheartedly in favour of the european union. the party of which i am president is founded on the principle that scotland should be an independent nation – and we believe that that independence should be taken up as a free member state of the eu. nevertheless, i do not believe that there is any great desire on the part of the people of europe for the union to take on the trappings of a super-state. the symbols of the eu were enshrined within the eu constitution – and that document was rejected in france and the netherlands. the symbols were then omitted from the lisbon treaty which was, nevertheless, rejected in ireland. if europe wants to re-engage with its citizens it must bring forward policies which matter to the people – and not play around with meaningless symbols which are completely devoid of substance.
in writing. − as a representative of scotland, i think many of the issues dealt with in the seeber report are perhaps of limited interest to my constituents. however, the provision of high-quality water resources is of huge importance in all geographical zones of the eu and issues such as water loss through inefficiency and stresses matter to us all. water in scotland is provided through a publicly-owned company answerable to the scottish parliament, and the scottish government has a vision of scottish water becoming a compelling example throughout the world of how best to deliver water services. i fully endorse that vision and commend it to this house.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendment 6 from the party of european socialists that called for a nuclear-free and demilitarised arctic. i am well aware that currently uk submarines operate in these waters, but that is no reason not to support the proposal that an international agreement be reached to stop the introduction of nuclear weapons and end military activity in this zone in the future. i am disappointed that it was not carried, although i welcome the reference to the unclos treaty and the need for a future us senate to ratify it.
in writing. − the eu’s social legislation in the area of road transport is of great importance. road transport is of vital economic importance across the union. it is also important, however, that social legislation be applied in order to protect both drivers and the public at large. there are anomalies in the existing legislation and there have been shortcomings in national transposition. accordingly i voted in favour of the cercas report.
in writing. − the time for a centrally located single authority at european level may not have come yet. however, there are clear pressures which indicate that such thinking (while ahead of its time) is valid. i hope that during the current financial crises the eu does not shrink away from tackling any of the current shortfalls concerning supervision. the ‘college’ approach as pronounced in solvency 2 is a key way forward and allows a kind of half-way-house.
in writing. − it was appalling to see ukip and certain british conservatives trying to prevent an oral amendment which would protect savers in the current economic climate. their actions were a disgrace.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the peterle report on the eu’s health strategy. the report acknowledges that the provision of health care is a member state matter and i strongly believe that this should remain the case. there are elements in this parliament and in the eu as a whole who believe that health care should be fully opened up to the fluctuations of the free market, and i wholly reject such notions. however the eu does have an important role to play in the exchange of information and in the promotion of health lifestyles. the commission must now come forward with concrete proposals for europe-wide action in health promotion, whilst safeguarding individual member states’ rights to take their own decisions as to the delivery of health services.
in writing. − the coordination of best practice in health policy is important in the eu in order to provide eu citizens with the best possible treatments and health protection.
mr president, just to reassure my austrian colleague, i was in fact a member of the committee on international trade for the first two and a half years of this parliamentary term. i then gave way to a colleague who retired from parliament completely two weeks ago. so, contrary to what you may fear, this is not just a last-minute put-up job.
mr president, i just wanted to raise with you the fact that on the eighth floor of the tower building, in the period since we were last in strasbourg, at least two members’ offices have been opened and goods taken. i would like to know whether this is just an off-chance event or whether there is other evidence of members’ offices being entered and, shall we say, ‘relieved’ of goods during the period when we were not in strasbourg. i find this very disconcerting. if we cannot ensure that our offices are secure while we are not here, then this is a very poor deal.
mr president, given that improving energy efficiency is the most effective way of cutting co2 emissions, and given that the public sector, according to the 2006 directive, is supposed to play an exemplary role in this matter, i am disappointed that there have been no energy-efficiency improvements in connection with the major repairs carried out on the strasbourg parliament building. i would like to know where the building’s energy performance certificate is displayed. furthermore, it is entirely inconsistent for the authorities to have allowed meps, in the corridors of parliament, to sign a life-size model of a bull in support of the written declaration against bullfighting, but not allowed them to sign a banner in support of the written declaration calling for a single seat for the european parliament. a single seat is how we could best cut our energy use and save eur 200 million a year.
mr president, especially at a time of economic crisis, public opinion in many of our member states cannot understand how we spend nearly eur 200 million a year coming here to strasbourg, especially after we have just had a quarter of a year of not doing so, very successfully having our sessions in brussels. furthermore, it is parliament that gets the blame very often, although it is of course the member states, the national governments, who have the power to rectify this situation. since the french presidency is here, may i invite the governments to reconsider this issue, and since we all know we will have to have a solution acceptable to france and to strasbourg, may i suggest that in exchange for the parliament sessions going to brussels, maybe the european council could meet in strasbourg? that would have a certain institutional logic. the commission, the parliament and the ordinary council of ministers, which interact daily, should be in the same town, brussels. the european council, which is a strategic body, should have a certain distance from the day-to-day activities. that could meet in strasbourg, which could confer upon strasbourg just as much prestige as the sessions of the european parliament.
mr president, over the years it has become increasingly apparent that eu taxpayers are sick and tired of paying out eur 200 million every year so that we can work four days a month in strasbourg. but the environmental impact in particular of these trips in a year equate to, i am told, 13 000 transatlantic jumbo jet journeys – and this at a time when parliament itself is trying to impose draconian environmental regulation on european business. surely it is a case of ‘do as i say, not as i do’. the events of august and september have proved that there is no need to travel here and that the parliament building in brussels is more than capable of coping with our official sittings, and that eu citizens would be far happier if we discontinued this monthly commute. i find it rather nonsensical that parliament has so long been incapable of addressing this issue and putting pressure on the council to put an end to this flying circus.
mr president, you will be pleased to know that i am not going to talk about strasbourg, or even the fact that your eyesight is getting worse as about half the members you have called appeared not to be in the room. what i want to talk about is the penhallow fire – which i have mentioned before in this house – a fire disaster which took place on 17 and 18 august last year in my constituency. a newsletter has recently been produced which suggests that the fire doors were not adequate, that sprinklers would have actually saved the hotel from being burnt down and that, in fact, the fire was arson. these are speculations made by an, admittedly inexperienced, fire officer, but the problem is that neither the fire service nor the police have published the official report. as commissioner kuneva is at the moment in the process of looking at proposals for improving hotel fire safety across europe, can i ask her to urge the authorities in the united kingdom to actually publish a report so that we can get to the bottom of this matter?
mr president, as one of the three northern ireland meps involved in securing the original peace funding in 1994, which i believe has made an immense contribution to northern ireland’s social and economic well-being, i would personally like to thank and pay tribute to the hard work of those who, over the years since then, have given freely of their time and put considerable effort into the work of the local strategy partnerships. they have shouldered the burden for the implementation, which i know was a very onerous task. this december they will be stood down, and they have been given little thanks for what they have achieved. many have criticised the peace programme, accusing it of having non-measurable outcomes. however, i say to the critics that they are wrong: what the programme facilitated was cooperation and partnership at local level, and that would not have happened without peace funding. people were brought together to work in partnership who would never have had that opportunity if it had not been for the peace programme. could i ask you, mr president, to write to the overall strategy partnerships board expressing the thanks of this parliament – because we are central to what has been achieved – to those people who have unceremoniously been stood down after all these years of working and giving their contributions freely to the people they hope to help?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, i would also like to welcome this agreement. we do not feel that we are going to get any more if it goes to conciliation, so have supported the rapporteur on this. i admit that, in terms of the presidency looking at this as a step forward to social europe, we would like to feel that it is a step in that direction. i welcome – certainly as a british member – some warm words for once about the uk government position. i hope they are going to be equally constructive on other matters in this field that are before the house at the moment. i think it is very important that in the current climate we are actually making progress on workers’ rights, rather than trying to imply that those doing work on a temporary basis are somehow less important as individuals or less important economically. as someone said, while some work this way from choice, others work in this field because they do not have a choice. for example, in a number of rural areas you may find limited employment possibilities, with one employer basically handing out most of the jobs. if you as a temporary worker dare to question the conditions in which you find yourself, you may actually find that you are never employed by that particular company again. so i think that the legal certainty provided in this agreement is extremely important. it might go some way to help, for example, a person whom i came across in london: the only individual working in a hotel kitchen who was not on a permanent contract was the one whose job was to clean the ovens and to get inside them using heavy-duty chemicals, with no training or protective clothing, because that worker was only temporary and therefore health and safety did not matter so much. so, for people like that, this legislation will be extremely important, and we look forward to its rapid implementation.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, this has been batted to and fro between the commission and the council ever since 2002: six years. there has been no common position until june of this year – but now they pass it to parliament like a hot potato. is this sudden change of mind due to the current economic downturn, i wonder? whether that is so or not, it will not help in these times of rising unemployment, because the report says that temporary workers are to be paid the same as permanent, full-time workers. wrong! at one end, temporary agencies use this to get young people a start in life, or another go. at the other end, inexperienced workers will be paid the same as experienced, long-time employees, which goes right against established practice. this discourages employee loyalty, which every firm needs. more experience equals more skill, equals more pay. it is a bad move. reject it.
madam president, this is a bad piece of legislation – not as bad as it might have been, but nonetheless bad. like so much employment regulation in this parliament, it is introduced in the name of workers’ rights and yet its main effect will be to deny thousands upon thousands of people the right to work at all. it makes our labour markets less competitive and less flexible. it damages our economies at the very time we can least afford to have them damaged. temporary work is widely and correctly recognised as a ladder back into permanent employment for those workers who for some reason have been temporarily out of the labour market. what we are doing in this house today is kicking away that ladder which helped workers back into employment. the british government has been resisting this measure for a long time but has finally found itself unable to resist it. you could not ask for a clearer example of the way the eu subverts democracy in member states.
madam president, may i start by congratulating the rapporteur on his report, not just for what he said, but also for the length of the report – or, should i say, the shortness of the report? in my nine years as a member of this parliament, it is the shortest report i have ever seen from any socialist in the committee on employment and social affairs, and i hope he has set a precedent for some of his colleagues to follow – but we shall come back to that later. i was also glad, and i thank him for this, that he said that the reason for this short report was because, quite correctly, the major stakeholders had both said they were in favour of this common position, leading the council to support it. the trade union side and the business side – not just the general business side but the specific business side, those responsible for agency workers – all said collectively, for whatever set of reasons, ‘yes’: they could sign up to it. i think there is a moral for us as politicians here that, when the stakeholders themselves say that this is what they want, i do think we have a responsibility to try and facilitate that, wherever possible, so i do thank him for using the argument of consensus to get that through. i would finally thank the minister for his reminder to those who may need reminding, that, when the council put together this common position, it was done as part of a package with the working time directive. indeed, our group briefly considered that maybe in the timing of the parliamentary work we should put both dossiers together and discuss them in december. but, having reflected further and because i know the french presidency was very keen to get this show on the road, we were very happy to go along with that, so that, indeed, we could ‘move on’. that, i think, is the message of this dossier: let us move on. when we come to the second part of the package on the working time directive, i hope that from our part we will also show responsibility and move on.
madam president, i am very proud to have taken part in the vote in committee on this directive and to be participating in the debate today on the vote to deliver the temporary agency workers directive. it was a key priority for the labour government in my own country, britain, part of a deal with our trade unions known as the warwick agreement, and today that promise is being delivered. i am delighted to be supporting it and have campaigned for this directive for three reasons. one is that temporary agency workers are vulnerable workers – whatever the protestations of some people opposite. eighty per cent in a british trades union congress (tuc) survey said that they were treated less well in relation to pay, training and paid time off, and they want better. the second is that the biggest number of migrants from eastern europe since the enlargement who have come to work in britain have come to my own region, the east of england, often through temporary work agencies, which, unregulated, have too often been responsible for abuses. those abuses will end. the final reason is that we have a social partnership agreement, rarely seen in britain, between the british tuc and the confederation of british industry (cbi): that agreement is being translated into law in this vote.
madam president, dr johnson was once asked what advice he would give to a young couple contemplating marriage. his reply was ‘don’t’. he also described second marriages as ‘the triumph of hope over experience’. this report must elicit similar responses. what advice should be given to nations contemplating having their divorce laws made by the european union? the answer is obviously ‘don’t’. to do so, given all the precedents of incompetent and damaging eu legislation, is surely the triumph of hope over experience, to say the least. amazingly, that also seems to be the conclusion of the council in this case. the council does not want the proposals made by the commission. the council seems to be very sensibly pulling back from the brink and listening to that old adage, ‘marry in haste, repent at leisure’. what fun it is going to be when the commission comes up with proposals to harmonise gay marriage and sharia law!
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, of course, passenger name records are not a new concept for aviation security. this house has debated both shortcomings and merits on many previous occasions. in general, my concerns are – regardless of whether the system is between the us, canada, australia or in a general eu framework – who will use the data, what will it be used for and how will it be protected? in my opinion, pnr systems are a valuable tool in the fight against terrorism, but we must ensure that the system does not just become another tool to keep data on citizens. the purpose of pnr should be to combat terrorism, and i have to say – i am very sorry to say this – that the commissioner, in his opening statement, did not give me the confidence that that would be the purpose limitation which we all seek. it should be purpose-limited to the organisations whose remit is to fight against terror. counterterrorism measures must not be made an excuse for a catch-all system for personal data. in essence, we must ensure that such systems stick to what they are designed for, which is an aid to the security services to identify and target the people who are the biggest threat. i welcome pnr systems as one part of our approach to counterterrorism but, to the same degree, believe that we must be flexible in our approach when negotiating with third countries. we must approach the important issue of data protection on eu citizens and whether – and in which way – this data is passed to others. thus i urge this house to take pnr seriously as part of a global tool to make our skies safer. as long as we approach the issue in a proportionate manner and reduce the potential for misuse, pnr could serve as a vital tool to protect the innocent traveller and disrupt the potential terrorist. in conclusion, i have always said that, personally, these systems would make me feel safer at 35 000 feet.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i gather there is a new rule, at least for the council presidency, that they do not turn up on mondays! as someone who comes to strasbourg only under protest, i would quite like that rule to apply to me. as the rapporteur said, the schemes for using pnr data are unclear and legally insecure and risk looking like a surveillance state for its own sake. my particular concern is the practice of data mining, and behavioural and identity profiling. apart from the questions of legitimacy and effectiveness, i worry about what happens to a person singled out for attention. this could be because they had an associate of interest to the police. vice-president barrot says that enforcement action cannot be taken solely on the basis of automated processing, but what happens to the original singling out of someone as being of possible interest? we need to have an absolute assurance that that trace is deleted. if data are shared and stored, the dangers of a nasty fate, as happened to maher arrar, rendered to torture for seven months after being picked up at jfk airport, cannot be regarded as fanciful.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, it was a pleasure to work on this document. it is the first time i can honestly, genuinely say it was a pleasure to work with every single person on this dossier, especially the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, in this subject area. i also took the liberty of consulting my constituents through newspaper ads about this particular dossier and so some of the comments i am going to make are based on what my constituents have said about this. in the committee on culture we had a genuinely pleasurable debate about a serious subject with some quite well-informed contributions. we all realised that we did not need to reinvent the wheel. there is a lot of good practice already happening out there as regards self-regulation: mobile telephone companies like t-mobile are leading the way in this area with the various checks and balances they put in before a child can access any content online, let alone dubious content. the isps and organisations such as the internet watch foundation in the uk and inhope on a european basis are really working well together to fight the problems that exist with some of the online content and how minors across europe are getting on to it. there are problems, though. grooming was mentioned by the rapporteur. there is no common definition of this even across europe and it is not illegal in all member states yet to groom a child in the way that mrs angelilli said. that is something that we should be looking at. possibly mrs reding could suggest this at a council meeting or two to some of the countries that are slacking in this area. for me it was a pleasure to work on this in my committee; some great experiences were shared, and it is the first time i can welcome a budgetary measure in this house.
mr president, can i use my speech tonight to appeal to all eu countries to follow the practice in britain for hotlines to be given notice and take-down powers, namely that when online images of child sexual abuse are discovered and reported, the hotline can immediately order the content to be removed by the service provider or host company. this proposal is being championed by the internet watch foundation based in oakington in cambridgeshire in my constituency. indeed, i want to thank commissioner reding for the eu-wide remit she has given to them. our parliamentary amendment 25 calling for the establishment of these hotlines and their close liaison with the police can advance this aim. speedy enforcement action is needed to stop sites simply hopping servers between countries in order to avoid detection, as well as to stop the further child abuse which is perpetuated not just when the images are formed but also every time they are viewed.
mr president, it is an unfortunate reality that the wonderful opportunities the internet presents to us all have, in direct proportion, increased the moral, physical and social danger to our children and young people throughout the world. this report is therefore right to focus on what we can do to thwart abuse of the internet, particularly with regard to child pornography, online grooming and incitement to self-harm, one of the most chilling aspects of which is sites which actually encourage suicide. i trust that the safer internet programme will indeed successfully tackle these problems. for me there are three key issues. firstly, improving the facility for effective police cooperation and i think that the european child pornography images database must be encouraged. secondly, better traceability of the financial movements which are linked to child pornography, and thirdly, a properly advanced common kite safety mark, so that parents can know with confidence what is safe for their children to look at.
mr president, the constant refrain of the commission – and, indeed, of this report – is ever-declining cod stocks. yet this year, within the eu, we will dump eur 50 million worth of dead cod back into the sea. why? because of our crazy policy on discards. the tacs have been driven so low that massive discards are being produced. probably one discard for every cod retained. year on year, we drive down tacs and push up the discards as a result, and so perpetuate this self-defeating eco-crazy policy. whether a cod is retained or discarded, it reduces the biomass. increase the tacs, and i believe you will correspondingly reduce the discards and swell the food supply, without depleting the biomass more than we do at present through discards. that, i believe, is the way to go, along with cod avoidance plans, and then some sense might come to this policy.
mr president, i have to commend my good friend niels busk for his brave attempt at yet another cod recovery plan. ever since i was elected in 1999, we have had a cod recovery plan every year. every cod recovery plan introduces even tougher regulations and even tougher draconian measures. because we are dealing with a mixed fishery where the cod is caught together with prawns, whiting and haddock, we have all these discard problems that we have just heard jim allister talking about. i am afraid that i feel in this case that mr busk is emulating his famous danish forbear, king canute, who was king of denmark and england in the 10th century and famously sat on his throne at the seaside and ordered the tide not to come in. of course, history records that he got very wet and narrowly avoided drowning. trying to introduce a cod recovery plan – a management plan that will help cod recover – is, in fact, trying to defy nature in the same way. we know that climate change has caused the north sea to warm up by one and a half degrees and the fighter plankton that the cod larvae feed on have moved hundreds of miles north, which is why most of the big mature cod that we buy in the shops anywhere in europe comes from around norway, the faroes and iceland. so until the north sea cools down again, you are not going to see the cod recovering, and all the tough management plans that we want to introduce will not make any difference. i am delighted, in that case, that i have heard the commissioner this evening say that he accepts my amendment that will at least look at the impact of climate change on cod recovery, as well as looking at the impact on cod predation by seals. we now have 170 000 grey seals in the north sea, each one eating two tons of fish a year – including a lot of cod – and previously it was not pc to speak about seals in any shape or form. so at least looking at the impact seals have on the cod population is, i think, a very important step this evening. i commend king canute to the house and hope that his report is accepted.
i scríbhinn. – ba mhaith liom fáilte ó chroí a chur roimh thuarascáil iontach an uasail beaupuy maidir le rialachas agus comhpháirtíocht. is trua nach gcloítear i gcónaí le prionsabal na comhpháirtíochta agus caiteachas cistí struchtúracha á chur i bhfeidhm. leis sin féin, chonaic mé roinnt samplaí den scoth i dtuaisceart na héireann den dóigh ar chóir don chomhpháirtíocht oibriú agus chonaic mé na buntáistí is féidir a bheith ag comhpháirtíocht nuair a dhéantar í mar is ceart. ina theannta sin, cuirim fáilte ó chroí roimh éileamh na tuarascála i dtaca le húdaráis áitiúla agus réigiúnacha chun a gcomhoibriú agus a dteagmháil le leibhéil eile rialachais, go háirithe leis an choimisiún eorpach, a threisiú. caithfidh an tionól i dtuaisceart na héireann tógáil ar na naisc atá bunaithe cheana féin leis an choimisiún eorpach. is fíor seo go háirithe i dtaca leis an obair atá déanta ag an tascfhórsa a bhunaigh uachtarán an choimisiúin, an tuasal barroso. tá an tionól i dtuaisceart na héireann agus ár bpobail áitiúla réidh le tabhairt faoi ról níos mó i gcur i bhfeidhm chláir an ae ag leibhéal an phobail. leagann an tuarascáil seo amach conas is féidir an cumasú sin a bhaint amach.
the next item is the report by jan andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on challenges to collective agreements in the eu (2008/2085(ini)) (a6-0370/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i congratulate mr andersson on an excellent report. i would like to start with a partial quote from paragraph 12 in the report. it says ‘believes that the intention of the legislator in the posting of workers directive and services directive is incompatible with the interpretations given by the court’. i agree with that. i was a legislator on both of those directives and never expected that they – when looked at alongside the treaty – would lead the court to the conclusion that the economic freedoms take precedence over fundamental rights for workers. when this sort of thing happens the legislator should act to restore legal certainty. we are a co-legislator and this resolution makes it very clear what we think needs to be done. but, commissioner, we cannot discharge our duty as legislator until you exercise your right of initiative. i co-chair and co-convene the trade union intergroup in this place. this includes all of the main political groups and brings me into contact with many trade unionists – not only in brussels and strasbourg, but out in the regions – and i can tell you that there is widespread and spreading anxiety because of the imbalance thrown up by these judgments. commissioner, this is very serious in the approach to next year’s european elections. if trade unionists out there decide that europe is part of the problem, instead of part of the solution, that could be very damaging for all sections of this house and for the democratic process itself. i am glad to hear you say that you think the posting of workers directive needs improvement, because one of the things we want is a revision of that directive to at least make it clear how collective agreements can be used to put minimum terms and conditions in place and to say how collective action can be used to protect those rights. so, commissioner, please listen to this directly elected institution. we do have our ears to the ground. use your right of initiative and show that you see the need to act.
madam president, the ppe-de group did not support jan andersson’s report as originally drafted. however, as the result of good work by our shadow, working with other shadows, to quite considerably rewrite the report, we were comfortable with supporting it in committee. indeed, our group will also be proposing to support it today in its current form. having said that, there are certain amendments which we are also keen to see supported. hopefully, he will give consideration to that on his side. i will just pick up on one very important point. stephen hughes referred to the fact – which i am sure is true – that there is widespread anxiety amongst trade unions regarding possible limitations on the right to strike. i would not argue with that, but i hope he would not argue with me when i say that there is widespread anxiety amongst workers about potential limitations upon the right to work. i have not heard enough – either in this debate or in the committee – about that important right. of course the right to strike is a fundamental right: that is not in dispute. but the right to work – the freedom to work – is also a very important right, and that is something that, on this side of the house, we would like to see underlined.
a uachtaráin, tá ceardchumainn ag cailleadh a gceart chun idirbheartú a dhéanamh ar son feabhsuithe ina gcuid pá agus i gcoinníollacha a mball. tá cosc ar rialtais reachtaíocht a rith ar mhaithe le feabhsuithe a dhéanamh i saol oibrithe. aontaím le mo chomhghleacaithe anseo inniu gurb é an t-íosriachtanas atá de dhíth chun a chinntiú nach dtarlaíonn a leithéid ná alt um dhul chun cinn sóisialta a bheith ina cheangal sna conarthaí ae. ní théann tuarascáil jan andersson go croí an ábhair go fóill i mo bharúilse. d’fhéadfaí í a neartú trí chúpla leasú. tugann cúirt bhreithiúnais na heorpa breithiúnas ar bhonn conarthaí. a fhad is a cheadaíonn na conarthaí sin srianta ar chearta oibrithe agus ísliú pá agus coinníollacha, ní féidir leis an chúirt breithiúnas a thabhairt ar shlí eile.
in writing. – the andersson report is a useful contribution to this controversial and highly legally complex debate. in particular, its recommendation that eu countries should properly enforce the posted workers directive, and the demand that the commission draft legislative proposals to deal with the legal loopholes thrown up by the judgments and prevent any conflicting interpretation of the law, are welcome. we have to ensure that the posted workers directive does not allow social dumping and for collective agreements to be undermined by workers from other eu countries undercutting wages and working conditions in the host country. we should not blame the court, which merely clarifies what the law says – after all, the court has also given numerous favourable judgments from a social perspective – rather, we should focus our attention on rectifying the underlying legal situation. the commission itself stated in april this year that the fundamental right to strike and to join a trade union does not override the right to provide services. it is vital that this report does not mark the end of the debate. if necessary, we should use our powers to veto the new commission if they do not include the necessary legislative proposals in their first work programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i address my remarks to the president-in-office of the council. president-in-office, you brought us warm and encouraging words from last week’s council. you said that council and parliament must work hand in hand – ‘travailler main dans la main’ – but our job is to read the small print. why do the council conclusions refer only to cooperation between council and commission? (applause)why in all the paragraphs on climate change is there no mention whatsoever of the european parliament? in paragraph 16 of this document, you should have invited the european parliament – not just the commission – to work with you; and recognise that council and parliament will decide, not the council alone. moreover, president-in-office, you will find you need the european parliament because some member states are trying to unpick properly reached agreements. europe must stick to its negotiated targets. it is dishonest of some governments to say that the new economic climate makes those agreements unachievable. new emissions targets for the car industry will not be in force until 2012: the emission-sharing proposals apply only after 2013, long after the global economy is forecast to pick up. postponing action now will invite climate catastrophe and an even bigger bill. we need more than the council agreed last week. president-in-office, you rightly recognise the power of the markets. since the berlin wall fell, 50 million europeans have been lifted out of poverty because the free movement of goods, services and people is the key to europe’s prosperity. more than that, it is vital to our liberty. today we are seeing what happens when markets lack accountability. in recent weeks the global finance system has stared into an abyss and we need concerted action to pull it back. so my group welcomes the council’s consolidation of the measures agreed by the euro area. they have alleviated the pressure on the interbank markets. now we need to steer interest rates downwards to alleviate recession. we also welcome the commission’s capital requirements directive, the new accounting standards and the plans to control credit rating agencies. europe must also play a leading role in negotiating a global system of financial governance. while rules are necessary, so are the means to enforce them. the summit failed to agree an effective regime to supervise the financial system in europe. i have made the case for a european financial services authority and it is rumoured that the president-in-office also favours rigorous supervision at european level. by all means, try with the americans to get a global agreement but proceed without them if they will not play ball. supervision of the financial services industry remains the missing piece of the jigsaw. president-in-office, you are a man of action. your actions underline the case for a full-time president of the council. you draw attention to our successes. in august, europe kept the tanks out of tbilisi. this month europe has kept the banks in business. if, in december, europe acts to preserve the planet then we should convince even the most sceptical that we need the lisbon treaty. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i address my remarks to the president-in-office of the council. president sarkozy, it was your own energy, dynamism and initiative that sent you off to georgia and russia to try and broker a deal. you did it off your own bat. you were not acting on behalf of the european union. it is a delusion if anybody in this place thinks you were. there had been no council meeting, there was no resolution and there was no mandate. you did it as the french president, and well done to you! however, if you are proposing that that is the model on which we should decide our foreign affairs in the future – the idea that a permanent president or a permanent foreign minister decides on the hoof what the foreign policy of all of us should be and goes off and does this without reference to national governments and national parliaments – the answer has to be: no, thank you very much indeed! as far as the financial crisis is concerned, i am delighted that your original plan that everybody should club their money together in the middle fell to pieces. it was a good thing that the irish, greeks and germans went off and acted in their own national interests. what happened at the summit was more a case of nation states agreeing with each other – which is fine and which i am happy with. i have not heard anybody today recognise that this financial crisis is as much as anything else a failure of regulation. we have not had a lack of regulation: out of the financial services action plan for the last 10 years we have had a blizzard of regulation! it has damaged the competitiveness of places like london and it has not protected a single investor. so please, more regulation is not the answer. we need to rethink what we have been doing. i think we need to start acting in our own national interest. the fact that our banks cannot pay dividends for the next five years, whereas the swiss banks can, is something that proves that if you have the flexibility and adaptability of being outside the european union you can weather financial crises far better than being stuck in the middle.
madam president, on a point of order. we have yet again a further example of the ludicrous mismanagement of the affairs of this chamber. it is about time that the presidency realised that when votes are to be held they should be held at the time promulgated, and no one is more important than the exercise of our democratic rights during votes. i ask you, please, to raise, at the presidency, how our affairs are managed, so that that they can be improved and we vote at the right time and speeches are kept to the right length. (applause)
madam president, it is a pity that the president-in-office of the council has gone, because i had a message for him, but i hope mr jouyet will take it. what he said this morning on climate change is extremely important, and he was right to remind mr nassauer that now is not the time to abandon our climate change ambitions and to water down the proposals before us. (applause) there has been a huge lobby in this parliament and in the council. it started long before the financial crisis broke this summer: it started last year. hardly was the ink dry in berlin when people started to try and water it down. president sarkozy asked for the engagement of parliament. he is going to get more than the engagement: he is going to get us in codecision. i do not know why we are even discussing the importance of codecision: there will be no climate change package without the codecision of this parliament. we want agreement by christmas. the socialist group can give you that commitment. i am not sure about the other side – perhaps mr sarkozy will ask his people. the socialist group wants a commitment by christmas, but not any agreement. we want a credible agreement; we want one that balances environment, jobs and competitiveness. we do not, however, want one which is the lowest common denominator. president sarkozy just reminded us about what happens if you go for the lowest common denominator. we know that individual countries have problems – and we can talk about them – but we need to have a package that is credible for the international talks, not one based on offsets in other countries because that is not a credible package, and not one which dismantles the emissions trading scheme and destroys the carbon price. president-in-office, i hope you will take these messages back to mr sarkozy. mr nassauer talked about the cost of the climate change package. today we are throwing billions and billions at the financial crisis that our banks are facing. of course, there is a cost which the commission has worked out for the package, but i do not want to go back to our citizens in a few years time and say that, because we failed to act here and now on climate change, billions more will need to be found. worse than the money involved, lives will be destroyed all over the planet. let us have some political courage from all sides of this house; let us go forward and make the agreement with the council and do it before christmas in time for the international talks. (applause)
madam president, to the president-in-office, but now in absentia, i would say: you spoke eloquently this morning about the challenge to our economic future, which is rightly at the top of our agenda, but no less rightly and no less eloquently you made it clear at the summit, and again today, that your intention is to maintain the timetable and the targets for tackling climate change. your words are fundamental and right. the climate change package, you said, is so important that we cannot simply lose it under the pretext of a financial crisis. it was very significant that chancellor merkel, despite the real concerns her country and others have, made it clear that germany spoke out in favour of implementing the climate change targets and finding solutions before the december summit. if that is the challenge you give us, i believe parliament will respond, effectively and in good time. but the focus now, i have to say, is with the council. to achieve this, we will need reassurances for the countries which have real problems, as poland does with coal. we will need to be clear about the criteria for the lighter touch which we know will be provided for a limited list of industries and sectors faced with real leakage challenges. we must also be very clear that our support for biofuels in transport is dependent on the development of fuels from sustainable sources. without that, we could do irreparable damage to our environment and to the habitats of people, wildlife and plant life. we have set ourselves an enormous challenge, but it is one that we cannot afford to lose. an environmental disaster would make our current economic problems pale into insignificance. as president sarkozy said, the two policies must ride together. but we must just make sure – and the president must make sure – that parliament is not left stranded by the council’s inability to follow his lead.
madam president, it would not be far-fetched to liken the crisis in the financial markets to a hurricane: once the wind abates there is an illusion of calm, but the devastation left behind takes years to clear up, and so it will be with the economic and social consequences of the turmoil we have seen. we have to strike a balance between continuity and adaptation in the light of changed circumstances. in terms of energy policy, that means sticking to strategic aims on security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness, while considering whether we need to change the tactics, the means. energy is vital to our way of life and standard of living. it is a long-term industry, where building new capacity takes 5, 10 or 15 years and obviously cannot be a short-term answer to short-term challenges of the sort we face. in the same vein, tackling climate change is a long-term matter, and there is no silver bullet or simple solution. as regards tactics, there are those who have reservations about the level and timing of the targets within the climate-energy package. there are those who were anxious about carbon leakage or the offshoring of european jobs, well before the financial crisis. maybe we have to look at the detail, if not the principle involved, again. however, my main concern at this time is what we should avoid doing, and that is falling into the trap of overregulation, because overregulation could precipitate something much worse: a re-run of the 1930s slump. i know well the importance of good regulation for making markets function well and for transparency, but let us not kill off the goose that lays the golden egg.
madam president, thank you for calling me. i and the conservative delegation to parliament voted against this gebhardt report. before i came to parliament i practised law in the united kingdom, including, from time to time, divorce law. i think this would be a retrograde step to take. it is a matter for each nation state to determine the law which would be applicable to such matters. there is no need whatsoever for the european commission or any other european body to interfere. all our countries have different traditions, different views of divorce, different faiths, different religions, different backgrounds, and it is right and proper that each individual country should reflect that. we should not accept the imposition of any superior body telling us what to do. thank you for giving me this opportunity and for achieving a memorable moment in my political career when i can truthfully say that i have spoken, apart from to you, madam president, to a completely and utterly empty chamber!
in writing. − i did not support the busk report. we all know that is important to see a recovery of cod stocks. it is clear that cod can be a collateral catch when fishing for other species. yet the proposal here to reduce the overall fishing intensity in the area from cornwall to the severn estuary is drastic and dramatic. as the mep for the region in question, i am not yet – i could be with more evidence – convinced of the need to go so far, so fast.
in writing. − i welcome this effort to address the problems related to the 2004 cod recovery plan which has clearly proven to be ineffective. despite various measures, cod stocks have shown little sign of recovery. the most important point made in this proposal relates to reducing discards. in the current climate of food shortages and extremely challenging times for fishermen, this can only be described as a totally illogical and wasteful practice. the quota for total allowable catches is so low and fishermen are forced to throw back large quantities of fish into the sea, despite the fact that this practice contributes nothing to the effort to replenish stocks. of course, we must continue to take measures which protect our cod stocks. however, we should also bear in mind the bigger picture. climate change and the impact of global warming may have more to do depleted stocks than fishermen simply trying to make a living out of this industry.
in writing. − madam president, i voted in favour of this report, and i hope that the extension of the erasmus mundus programme to 2013 will continue to provide an important bridge between different cultures. the benefits of this educational programme are evident – not only will the eu benefit from attracting intelligent, high-flying students from third countries, which will improve eu research and innovation, but our own students will also gain improved language skills and increase their employability, both at home and abroad. above all, i think this programme is particularly pertinent, given that this is the year of intercultural dialogue. building links with third countries through education fosters understanding and communication between different cultures, languages and faiths. this is precisely the kind of programme that the european parliament should be supporting, and i welcome it wholeheartedly.
mr president, the kremlin has got all it wanted from its bargain with president sarkozy. president sarkozy’s ‘peace in our time’ deal gave them what they wanted, and the diplomatic way out. since the second world war, the fundamental principle in international relations was that aggression must not pay, or that political concessions should not be made to aggressors, but moscow has been victorious and nato humiliated, with the eu playing both sides. as an institution, the european union is simply not on the democratic western side in the new cold war. the eu does not belong to the free world. it is anti-democratic, undemocratic and imperialistic. institutionally, it is inclined to side with other anti-democratic empires, not free nations. the eu is not governed by law but by ideology. unfortunately, european governments – as good europeans – will choose to follow the eu’s disastrous position towards russia, rather than their own collective national interest.
mr president, i have three questions to the commissioner. she has spoken in favour of the resumption of talks, following colleague hökmark. what are the eu interests that she will pursue during these talks? will she require russian troops – 8 000 of which are still on georgian territory – to withdraw, in particular from the kodori gorge, which abkhazi regulars have illegally occupied, again taking it from georgian troops? secondly, will russia consider contributing to the funds required to repair the damage to georgian citizens and the georgian infrastructure which their troops caused? finally, is it the case that she has information that, whereas saakashvili is accused of behaving intemperately, there were in fact 400 russian tanks... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i would like to pay a special tribute to mr sarkozy, under the french presidency, for ensuring that 90% of the six-point plan has been complied with in terms of troop withdrawal from georgia. i think the russian leadership under mr putin and medvedev have belatedly realised that their disproportionate aggression in georgia was a mistake, as they still need good relations with the west or face economic ruin. furthermore, only venezuela, nicaragua and terrorist hamas have actually recognised south ossetia and abkhazia, which is an embarrassment to their government, and their closest allies, such as belarus and uzbekistan, have resisted such pressures to go along with russia’s new and recently discovered concept of self-determination, which was never applied to the chechens. russia must understand that 19th-century spheres of influence do not apply to the modern world, and hands off ukraine, and in particular crimea; hands off moldova, or the south caucasus republics for the future. their territorial integrity must be respected by moscow in the... (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i have to say – and rather sadly – that i remain sceptical as to whether the human rights clause within the eu-vietnam cooperation agreement is really worth the paper it is written on. the noble intentions contained within it are a reflection, understandably, of our common european values, but i believe it is little more than window-dressing and an understandable concession to the powerful human rights lobby within the union. after all, china is now the eu’s second-largest trading partner, yet the communist dictatorship in beijing pays no attention to our concern about human rights. indeed, i sometimes wonder whether it is even worth raising the issue any more. the political repression and human rights violations in china tend to distract us from what is going on in neighbouring vietnam, where things are every bit as brutal. pro-democracy dissidents and religious minorities are imprisoned, journalists are intimidated into silence, and the liberties we take for granted here in europe, such as an uncensored internet, simply do not exist. that is why i proposed last year, with mr cappato and others, that thich quang do should be considered for the nobel peace prize. this brave buddhist monk has suffered years of harassment and jail in his quest for religious freedom and human rights. vietnam encapsulates the dilemma facing the european union. how much should human rights matter in our commercial relationships with third countries when they are formally written into trade agreements and partnership agreements? and can stronger economic ties alone be a positive force for political and human rights and democracy reforms? these are tough questions which the new commissioner from britain for trade, baroness ashton, will have to grapple with. i believe our common values to be non-negotiable. therefore, i urge the commission and council either to be honest and scrap this pretence by abolishing these human rights and democracy clauses, or genuinely and sincerely to hold third countries to account for their wanton abuse of values that we all hold sacrosanct. i pay a very special tribute to mr cappato and all the fine work he has done in this respect.
mr president, despite the past protestations from the vietnamese government that they guarantee religious freedom, and despite the best efforts of the last speaker to whitewash the regime in vietnam, the reality is very different, particularly for isolated christian groups. while confiscation of church property has been rife, those linked to unregistered evangelical house churches have been particular targets for state persecution. just months ago, a young tribal man who refused to repudiate his christian faith died from injuries inflicted under official interrogation; hundreds remain in prison for their faith where ill-treatment is rampant. i salute their courage, i condemn their persecutors, but above all i appeal to this eu not to put improving relations with vietnam and trade above defending and demanding basic human rights for these human beings of very great faith. we must not, for the sake of trade or other short-term gain, sanitise the outrageous human rights record of hanoi.
mr president, our resolution today does not simply raise our concerns over freedom of expression, repression of dissent and religious discrimination in vietnam. it calls on the european union to account for what is being achieved through our human rights dialogue and to set clear benchmarks for improvement in moving towards a partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam. we can never accept that when a journalist uncovers evidence of embezzlement of usd 750 000 within the transport ministry, in part used to wage bets on english premiership football matches, that journalist should find himself in jail. we can never accept the use of the death penalty for 29 different offences, for us not one offence. executions, we are told, take place at 4 a.m., without warning, which means that prisoners never sleep before six o’clock in the morning for fear that their time has come. and we can never accept threats and intimidation against the catholic church such as that which followed the peaceful mass protests in hanoi last month. amnesty international recorded one woman leaving church to find a gang shouting ‘kill the archbishop!’ and ‘kill the priests!’ vietnam has been a party to the international covenant on civil and political rights since 1982. the current evidence presents a clear breach of articles 2 and 18. what is more, in july vietnam took charge of the presidency of the un security council. we call on european negotiators to make clear to the vietnamese government that any aspiration to uphold international law in international institutions has to be matched by respect for it at home.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr cappato, i believe that we must not confuse the meaning of having been a victim of imperialism with the meaning of respect for human rights today. i do not exchange the victims of chemical weapons for the victims of religious freedom violations. all of this forms an absolutely indivisible whole. in reply to mr tannock and also to mr cappato, we should not underestimate the value of the human rights suspension clause. it is only to see the difficulty of concluding other agreements which are often negotiated for almost twenty years with other groups of states - i am thinking of the gulf states. it is also worth noting how this clause has worked out for certain acp countries in the context of the cotonou agreements. this shows that the european union is serious about promoting human rights in these agreements. as regards the additional concessions requested by mr cappato, it is precisely the negotiations being conducted by the commission which must ensure that - and the commissioner has stressed this point - progress is made by the vietnamese authorities in this area. they'll be appreciated in a group setting. once again, i believe that it is through dialogue that we will achieve a change in these countries' relations with the european union. and it is through this type of agreement and this type of clause that the union best promotes those values to which you and we, mr cappato and others in this house, are very clearly committed.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think it is very clear that we all want to address the question of human rights whenever and wherever possible. as i said, i just did so a few weeks ago, and i did so when i went there two years ago. i remember then i was also able to obtain the liberation of a few prisoners, so there is indeed a possibility. what we also do is provide lists to them and say here, here and here, something has to be done. i think this was therefore an important debate because it has re-focused our ideas on the particular issue of religious communities and, in this specific case, of christians and catholics. we have to focus very clearly on these questions, but at the same time i would also like to say that we know that vietnam is also now facing a difficult economic and social situation, so, if vietnam is not careful, investment will not come from foreign countries, particularly european countries. this is also a very good instrument that we have in addition to mere dialogue. for instance, we will certainly ask for a gesture of clemency on the part of the vietnamese authorities in favour of the two journalists who were recently imprisoned and have been judged in hanoi for having used their freedom of expression. that is something that we will clearly also mention again. finally, i would like to say that vietnam will next time be subject to a periodical, universal review of its human rights situation in geneva, and that will be another excellent occasion to very clearly mark the questions and see what has been done so far.
the debate is closed. i have received four motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 108(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is question time (b6-0475/2008). the following questions are addressed to the council. i am sorry to say that we are short of time, but i intend to suspend the sitting at 19.00 as planned. mr jouyet has been here all afternoon, as has mrs ferrero-waldner.
president of the council. - mr president, i wanted to tell mr moraes that the proposal for a directive laying down the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of highly skilled employment, the so-called 'blue card' proposal, was presented by the commission to the council in october 2007, as he knows. the proposal aims to encourage highly qualified third-country nationals to settle in the european union. to make the union more attractive, this proposal establishes common rules for their admission, recognises equal treatment with union nationals in several areas, and offers blue card holders mobility opportunities within the union. as you know, this proposal is one of the priorities of the french presidency, in the context of the pact on immigration and asylum. on 25 september the council supported this initiative and, on the basis of a compromise presented by the presidency, this compromise concerns, on the one hand, the definitions of high professional qualification and higher education diploma and, on the other hand, the relationship with national law and, finally, the minimum wage threshold from which a derogation is provided for in case of special need for a profession. the council has given the permanent representatives committee a mandate to finalise the examination of the text with a view to arriving at a proposal very quickly, and final adoption can take place after the adoption of your opinion on this proposal. i think that will be possible in the november part-session.
thank you for that comprehensive answer. the blue card could be a great achievement if it is comprehensive, if it is fair and balanced. in that respect, may i ask the council how to avoid the issue of brain drain, or cherry-picking of the best workers not just from developing countries but from emerging economies as well? will there be some connection between eu governments, the commission and the governments – particularly the labour ministries of those countries – to ensure that, while we get the best workers and we compete for the best workers, we do not then drain those emerging and developing economies of some of their best people; that we monitor this issue and preserve freedom of choice, but that we get the blue card right, because it could be a very positive development for this place?
president of the council. - mr president, i think that is precisely what we are trying to do, to reconcile the fact that europe still needs migrants. it is clear that we will be in a situation of demographic imbalance and attractiveness compared to other regions of the world and that, therefore, we must keep an open policy, not only within the union but also towards the emerging countries and that we must ensure, in this context, on the one hand, that we have a legal framework related to economic migration and, on the other hand, to find balanced agreements with the countries of origin by combining what is both our capacity for reception and, on the other hand, avoiding for them, which is a brain drain. i believe that one of the most innovative elements of the pact on immigration and asylum, which has been accepted by the 27 member states, is to take account of these new phenomena of economic migration and to give them this framework. and indeed, yes - to answer you, mr president - we are trying to follow in this area what has been done in the united states with intelligence and efficiency.
question no 2 by liam aylward (h-0705/08) subject: effects of hazard-based approach on food prices and pest resistance assuming that a hazard-based approach will reduce the number of pesticides on the market, what does the council consider will be the future outcome on pest resistance and the consequential crop production in the eu, effects on food prices/security and the consequences for the developing world? (some experts believe that the eu will source more food from the developing world, resulting in increased food prices there with a consequential effect on those on the edge of poverty.)
president of the council. - as regards plant protection products, a 'pesticides' package is currently on the council's table and aims to revise the regulation on the placing of these products on the market and a directive on their sustainable use. the aim is to ensure that the use of pesticides is compatible with the preservation of the environment and the protection of health and, of course, the impact of the package on the resistance of harmful organisms must be taken into account. it is on this basis that the council adopted a common position on 15 september. this position provides that the approval of active substances used in pesticides will be subject to an examination of the hazards and risks to human and animal health and the environment. the stakes are absolutely critical. it is also a matter of protecting our citizens, since there are dangerous substances such as those which are carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic to reproduction or which may have disruptive effects on the endocrine system. and therefore these substances should not be used. the impact on agricultural production is also taken into account by the council because the council is determined to ensure that the new legislation does not have a negative impact on the costs or availability of food in europe or other regions of the world. the revision of legislation on pesticides and plant protection must, on the contrary, make it possible to strengthen the free movement of products by mutual recognition of product authorizations in the same area and the rationalization of the procedures for the approval of active substances at european level, all in the service of modernising european agriculture and better protecting our consumers and citizens.
following up the last question, what is it that the council has to fear about a proper impact assessment so that we might know the real impact of your proposals on food production in europe? this affects both producers and consumers. producers and consumers have a lot to lose if pesticides, which presently are vital to crop production, are removed with no available substitute. what, for example, are potato-growers in northern europe with their wet climate to do when there is no substitute to deal with potato blight? are we simply to say ‘too bad’? are we to say to our consumers, ‘let’s import from countries which have no regard for pesticide controls’? really, is it not time to reconsider and to make a proper impact assessment on these proposals?
question no 3 by seán ó neachtain (h-0707/08) subject: accessing funding under eu research technology and development programmes what initiatives is the council putting in place to ensure that european businesses are fully aware of how to draw down funding under eu research technology and development programmes, which are to be worth over €55bn to eu businesses between 2007 and 2013?
president of the council. - i would like to say frankly to mr ó neachtain that, in view of the items which will already be on the agenda of the european council in december, i do not think that this issue will be raised at the european council, despite the challenges it poses. this must be done in the context of the research and competitiveness councils. my feeling is that a lot has already been done to improve the information system. in reply to mrs riera, i think there is still a lot to be done. tomorrow, a political agreement will be reached between the commission, the council and parliament on communication to make european actions better known. i think this is an important step, but i think that what is important beyond this - and mrs doyle is quite right to insist on this, as is mrs riera - is that we multiply the points of practical information. and i think that your assembly has a very important supervisory role to play in ensuring that these points of practical information - to whom should one address oneself?
question no 4 by brian crowley (h-0709/08) subject: emergency relief following natural disasters what proposals have been brought forward by the council presidency to expand and improve the operation of emergency relief assistance in the eu following natural disasters, flooding, fires, etc?
president of the council. - in reply to mr crowley, europe has experienced an increasing number of major disasters and crises in recent years. the forest fires and floods that have recently struck several european countries have shown that it is essential to improve the efficiency and capacity of the union to respond to emergency situations. we must do this in a spirit of solidarity and protection of the citizens. we must stand together in solidarity and unity and protect citizens inside and outside the union. this is why the presidency has made strengthening the union's capacity to respond to disasters and crises one of its priorities. on the basis of the existing community instruments, and in particular the community civil protection mechanism, we must make progress in the various phases of disaster response, namely, first, prevention, research and information. we must intensify the work on the implementation of early warning systems. secondly, through crisis preparedness: this involves strengthening management and response capacities and coordination between all relevant bodies at community and international level. and through this intervention we want to increase european capacity for humanitarian aid and civil protection and thus improve the community civil protection mechanism around a centre which is more operational. so there are various competent working groups working on these issues within the council, and the council will be dealing with this before the end of the year. the presidency, i would also point out for the information of the honourable members, will be organising a full-scale civil protection exercise on 4 and 6 november, involving all the civil protection directors-general of the member states. this will enable us to see on the ground what progress needs to be made in this very important area.
minister, could i direct you to the entry threshold under the eu solidarity fund. it is set, as i understand it, at something like eur 3 billion. it is set at the same level for a large country as for a small region and a large region. in consequence, you can have a level of devastation from flooding such as we had in northern ireland this summer where it is very extensive in that specific region yet, because it falls below the threshold and does not extend to the whole nation, there is no access to the eu solidarity fund. is that fair? does that not need to be looked at, and do you not also need to look at the foolish hoops which agricultural producers in particular have to jump through in order to try and access this funding?
question no 5 by eoin ryan (h-0711/08) subject: food security in an unequal partnership as the eu pledges to continue to introduce initiatives to ensure security of food supply to the developing world, what is the council doing about developing world allegations that the eu is exploiting an unequal partnership, firstly through the negotiation of trade deals that are, in the words of the un economic commission for africa, 'not sufficiently inclusive’ and ‘lacking in transparency’ and that allow the eu to benefit from the african countries’ lack of capacity to handle legal complexities and secondly by securing european food supply at the expense of, among others, west african fisheries?
question 6 has been ruled inadmissible as it is similar to a question answered at the september ii part-session.
my point relates to this whole question of air safety. there have been a number of incidents reported where passengers, sometimes british, sometimes of other nationalities, have taken on too much alcohol during the flight and been a danger to other passengers and indeed the whole aircraft. do you think that there is a case for not allowing passengers on board aeroplanes who have alcohol with them?
question no 8 by robert evans (h-0721/08) subject: electronic passports with the absence of a visual check by a responsible officer, what assurances can the council give that the use of electronic passports at some airports will not lessen security or increase the opportunity for impersonation?
like the minister, i have no wish to make europe into a fortress, and i want sensible security checks and to use new technology. but i have witnessed the use of these passports, and i wonder if he can tell me where i am going wrong, because what happens is a person in possession of an electronic passport comes up to a machine, places his or her passport on the reader and then walks through if the passport is in order. i cannot see how that is doing anything other than checking whether that person is in possession of a valid passport. what it is not doing is checking that the person has one that has been issued in his or her name. my understanding, therefore, is that there would be nothing to stop me using your passport, minister – providing you were to lend it to me – to go through a check, because there is nobody there to see whether the picture and the person is the same, or i could be using the passport of a distinguished person like mr mcmillan-scott. i wonder if you can give me an assurance as to where the check is actually taking place concerning the ownership and the actual identity of the person.
question no 9 by marian harkin (h-0723/08) subject: volunteering could the council say if the french presidency would be supportive of asking eurostat to recommend implementation of the un handbook on non-profit institutions in the system of national accounts in light of the fact that this is one area of the statistical system that touches the citizens of europe in a direct way and therefore validates the involvement of citizens in voluntary activities by giving it explicit visibility in the statistical system for the first time?
questions 10 and 11 have been merged as they are very similar, but their authors will both get the chance to put supplementary questions to the minister.
it was actually the council that asked for the questions to be put together.
question no 12 by jim higgins (h-0728/08) subject: situation in zimbabwe could the council indicate if it has re-evaluated its stance on the situation in zimbabwe, due to the fact that at the time of writing the efforts to broker an agreement by thabo mbeki have failed and the people of zimbabwe continue to suffer hardship, while the european union continues to be a bystander viewing the failed negotiations?
i have two supplementaries to this question, but this will be the last question. i am afraid that i am going to have to draw things to a close now. i would like to thank the minister for his very comprehensive replies. anybody who is in the chamber and has a question down will receive a written reply. (interjection from the floor by gay mitchell)i realise your problem, mr mitchell. i am keeping to the time. if others do not then that is their problem, but i can answer for myself. i said at the beginning of question time that we would finish at 19.00. (interjection from the floor by gay mitchell)we try and maintain some order here, and i appreciate your concern. (interjection from the floor by gay mitchell)i note your comments but i do not think i am to blame for that.
that concludes question time.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh na moltaí sa bheart comhréitigh a chomhaontaigh ionadaithe na parlaiminte, na comhairle agus an choimisiúin faoi fheithiclí glana iompar bóthair. is ceart dúshlán a thabhairt d’údaráis áitiúla agus do chomhlachtaí poiblí eile infheistíocht a dhéanamh in iompar glan inmharthanach. nuair a roghnaítear roghanna glasa éifeachtacha iompair, inár gcathracha, go háirithe, téann siad chun leasa shláinte na saoránach agus na timpeallachta. cuideoidh sin linn ár ngealltanais aeráide a chomhlíonadh agus, ar bhealach ríthábhachtach, is féidir leis sin a bheith ina chatalaíoch margaidh le haghaidh roghanna iompair ghlain. ba chóir dóibh siúd atá i mbun soláthair phoiblí na sochair fhadtéarmacha a chur sa mheá. ba chóir go gcuirfidís na costais ar fad a bhaineann leis na roghanna bearta san áireamh sna ríomhaireachtaí. is é an t-iompar an réimse ina mbíonn an deacracht is mó ag an eoraip. is é mo ghuí go nglacfar leis an treoir seo, agus a luaithe agus is féidir, le gur féidir leis a bheith curtha i bhfeidhm faoi 2010 mar thacaíocht d’údaráis áitiúla agus do chomhlachtaí poiblí ar mór acu cúrsaí timpeallachta.
mr president, this directive is very welcome because it puts legal flesh on previous proposals in the 2006 directive and in the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency. public procurement has a vital role to play, not only through leading by example, but also because big contracts stimulate mass production and therefore bring down the cost of energy-efficient vehicles. technically, too, the time is ripe for this directive. the range and speed of electric vehicles has been transformed by innovation in battery technology. many vehicles procured by contracting authorities are fleet vehicles – which return at night to a base where they can easily be plugged in and recharged – so they are not dependent on the prior development of recharging facilities at service stations. to conclude, i hope that this directive will serve as a stepping stone towards a comprehensive proposal on limiting co2 emissions from commercial vehicles.
author. − mr president, i would like to focus the house’s attention on the recent announcement by the commission to apply whole-body imaging technology to europe’s airports by 2010. here i would like the commission to clarify and justify many points which have been raised in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the most important is why this step is seen merely as a technical change to the existing aviation security regulation and, thus, why parliamentary scrutiny of fundamental issues of personal privacy and dignity are being bypassed. this technology has the potential – and, i stress, the potential – to force air passengers to undergo what could be seen as undignifying treatment, and this is certainly not a small technical step. if we are to justify this to our citizens, we first need to know why it is needed at all. are we heading down the route of using more technology just for the sake that that technology is available, and also, what extent will the technology be used for? i can understand that, in some cases, this should be a secondary measure, where an individual chooses not to be, as we say, frisked by a security official. but as a primary screening measure it is a very serious breach of our basic rights to privacy and is intrusive. we have already seen, with the liquids rules, that the precedent is being set for extra security measures to become the norm in airports. however inconvenient these liquids rules are to passengers, it is certainly not an invasion of privacy. other major concerns i have are with the storage of data. as i understand, storing of images is not the initial intention, but this is not to say that it is not possible to do so. therefore, could the commission outline what events could lead to the storing of this data, how it would be protected, and whether (and how) it could be ruled today that this possibility would not be used, so that it could be ruled out completely, thereby greatly alleviating many of the concerns of law-abiding passengers? i would also like to see that proper consultation is carried out with user groups. tests have, indeed, been carried out on these machines at some airports – including in my own country at london heathrow – but as yet, i understand, the results of this process have not been scrutinised by experts or the relevant parliamentary committees. finally, i would urge the commission not to head down the route of forcing individuals to submit to a potentially degrading process without first understanding the rightful concerns of innocent travellers. of course we should be serious about security, but this form of blanket approach to technology has the potential to turn a legitimate security concern into an unacceptable peepshow for security industries.
au nom du groupe ppe-de.– mr president, it gives me great pleasure to be able to welcome, on behalf of the group and as,indeed, the second shadow rapporteur for my group that has worked on it, the agreement we have reached with council today. i also want to thank council for their cooperation. i want to place on record the indebtedness that we pay to mrs luisa rudi ubeda, who was elected to the spanish parliament in the summer but who had actually done the bulk of the shadow work on this directive. in particular, in relation to the point to the rapporteur from the committee on legal affairs, i just want to emphasise that the special section on holiday clubs, which i think is probably the biggest single advance we have in this directive in dealing with that particular type of product, was very much due to the tenacity of mrs rudi ubeda in ensuring that we kept it on the table. council and commission in particular were rather reluctant, but i am delighted that we have reached agreement on that because i think it is crucially important. my rapporteur, toine manders, who has also done an excellent job on this and to whom i pay tribute as well asthe rest of the team that worked with him, and mrs kuneva, have covered a number of the other issues, but i just want to highlight what i think are two other very important issues where we have sought significant improvement. the first one is on the question of advertising. if you look at the advertising clause it is now clearly spelt out that any promotional activity in relation to a timeshare or holiday club has to be clearly shown and designated in advertising as such. also, the standardised information that we have asked to be available has to be available at all times at any sort of promotional event, so there can be no question of people being misled by some attractive trip, visit or offer. it has to be absolutely clear what it is they are talking about, and that it should not be sold as an investment. secondly – and here i address the council, though,unfortunately, the minister is not here – the member states’ encouragement of codes of conduct and out-of-court dispute resolution is absolutely crucial. overall, this is a major advance in consumer protection. i fully commend it and i am sure that it will get the overwhelming support of the house today.
madam president, this timeshare law is long overdue. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection first held a hearing on this in 2001, exposing all the problems in the market. we are, of course, very pleased that we have come to the point today where we are now delivering for consumers. we are extending the law to cover all timeshare-like products, especially the problematic discount holiday clubs. we are covering resale and exchange and giving consumers better protection and better rights. critically, i believe consumers will have the same rights whether they are buying in varna on the black sea or valencia on the costa blanca. with this law, consumers must be given the key information on the standard information sheet – including all fees and charges – and, if the company fails to provide it,the law extends the right of withdrawal to three months. failure to inform the consumer of the right of withdrawal extends the right of withdrawal to one year. these really are good rights for consumers. they will turn our traders into responsible traders and we will have informed and protected consumers, which means we can drive out of the market the dodgy dealers and the scam merchants. today we have demonstrated that, when consumers complain,parliament’s committee on internal market and consumer protection not only answers, but we act and we deliver. commissioner, i would ask you to follow up, as you always do, on enforcement issues. we must now use the new cross-border enforcement network to tackle the continuing problems that consumers have and to make sure we reduce the number of complaints that turn up on timeshare in european consumer centres right across the 27 member states.
madam president, for a number of years i have been concerned that current legislation on timeshares did not take into account the range of new products in this area coming on to the market. therefore, i welcome the revisions being made in this proposal. extending the scope to cover holiday clubs and other similar products is a great step forward in protecting the consumer from what had previously been an easy target for the unscrupulous tout. this directive certainly shows that the eu is taking steps to stay ahead of the game. i have to admit, however, that i am disappointed that parliament had to give way on a provision calling for cooling-off periods of 21 days in order to reach agreement with the council. however, this is not to say that the improvements made have had no effect on the current directive, and, in fact, it is to be welcomed that no upfront payments have to be made until the end of the cooling-off period. a great deal of effort has gone into reaching this compromise with the council, and i hope to see the report adopted today with a large majority.
mr president, it may be true that the council is not here, but i would like to ask the house to welcome our new commissioner who, immediately after her endorsement, has taken the trouble to be present for the vote. i welcome baroness ashton to the chamber. (loud applause)
mr president, i voted against the joint motion on the european council summit because of its duplicity over the irish referendum and its foolish clinging to economically damaging climate-change targets. the communiqué makes a hypocritical affirmation of respect for the irish rejection of lisbon, and then immediately sets about insisting, through the coded language of these documents, that the irish fall into line. the so-called respect for the democratic decision of the voters is patently false. now here we all are facing a deep economic crisis, the worst most of us can remember, and the eu is worried about keeping the deck-chairs of climate targets in place. industry and our economies cannot now afford this ever-higher green taxation burden. all we will succeed in doing is expelling more and more of our manufacturing industry to the far east.
mr president, the most dangerous phrase in contemporary politics is ‘something must be done’. politicians have an unreasonable and disproportionate fear of appearing inactive and what that ‘something’ is, is secondary, as we have seen during the financial crisis. it does not matter what the ‘something’ is –gbp500billion in britain, eur500billion in europe, usd850 billion in the us – alright, that is ‘something’, let us do it. never mind what its practical consequences are. the truth is that you cannot legislate against recessions, anymore than you can legislate to order the course of the sun or the moon. what we are seeing now is an inexorable correction to the years of easy credit created by these same governments which kept interest rates too low for too long. that was a political decision and not a market one, and the air that was puffed into the balloon is now rushing out. the only practical change being made by the nationalisation of our banks and by these huge bail-outs is that, instead of cutting taxes to help people through the tough times, we are loading an enormous new additional burden on them. our taxpayers will pay a heavy price for our conceit.
mr president, the eplp welcomes the content of this joint resolution and motion regarding the financial climate and the broader economy. as to what we mightdo next, it is true that parliament has set out a series of demands – which have been a kind of a wish list, to some degree – and also concrete proposals about what needs to be done. at times we have gone further than the commission. indeed, at times – maybe for national reasons or for political interests – we have seen parliament both water down text and propose good text. but those calls are quite relevant today and are germane to the condition that we are in. supervisory structures need, more than ever, to be strengthened – but at the global level, not just at a european level. we have to look outside the european union. for that, we also need to consider what is happening in terms of development aid around the world. we need to deepen our reserves in terms of dealing with development issues,not walk away from them – and it is hoped that, by doing this, we will reach the kinds of economic equilibrium that is needed around the world. it is our role to draw attention to these issues. it is also our role to do something more about this, and i will submit more on this issue in writing.
mr president, i voted for this report because the safety of children who are online is a real concern for me. it is also an issue that is raised by many of my west midlands constituents. i know that many parents and teachers are increasingly anxious about children accessing material which is inappropriate and potentially dangerous. the growth of the internet into a powerful worldwide medium has increased the dangers to youngsters throughout the world. recent research in the uk has revealed that as many as 1 in 10 children who use computer chatrooms have been approached over the internet by paedophiles. in acknowledging that the internet offers a world of entertainment, opportunity and knowledge to children, we must, however, also put in place measures to keep them safe on the internet. i believe it is our responsibility to protect children from harmful material and some of those who conduct online lines. the europeanparliamenthas a vital role to play in reducing the availability of inappropriate and illegal materials and increasing public awareness of online dangers. i therefore welcome this report and eu efforts to safeguard our children. children should be able to benefit from all the opportunities this technology offers without fear of those who would cause them harm.
mr president, i am really pleased that the gaps in the 1994 timeshare directive are finally being addressed by this parliament so that consumers can look forward to better protection for their investments. it will also, in the long run, protect up to 40000 european jobs. i have taken a particular interest in this report as it covers an issue that directly affects many of my constituents. we have more timeshare owners in the uk than any other european country. therefore, this will reassure many of them that europe is acting to protect them from scam traders. the uk timeshare industry is worth approximately eur 157million per year, and this directive constitutes an important move forward in eliminating unscrupulous agents who cause problems for consumers and bring legitimate operators into disrepute. these new simplified rules will ensure that consumers are equally well protected across the eu, while creating a level playing field in the market for timeshare and other popular holiday-related products.
mr president, i share in the delight of my friend and colleague, ms gill, that we are closing loopholes in this directive. timeshare is a big industry but it also can be a big scam. for example, i have been dealing with a company called the european timeshare owners organisation, which operates in spain – but conveniently from an address in gibraltar – and constituents have told me that they were approached by this company which offered to resell their timeshare. when they went to spain at great expense, they found there was nobody to buy their timeshare, but this company wanting to sell them other timeshares. i have been trying to get in touch with this company for several weeks and only finally this week managed to do so, because, miraculously, the phone numbers they give do not have people at the other end to answer – and they do not seem to respond to letters either. i hope that we will start now to crack down on organisations like the european timeshare owners organisation, because they give timeshare a bad name and, frankly, they damage the image of the spanish holiday industry, which i know you care so much about.
in writing. −i support catherine ashton as the new trade commissioner. i am very pleased that we have finally got a female trade commissioner and the first female british commissioner. i believe that she will be a very receptive and open commissioner who will work closely with parliament.
in writing. −i and my british conservative colleagues support the elements of this resolution dealing with co-operation between countries on the current financial crisis, and the expression of support for smes in this context. we also support the eu maintaining its commitments regarding climate change. we welcome the strong support for georgia in this resolution, following the recent russian intervention in that country. however, as we oppose the treaty of lisbon strongly, we cannot support the text on this matter. also, we oppose an eu common immigration policy. for these reasons, we have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − the rejection of amendment 4 is a disappointment. the financial crisis should not mean that we abandon our international obligations to tackle climate change and fight poverty.
in writing. −i welcome the adoption of the temporary agency workers directive that will, finally, give equal treatment at work to some of our most vulnerable workers. this directive has been a long time coming. it has been six years since the commission first brought forward proposals for a temporary agency workers directive, during which time the number of temporary agency workers in the public and private sectors of the labour market has greatly increased. temporary agency work contributes to a dynamic and flexible modern economy and can often be a bridge for the long-term unemployed to get back in the labour market. but agency workers should not be treated as second-class workers, and agencies should not be able to distort the labour market by undercutting the wages and conditions of other workers. i am therefore delighted that parliament, in accepting the compromise deal reached among european employment ministers in the council of ministers in june, has now ensured that this directive will enter into law. this is great news for the estimated 1.3 million british workers who will be protected by this legislation and serves as an excellent demonstration that our european common market is a social market that combines protection of workers’ rights with flexible labour markets.
in writing. −i support the directive on temporary agency work. britain’s 1.3million agency workers will now have rights on a par with those of their permanent colleagues. i am fully supportive of agency staff having the same rights in these areas such as sick leave, pension contribution, equal pay and access to vocational training.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report at second reading. the member states must now act to put in place the improved protection which will be provided for those in temporary work.
in writing. −the eu’s temporary agency work directive adds to the mass of eu and british government legislation making the life of employers and businessmen more complex, expensive, restrictive, less flexible and generally more problematic. in an age of global competition, it is even more important that the uk and other european countries should retain whatever competitive advantages they may have in their economies. employment regulation should therefore be a matter for national authorities, not the eu. the directive aims to establish a common legal framework across europe to regulate the pay and working conditions of temporary workers supplied by agencies. this would have a significant negative impact on the uk labour market, with its estimated 1.4 million temporary workers. it will also encourage migrant workers who may benefit from the directive. as we enter a period of recession, it is even more important that flexible employment opportunities are increased for our own citizens and that small businesses, in particular, are helped and not burdened.
in writing. −we agree that children should be protected from sex predators, cyber bullying and other dangers on the internet. however, we have two objections to this legislation – firstly, the fact that it allows the eu to gain more control over the internet, and we feel the eu already has a near monopoly on media channels. secondly, we do not feel that the shadowy europol agency should be involved in any kind of law enforcement. we feel that the appropriate vehicles for child protection are national parliaments and national law enforcement agencies, who can devise appropriate internet child protection. this will have the democratic legitimacy only national level assemblies can confer and the operational effectiveness only national law enforcement can deliver.
in writing. −abuse and exploitation of children, via the internet, mobile phones and other technologies, is abhorrent and unacceptable, but measures to protect them – and to punish those who harm or seek to harm them – need to be taken at national level and between national governments on a co-operative basis. as always, i believe that action at eu level is not the answer.
in writing. −i fully support the need for the eur 55 million budget to ensure that children, many of whom spend at least three hours a day on the internet, are better protected from unsafe user content. i support the need to better inform parents and carers through information packs about the dangers of the internet.
in writing. −i fully support the report on increasing consumer protection in this area. as british consumers make up one third of the total european timeshare owners, this is a law which has responded to the concerns of uk consumers. i fully approve of the need for timeshare retailers to increase the cooling-off period for buyers, as well as the obligation to provide full details of the purchase before the contract is signed.
in writing. −british conservatives support the right of workers to strike, but also the right of workers not to strike should they so choose. we are supportive of the ecj judgments and do not believe that the rights of workers have been put into question by them. a revision of the posting of workers directive is unnecessary, as is the widening of its legal base, because of problems that certain member states have experienced due to the organisation of their individual labour markets. 1 million workers are posted successfully each year.
in writing. − i supported the andersson report on the challenges posed to collective agreements in the union by the series of recent decisions of the european court of justice. i do not dispute the legal validity of the decisions made, but i do dispute that they reflect the intention of parliament, commission and council when the posted workers directive was approved. the conclusion is clear: that the directive must be reviewed to amend its provisions to restore our original intention. it must be a priority for the european commission. it needs to be urgently addressed. if this commission does not rectify the situation, the next commission after the 2009 european elections must. i for one will not vote to ratify any new commission that fails to have the issue within its work programme for its first 12 months.
in writing. − i thank our rapporteur jan andersson for his report on this very important subject. recent cases before the ecj, and indeed that court’s judgments, mean that workers’ rights and workers’ solidarity through collective agreements are being threatened by companies whose only priority is profit, and if that means undermining workers’ rights, then so be it: they are prepared to do just that. the european social model that we are rightly proud of is under attack and seriously under threat from profiteers. the threat of imported cheap labour is a reality, brought in through the back door by unscrupulous employers under the guise of free movement. the free movement principle was never intended to be a tool for cheap labour or as a principle by which workers’ social conditions can be diluted. what jacques delors would have made of this would be of great interest. the viking and laval judgments are an attack on trade unions and workers’ rights. that is why mr andersson’s report is badly needed and why i will support it. it restores the balance so clearly abandoned by the ecj in its recent judgments.
mr president, i see that millions of euros of public money are still being allocated to social engineering and to buy popular support for the eu itself in candidate countries, member states and elsewhere. we still have roads and bridges that lead nowhere, we are replacing the pavements in karíniaoutside the turkish casinos no less, and eur400million provide electricity in kosovo, where the subsequent receipts simply disappear. these are highly questionable political uses of public money. no wonder the taxpayers in net-contributor countries like mine are increasingly objecting to eu funds being given to countries whose tax burden is lower – sometimes much lower – and which effectively replace the lack of local tax revenues. given the nature of these irregularities, i wrote to the court of auditors recently to clarify the legality of payments from public funds which are being qualified under international financial accounting standards.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 october 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is question time (b6-0475/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, it is clear that nobody can be complacent about the issue of drugs. the commission adopted on 18 september 2008 a proposal for a european union drugs action plan 2009-2012, and a report on the final evaluation of the eu drugs action plan 2005-2008 was annexed. this is the impact assessment which was mentioned in the question. both documents were made available to parliament on that date. the evaluation was conducted by the european commission in the first half of 2008 in line with action 45.3 of the subsequent action plan. the evaluation provided important input for the new action plan. findings include the following. regarding the implementation of the new eu drugs action plan, the conclusion can be drawn that progress has been made on nearly all specific objectives and actions with varying degrees of success. the eu drugs action plan is adequately reflected in the national policies of the member states and has been translated into national policy and/or these objectives were already reflected in existing documents. member states report that the action plan reflects the main policy fields at national level. the evaluation shows that the action plan supports a process of convergence between member states’ drug policies, which the commission considers quite important. regarding the drug situation, there has not been a significant reduction in the prevalence of drug use but the use of some of the most prevalent drugs seems to have stabilisedand/or fallen slightly. the use of cocaine is showing an upward trend in some member states. the long-term eu trend in the prevalence of drug-related infectious diseases, especially hiv and aids infections, is that these have been reduced in recent years, as have drug-related deaths. new trends in drug use, especially poly-drug use, have emerged in recent years. the numbers and size of cocaine seizures are rising while for herbal cannabis, heroin, ecstasy and amphetamines, seizures appear to be stabilising. prices for illicit substances in general have fallen, while purity levels seem to be fairly stable. regarding the impact of the action plan on the drug situation, the impact assessment to which the honourable member refers is, i presume, the evaluation report regarding implementation. the ongoing reduction in drug-related infectious diseases and drug-related deaths on the one hand, and the eu-wide implementation of harm-reduction measures on the other, suggest a clear correlation with the action plans, even though such a link is notoriously hard to prove beyond any reasonable doubt. some member states have achieved dramatic reductions in drug-related health harm after the introduction of harm-reduction measures. similar conclusions can be drawn in the fields of supply reduction and european coordination and cooperation in anti-drugs law enforcement.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, of course cooperation between member states in fighting drugs, drug cartels and drug crime is extremely vital and also extremely difficult because of the huge amount of money in circulation. our first priority, as you have seen in the action plan, is really to fight the cocaine supply chain. we have several initiatives which foresee and arrange cooperation between producer countries in latin america and in western africa in order to stop cocaine trafficking. there are special centressuch asthe maritime analysis and operations centre – narcotics, and thecentre d’enquête et de coordination de la lutte anti-drogue enméditerranée. both initiatives target cocaine trafficking. so there is cooperation and there are initiatives, but the field is difficult and the fight is hard. i must stress that there cannot be any complacency. this is more or less an endless fight. however, i am happy to report some positive consequences. diseases have decreased, as has drug-related death.
question no 41 by péter olajos (h-0755/08) subject: import of poultry meat products from chinacommission decision 2008/638/ec of 30 july 2008 oj l 207, 5.8.2008, p. 24. amended decision 2007/777/ec oj l 312, 30.11.2007, p. 49. on the import of meat products from third countries. under the earlier decision, china was permitted to export only heat-treated poultry meat products to the community which had been treated in a hermetically sealed container to a fo value of three or more. at the same time, at the request of the competent chinese authorities, the commission approved the import of poultry meat products from china’s shandong province which had been treated at a lower temperature (minimum 70°c). in the light of the above, does the commission not consider that relaxing the rules will lead to a slackening of the european union’s rigorous animal health, food hygiene and animal welfare regulations? does it not think that taking such a decision, which applies to just one province of a country, is cause for concern, and does it think that the poultry meat products in question can be completely verified as coming only from shandong province? does it not consider that granting the authorisation to one province will lead to a torrent of requests for the rules to be relaxed in other provinces (of which there are already indications)? do the measures introduced not pose a risk to the situation of eu poultry farmers?
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, animal- and public-health rules applying to the export of poultry meat from china ensure an equivalent level of protection to those of the eu. these import rules guarantee that all imported products fulfil the same high standards as products from the eu member states, not only with respect to hygiene and all aspects of consumer safety but also regarding animal health status. the principle according to which food must be safe, irrespective of its origin, is at the core of the eu approach. the official control system in china was verified on the spot by three commission inspections. the outcome was published on the website of dg sanco. the inspections have shown that the competent authorities, in particular in shandong province, are sufficiently well structured to guarantee compliance with community legislation as regards heat-treated poultry meat products. furthermore, these inspection missions have also verified that the competent authorities are capable of enforcing the community’s import requirements. as a result of this exercise, the chinese authorities have demonstrated to the commission services that they can certify that consignments of heat-treated poultry meat products being exported to the european union were produced in accordance with community requirements and come only from shandong province. all approved plants in the community list of establishments from which imports of heat-treated poultry meat is authorised are located in shandong province. this was verified by the three fact-finding missions on the spot: one in 2004;two in 2006. according to the wto agreement on sanitary and phytosanitary measures, any third country may request authorisation for export for the totality or part of its territory to the commission, which is considered and evaluated according to the relevant community requirements. if the guarantees given by a third country are deemed satisfactory and are effectively verified, such requests from third countries are accepted and authorisation for export granted. any risk of distortion of competition towards eu poultry producers is prevented by the fact that the measures in place provide for sufficient guarantees that the heat-treated poultry meat products from certain regions are compliant with the level of protection that the eu deems necessary. informed choice by consumers would be the answer to competitive pressure. the chinese authorities expressed interest in the approval by the commission of the imports of heat-treated poultry meat from jilin province. to get this approval, the chinese authorities will have to guarantee that the sanitary conditions applied to the production of heat-treated poultry meat in jilin provincemeets ec requirements, and the commission will verify these guarantees by on-the-spot inspections.
vice-president of the commission. − first of all i want to say that china is willing to cooperate, and we have no indications that china is not willing to cooperate. secondly,as regards the inspections and missions, these missions havebeen considered satisfactory so far. whenever there are doubts or questions,we willhave new missions. the time between the last missions and this year was due to administrative activities in china between two ministries. however – at least on the commission side – we cannot say that there is any reluctance to cooperate with us concerning standards and the quality of the products. if there are indications, the commission is ready to organise new missions. so far these have not been considered necessary.
commissioner, i hear what you say but it does have echoes of the brazilian beef controversy, when for months the commission stood where you stand today and assured us that all was well, and then was finally driven to the position of having to impose a ban. you have said that this meat will be subjected to similar tests. can you say, without reservation, that every piece of meat imported will be equally subjected to the same rigorous veterinary tests as are required of our own producers? will the same ratio of production be tested, and how will you know if the product is truly from shandong province? is it enough if it is merely processed there? those are the issues that give rise to resentment by our producers, that they are subjected to all sorts of requirements,including the phasing-out of cages. will that happen in china at the same rate? they believe themselves undercut by cheap imports.
question no 42 by ona jukneviciene (h-0786/08) subject: implementation of the european social fund in the member states the european social fund (esf) as one of the eu's structural funds was set up to reduce differences in prosperity and living standards across eu member states and regions, with the aim of promoting employment as well as economic and social cohesion. over the period 2007-2013 some €75 billion will be distributed to the eu member states and regions to achieve its goals. member states finance a number of different programmes, and in this regard it is important to know how the member states, especially the new ones, are using the available funding and what results have been achieved in raising living standards and promoting employment. is the commission planning to publish a communication on the implementation of the esf in the member states and if so, when can we expect such a communication? if the commission plans to release such a communication, can we expect to see both qualitative and quantitative analyses of the use of the esf funds? it is of crucial importance to know not only how much money was spent on implementing various programmes but to ensure that the eu citizens enjoy tangible and sustainable benefits as well. if the commission is not planning such a communication, why is this, and how can the commission then guarantee transparent and efficient use of the esf?
question no 43 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0746/08) subject: community co-financed projects and siemens' slush funds the greek and german judicial authorities are continuing to investigate the case of the siemens' slush funds, which were used by the firm to bribe political parties and persons in authority in order to obtain major public sector works and supply contracts. the german courts have already convicted a former senior executive of the company, who has admitted that slush funds also existed in greece. given that these bribes may well relate to community co-funded projects, will the commission say whether olaf or any other of its services is investigating the legality of the award procedures and implementation of such projects?
as the author of question 44, mr heaton-harris, is not present, that question falls.
can i thank the commissioner for his very clear answer and congratulate him on implementing an open and efficient way of running the commission, in spite of the fact that the lisbon treaty will never see the light of day? but, having said that, does the commission have any plans to introduce any of those reforms which may not need the lisbon treaty to be enforced –for example, on improving the capacity to implement eu law on the staff regulations?
question no 46 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0789/08) subject: abuses and corruption by eu officials every so often, european public opinion is rocked by reports of abuses and corruption by eu officials. can the commission provide details of the scale of this problem over recent months, over this year as a whole and over last year, and in comparison with previous years?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question no 47 by eoin ryan (h-0712/08) subject: ccctb impact assessment in his address to the econ committee in june of this year, commissioner kovacs referred to a ccctb impact assessment, which he described as 'crucial' for his proposed legislative proposal. can the commission give us more details about this impact assessment and confirm that if it proves unfavourable to the ccctb proposal the commission will shelve the plans for such a legislative proposal? question no 48 by marian harkin (h-0724/08) subject: ccctb what is the current situation with regard to the deliberations on the introduction of a common consolidated tax base and, in light of the concerns expressed by the irish electorate in the lisbon vote on this matter, has the commission modified its approach in any way?
i am sorry, mr ryan. the rules allow you a supplementary question. i will not give you the floor.
question no 49 by georgios papastamkos (h-0716/08) subject: eu-china customs cooperation what is the commission’s assessment of the level of organisation and effectiveness of customs cooperation between the eu and china?
question no 50 by sean ó neachtain (h-0708/08) subject: financing security measures at european regional airports by the end of 2008, the commission is expected to publish a report on financing security measures at european airports, which may lead to a new legislative proposal on this issue. given that security expenditure constitutes a heavy burden for european regional airports, can the commission say what kind of solutions it considers necessary to help regional airports manage the increasing costs of security? in addition, does the commission plan to introduce new measures that will oblige all member states to finance in part security at europe’s regional airports?
commissioner... (interjection from the floor by jim higgins) i am very sorry, mr higgins, i have taken two supplementary questions, which is all i can take, and we have dealt with it as appropriately as we can. (interjection from the floor by jim higgins) the rules provide for two supplementary questions. i am sorry but i cannot get into a discussion with you. it is unfair to those who have questions waiting to be heard.
question no 51 by stavros arnaoutakis (h-0713/08) subject: high quality transport and small island regions of the european union what steps will the commission take to ensure that the european union has sustainable and high quality transport systems and to protect the rights of its citizens and their safety? how will it contribute towards establishing a reliable system of transportation (boat-aeroplane-helicopter) which covers the small island regions of the european union?
question no 52 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0715/08) subject: european legislative measures on shipping safety has the commission assessed the implications for european shipping in the event of the entry into force of european legislative measures on shipping safety which will overlap with hitherto uniform international rules? why does the commission not consider it sufficient for the member states to ratify the imo's international conventions so that matters over which they have sole competence and matters over which they have joint competence with the european community are regulated only by international legislation, which the member states establish by sole competence on the basis of their sovereign rights? in seeking to establish sole community competence and acquire new powers at a time when european citizens are particularly sensitive about the sovereign rights of their own country, especially in a sector under great economic strain, such as shipping, is the commission not at risk of doing more harm than good overall?
question no 53 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0717/08) subject: improvement of urban transport it is a fact that urban transport is not currently the best it might be for european citizens. the stress caused by intense congestion, the high level of pollution and journeys within towns, which are responsible for 40% and more of total co2 emissions from road transport, together with the lack of safety for drivers and vulnerable groups, such as pedestrians and cyclists, are just some of the problems encountered every day by european citizens in major towns and cities. what are the commission's objectives and plan of action in response to this situation so that more sustainable forms of urban transport may be established and what timetable has it set for measures to achieve its objectives?
that concludes question time.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– madam president, the european union is founded on reconciliation: the belief that we can create a better future by acknowledging our past in all its brutality. germany has rightly confronted and sought to atone for the unspeakable horrors of the nazi era and the holocaust. the newer member states of our union are finding their own ways to seek truth and reconciliation through a frank and uncompromising analysis of their communist totalitarian past. but some countries still seek to hide from their history. turkey, for example, in my view still denies the genocide perpetrated on the armenians and the assyrians under cover of world war i. russia has also struggled to come to terms with the brutality of stalin’s communist dictatorship. the purpose of this resolution tonight is to express our horror at the holodomor, the period of deliberately engineered famine in 1932-1933. the resolution reflects our determination to remember its millions of victims, some of whom are still alive today to tell their gruesome tale. their evidence is vitally important, because soon they will all have gone. only by reminding ourselves of such heinous crimes against humanity can we try to ensure they never happen again. this resolution does not contain the word ‘genocide’, because other political groups in this house do not think the strict definition of that term should be applied to the holodomor. after all, it was only after the second world war that the genocide convention was actually established. but also, perhaps – and perhaps more regrettably, in my view – because of a fear of offending modern-day russia. but none of us wish to belittle the unimaginable suffering inflicted upon ukraine. no word or words can properly describe the atrocity of the holodomor. what is important is not so much the text that we use but the sentiment that we are trying to express in our resolution – solidarity with ukraine on the 75th anniversary of the massacres perpetrated on its long-suffering people. one lesson that history teaches us is the importance of robust international law and judicial structures, which are now extant, if the authors of such misery are ever to be punished. nuremberg was the start of that long, drawn-out process. the war crimes court for the former yugoslavia, which is soon to try radovan karadzić, shows that these principles are as important today as ever. yesterday this house voiced its strong support for bringing the leader of the lord’s resistance army in uganda, joseph kony, before the international criminal court. tyrants, wherever they are – in this case it is joseph stalin we are debating tonight – bent on mass murder and destruction, should have no sanctuary anywhere. ukraine has borne much grief throughout its history, and i do hope now that the next stage in that glorious history involves ukraine rightly taking its place, in the not-too-distant future, as a full member of the european union. after the crisis in georgia there can be no doubt that many russian nationalists are not happy about, for instance, ukrainian sovereignty over crimea. but i am sure that, if we all stand together in solidarity with the ukrainian people, one day it will take its place in the european family of nations.
on behalf of the pse group.– madam president, i welcome the report of my colleague, ulrich stockmann, and i thank him for his hard work on this difficult dossier. all through the process of this report the concern of my group has been to ensure that the system of airport charges throughout the eu is both fair and transparent, and that a detailed appeals procedure was in place in case of dispute. often people think of aviation as a single industry but, when one examines issues like airport charging, it soon becomes apparent that the airport and airline sectors have different views and aspirations. the report before us offers a balanced solution, favouring neither the airlines nor the airports. whilst, personally, i would have preferred the scope to be based on a percentage of national passengers rather than an arbitrary figure, the rapporteur in his report has ensured that the figure is at a reasonable level of five million passengers – not the commission’s ridiculously low figure of one million – and the major airport of a member state has to be included. a key element in the whole of our discussions has been whether certain airports enjoy a dominant trade position. my group believes that, where this is the case, airport charges need to be regulated. however, many airports are in a competitive situation and airlines are free to choose where they fly into. in my region, manchester airport has 22million passengers a year but faces competition from eight airports all within a 150-kmradius. clearly, in these circumstances, the market itself is a good regulator. i therefore welcome that the uk will be allowed to maintain its present system of monitoring airport charges, because it has in place a regulatory framework that encourages competition and regulates charges through its own supervisory body only at those airports that have a dominant position. it may be that other countries could follow this regulatory framework as a way of delivering a fair and transparent airport charges system. i hope now that we can agree this directive at its second-reading stage. this should help us deliver a directive that will put an end to secret meetings setting charges for airports in a monopolistic or dominant trading position. i seriously hope that airlines also recognise that we will now have a transparent system with a detailed appeals procedure, with full consultation, end the constant complaining about airport charges and work with the airports to deliver a cost-effective, value-for-money service for users and passengers alike.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– madam president, this report is supposed to prevent individual airports from abusing their dominant position in the market, and to create a level playing field for operators and safeguard consumer interests. how many times have we heard those kind of arguments before? if implemented, this harmonisation of airport charges is likely to be as successful as the harmonisation that brought us the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the ever-increasing burden of eu regulation on businesses,which costs the uk at least gbp 26billion per annum. what it will do is require a completely unnecessary change in british law relating to airport charges and transport-related matters. it will require the setting-up of a supposedly independent supervisory authority that will add yet another layer of bureaucracy, and the inevitably increased costs that will follow. there is, of course, existing price-cap regulation in the uk, designed to incentivise airport operators to achieve cost efficiencies. the objective of this continual torrent of legislation is to harmonise every aspect of life in the european union and bring it under the ultimate authority of the european union. any other consideration is secondary or unimportant. what we can be absolutely sure of is that these measures will mean increased cost to the air traveller.
madam president, i welcome the increased transparency introduced by these new rules on airport charges. too often, airports are secretive about the deals they strike, even when they are owned or part-owned by public authorities. the public has a right to know how such airports are raising and spending their money. but i am disappointed that the threshold for greater reporting has been set at five million, with no reference to percentage national market share. this threshold will hit particularly hard regional airports such as newcastle. with six million passengers a year, newcastle comes above the threshold, yet it is a minnow compared to the giants of heathrow and gatwick. since regional airports compete mainly with their nearest neighbours, it would have been fairer to have had a system which treated all small and medium-sized airports in the same way. i therefore regret that the council did not pursue the option of confining the scope of the directive to airports with over five million passenger movements per annum and over 15% of national passenger movements. such a threshold would still have ensured that europe’s big airports could not dictate airline charges behind closed doors. i hope that, when the commission reviews the directive, it will look carefully at whether regional airports like newcastle are suffering from market distortion.
madam president, i echo the thanks of my colleagues to mr stockman for what i think he described as a workable compromise in the interests of 69 european airports. i also share the words of mr becsey, and indeed of my colleague brian simpson, about fair and transparent competition. i am happy that this report, as it is presented now, is a good deal, not just for london’s three airports of heathrow, stansted and gatwick, but for the airports of the rest of europe, whether it is mr zīle’s latvia, mrs ţicău’s romania, or portugal, and indeed for the commissioners – italian airports, and i believe there are airports in germany as well, although not many people go to them. but i think, also, it is a good deal for europe’s passengers and, of course, airports are nothing without the citizens, the passengers. they are our priority, as – equally – is the environment, which i think is addressed by this report. mr batten, my london colleague, in what could best be described as his hit-and-run contribution (because he has gone away), suggested that there were going to be new bodies set up and all sorts of other scaremongering. but those bodies – the civil aviation authority – exist already. so i think that is a misunderstanding on his part –to be polite to him. and, to fiona hall, i am not sure that newcastle is in direct competition with london. there is a good distance between the two of them, and anybody who chooses to go into london rather than newcastle has still got a tremendous distance to go. so i think you are not comparing like with like there. i think that this is a good, workable compromise. i think all the original concerns that we wanted to address have been covered, and, as a package, it does provide the balance – in the interests of airlines and in the interests of passengers – that we were looking for, whilst allowing the airports sufficient freedom to operate in a competitive environment. i live in hope that, as a result of this, we might one day – you never know, colleagues, you never know – we might just get a decent service into strasbourg. it is along shot, but you never know –and it is worth working for.
mr president, i should like to say to the ombudsman that it has been a really interesting debate: sniped at by hans-peter martin, lauded as a god by another. i think it shows that he has probably – just about – got it right. ombudsman, parliament does not always place you in a very comfortable position when you are called upon especially to rule on decisions that we take and the actions of this house. i see that i have excited hans-peter martin – how wonderful! but let me just tell you, ombudsman, that you always carry out your work in a constructive way and absolutely within your competences. probably the reason why we have seen an increase in your workload is because you have been so effective in promoting your work and your office, and i congratulate you on that. it leaves me nothing more than to say that it is an excellent report. i look forward to contributions from other colleagues, but also i enjoy working with you, not the least in relation to access to documents, but also as vice-chair of the committee on petitions. (applause)
madam president, accounting standards are the key element of the language of financial services. for investors, the moves to converge the national standards of accounting to the international financial reporting standards(ifrs) are a great step forward. it means that companies will be able to publish accounts in one basic form, which should be accepted in the major economies around the world. canada, china, japan, the usa – and now, it seems, india as well – are in agreement in the wish to converge their standards towards ifrs. although i welcome this, as the rapporteur for the transparency directive, i recognise that work to achieve actual convergence still has to be done. this is why i and my fellow rapporteur, margarita starkevičiūtė, have approved the amendments to monitor the progress of this convergence process. i trust that the commission, in their discussions with various national authorities, can keep the momentum moving. with regard to the usa, i am keen that a new administration can be trusted and relied upon to make the substantial progress that it is needed. the commission should keep pressure on this. on accounting standards themselves, it is vitally important to keep the underlying approach, as agreed within the international accounting standards board (iasb). the integrity of these rules will be tested by attempts to dilute them for national reasons. this should be resisted strongly, and fair value accounting must be supported in the face of such pressure.
in writing. − amendment 602 was supported by parliament. again this is disappointing, as it continues subsidising tobacco producers in the eu. tobacco is the cause of death of half a million eu citizens each year. it is a disgrace that there is still a subsidy available to grow a product which kills so many.
in writing.−british labour meps have long supported the reform of the cap, especially reforms which save money, and thus do not support measures which increase costs unnecessarily. in particular, the eplp does not support subsidising the production of tobacco; bullfighting; new funds for dairy, sheep and goats and funds for publicising the cap. british labour meps welcome any opportunity to help small and medium enterprises, as they are the backbone of our economy, providing the majority of jobs in the eu. consolidating funding under one budget heading will help draw attention to the needs of smes.
in writing. − british labour meps support the principle that the european parliament should be knowledge based, but decided to abstain on the decision to increase the number of group staff due to the current financial conditions and the need to save money as a result.
in writing. −whilst british conservatives recognise that the charges airports levy on their users should be subject to scrutiny on occasion, conservatives abstained in the vote on the amendments at second reading on the draft airport charges directive. this was because they still have concerns that the regulation of some regional airports is unnecessary and may affect their ability to operate competitively. conservatives were keen for the eu to adopt a percentage threshold at first reading. the current threshold is arbitrary and does not take into account the competitive growth of the sector.
in writing. −i fully support the resolution on sea piracy. currently two attacks a day are taking place around the horn of africa and pirates are disrupting trade flows and preventing international aid reaching somalia. this resolution calls for coordinated action between the eu, the un and the african union to isolate pirates in the region and ensure aid reaches this troubled region. i support these recommendations.
in writing. −i shall be voting for this resolution and i congratulate my colleagues on the transport committee for taking this initiative at this time. sea piracy is a criminal act that not only threatens seafarers’ lives but also disrupts legitimate trade and even humanitarian aid. modern day pirateshave no romance; they are not johnny depp type characters swinging through the rigging. they are desperate, dangerous criminals who need to be brought to book. piracy is a problem all over the world and especially off the coast of somalia, where it has risen to epidemic proportions. now it is time for concerted international action to bring this type of activity to a standstill. this resolution is timely, and i hope it will help our governments to work together as a part of that international effort.
in writing. −the british conservative delegation supports strong international naval action against piracy, but we do not believe this is an area where the eu can, or indeed should, be involved. we therefore abstained on the resolution. a nato naval maritime group is already being deployed against piracy in the seas off the horn of africa. the eu member states that would have to contribute warships to the ‘eu naval force’ are already contributing to the nato response. the eu has no additional assets. it brings no added value, only complexity, confusion and duplication, when the situation demands coherence, an unambiguous chain of command and political control, and robust rules of engagement. this is a job for nato. we also object to references to ‘eu fishing vessels’, ‘eu fishermen’‘community fishing, merchant and passenger vessels’. the eu possesses no ships and none are flagged eu.
in writing. − labour euro mps wish to state our strong support for the belief that the famine of 1932-33 was an appalling, man-made human tragedy, and we believe it is important to promote remembrance and public awareness of the artificial famine, together with its importance in ukraine’s history. britain’s prime minister gordon brown made a joint statement with the president of the ukraine on 15 may 2008 in which britain pledged cooperation in international institutions to promote remembrance of the holodomor. although we do not officially recognise the events of 1932-33 as falling within the definition of the 1948 un convention on genocide, we recognise that some academic opinion supports this view and are committed to following the debate and studying any emerging evidence closely.
in writing. −i and my british conservative colleagues support the work of the european ombudsman and believe that many of the proposals for improving the operation of the role in this report are worthy of support. with regard to recital b, i wish to make clear that the british conservative mep delegation opposes the treaty of lisbon and the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into that treaty. we believe that the ratification procedure on this treaty should end following the decisive ‘no’ vote in ireland.
mr president, president chávez has been something of a darling of the left in europe. most notably, in my constituency, he was championed by the former mayor of london, ken livingstone. this allowed his unsavoury image to be somewhat airbrushed with a veneer of spurious respectability. president chávez has, of course, presided over a diminution of the rights and freedoms of the venezuelan people. he has undermined political freedom, the rule of law, the independence of the courts, and the freedom of the media and organised labour. politicians like mrlivingstone who endorse leaders like president chávez undermine genuine democracy and reveal a great deal about themselves.
mr president, the atrocities endured in the congo are unimaginable to those of us who live in peaceful civilised societies. how can we offer practical help to people such as the congolese? direct military intervention and humanitarian aid must only come from international effort under the auspices of the united nations, but time and time again we see the leaders of these types of failed states being allowed to plunder their countries and enjoy their wealth in the western world. the stable and peaceful countries of the world should unite to ensure that vast amounts of wealth cannot be stolen and then deposited in western banks with impunity. international agreements should be reached to ensure that leaders of such states cannot live off their ill-gotten gains. this would be at least one small element of an overall solution to help develop stability in countries such as the congo.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissionerfor listening to us. along with colleagues such as glenys kinnock, i have long looked forward to the day when resolutions on human rights in burma and elsewhere do not have to be considered in this parliament, but we continually have to return to this. i can only agree with colleagues around the house that, when we look at the attempts, time and again, to make changes in burma, we see nothing but failure instead. we need to expose those countries that aid and bail out this corrupt regime with trade. we have announced the names of some of those countries and should do more at european level to make sure their exposure leads to real change. we need to see changes in burma leading to freedom of assembly and association, the release of prisoners of conscience and a full transition to a multi-party democracy. we have seen off juntas in europe. we need the world to see off the junta in burma.
mr president, earlier this year we saw the failure of the burmese government to deal with the consequences of a natural disaster in that country. considering the amount of money spent by the military on its own upkeep and the tight hold it has on national life, onemight at least have expected it to be able to respond to the needs of its own people in a humanitarian crisis. it did not, because it has no real function, except to perpetuate its own existence and stranglehold on power. referring back to what i said in my previous remarks on the congo, i wonder how many of the military junta have bank accounts in western banks and enjoy shopping trips to london, paris and rome. a direct way of showing support for the burmese people would be for democratic countries to stop them coming until human rights and democracy are practised in burma.
mr president, let me congratulate mr lundgren on his remarks and also challenge mr ryan of the uen group, who tells us that the stability provided by the euro has been an enormous boon to ireland. if he had been following recent irish economic history, he would know that the inflexibility of the euro monetary policy has contributed to serious inflationary problems, especially in the housing market, and that the irish housing bubble has been much more severe than it need have been if ireland had been able to control its own monetary policy. we were offered great benefits with the euro; we were offered ease of travel, growth and efficiency, and transfers of money between member states would suddenly become easier. but this has not happened. yes, we have got the ease of travel, but we have not seen the growth and efficiency, and i believe that it is nearly as difficult and expensive to transfer money between euro-zone states as it ever was. those of us who had doubts about the euro project have been vindicated. what we have is the wrong interest rate for most countries most of the time. italy has had the most fearful crisis of competitiveness, with its unit labour costs increasing by 40% compared to germany. we are told that the euro is a great success because of its strength as a currency. well, we should go and ask some euro-zone exporters what they think of the strength of the euro. it is doing huge damage to them. the real test of a currency’s success is the degree of confidence in the market, and that is measured in this case by the bond spreads between euro-zone states. the last time i looked, the bond spread between greece and germany was over 150 basis points. this is not sustainable. it shows a total lack of confidence in the euro from the markets. the question for us is not how long can the euro last, but which member state will leave first.
mr president, it has always been economic nonsense for a number of differently performing economies to share the same interest and exchange rates. in addition, the primary function and legal obligation of the european central bank is to control inflation, which in the developing economic crisis is the least of our problems. these are the fault lines that will eventually tear the european single currency apart. but europhiles in the uk are now using the argument that the falling rate of the pound is an opportunity for us to join the euro. a knowledge of basic economics would tell them that this is precisely the reason why britain should not join. the ability of the pound to find its own value against other countries will be an essential factor in helping britain to weather the coming economic storm. the united kingdom needs the european single currency like a drowning man needs a strait jacket.
mr president, on the question of britain’s membership of the euro zone, i think it has always been the case that britain has been reluctant to join european agreements at the outset. it has learnt very quickly to regret that decision. we then apply to join at the worst possible moment. had we been founder members of the euro zone – which we should have been – we would have been in a much stronger position today. i look forward to the next conservative government applying to join the euro zone really quite shortly. (applause)
mr president, there is sadly a fundamental misunderstanding by most politicians as to the reasons why there are differentials between the genders in pay. the basic premise, erroneous though it is, perpetuates the myth that employment is a demand-led, employer-governed phenomenon. it is no such thing. those who argue that all women should be paid the same as men for perceived similarities in the job description miss the point entirely that no individual is an economic unit. in spite of already overburdening employment legislation, usually drafted by people with little or no business experience, pay differentials continue for one simple reason: employment is about demand and supply; it is about lifestyle choices; it is often based on priorities, early retirement goals, a desire to live in certain parts of a country or town, pressure of hobbies or sport, or one of those offspring. employer and employee strike a mutual bargain in the same way as the buyer and seller of any commodity. the uk equality and human rights commission employs substantially more women than men, and the average pay for their men is higher than for their women. i agree that past legislation has had a limited impact on these dynamics. yes, you might as well legislate against a ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, parliament defends individuals and small organisations, small businesses, as opposed to governments who want to sweep away inconvenient things and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection feels very strongly that the external land-border shops should be allowed to remain. they should be better policed, as should all the policing against crime across borders in europe be much better, but it is not a reason to sweep them away. secondly, on sea and air travel, the internal market committee believes strongly that travellers – based on their final destination, as opposed to a transit destination – should be allowed to buy duty-free because that would help small regional airports generate revenue. it may be inconvenient to the governments, but we defend it very strongly. the third and final point that i want to make – which it is very regrettable that the commission did not include in its 2006 consultation on this legislation – is the removal of these exemptions which it is now proposing. why did it not include it? why did it not carry out an impact assessment on what it would mean before it proposed it?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the commission proposal relating to procedure 2008/0051(cns) states in article 10 that ‘member states may […] make excise goods which have been released for consumption eligible for reimbursement [...] of excise duty’. on this basis, ms lulling tells us that, as regards the conditions for reimbursement of excise duty, the proposal lays down, as a general principle, that it is for member states to determine these conditions. however, article 10 goes on to say: ‘provided that such reimbursement [...] does not give rise to exemptions other than those referred to in article 11’. article 11 refers to exemptions for diplomatic purposes, for subsidising international organisations, for assisting the armed forces of nato and under special arrangements with non-eu countries, all of which – i think you will agree – are rather specialised exemptions which, contrary to ms lulling’s assertion, do not uphold the general principle that it is for member states to determine the conditions for reimbursement. there is no exemption for member states in this proposal, and on these grounds i commend to members amendment 54, which seeks to repair a glaring flaw in this proposal.
mr president, perhaps if i were mrs lulling living in luxembourg i might feel as strongly about not having indicative limits. unfortunately, i live on an island where there is a lot of smuggling and much of the alcohol and tobacco which people think that they can use for their own particular purposes is in fact later sold on to other people through commercial resale. i am afraid that anything we do to end the indicative limits would send a signal and a message to those smugglers who look for the resale of alcohol and cigarettes. indicative limits may not seem like a safe guide for consumers but they are a safe guide for children, children who often end up taking the alcohol and cigarettes sold by bootleggers and smugglers who bring them into my region in the south-east and sell them in the streets, on the back streets and on the estates, for small change, one or two cigarettes at a time perhaps, but enough to get kids started. it is this trade which needs to be controlled and can only be controlled by setting indicative limits so that we can get to the source of the people who are trying to do this and trying to smuggle it past our police and customs officers. that is why i believe that indicative limits should stay. it is not, as i say, an end to the integration of the single markets, but it certainly does bring about a better idea of social cohesion and social behaviour and, in the united kingdom, the customs and excise officers and the police officers asked for this. they asked for it because it gives good guidance as to what people would be expected to bring back for their own personal use. tobacco has a life of only six months, so when you stop vans packed to the ceiling with cigarettes, you have to ask the question: is that really for personal use or is it going elsewhere for resale, and often to children?
mr president, we are all aware that the background and the origins of the european solidarity fund lie in the devastating floods in central eastern europe in 2002; its necessity was further cemented by other natural disasters such as the forest fires in greece. and recently the flooding in my own constituency in northern ireland brought it home to me how important this is. despite widespread support and enthusiasm for the fund expressed by parliament and the commission and among eu citizens, the council’s reluctance to cooperate is hindering its full implementation. surely the european union wishes to grant assistance to member states which have experienced natural disaster. this aid must be administered in a swift and responsive manner in order to have any chance of being effective. however, the council is currently placing obstacles in the way which are preventing the smooth operation of the fund. i am glad therefore that the tabling of this oral question and its urgency is a matter which is highlighted by the committee. furthermore i would like to stress the part of the question posed by the committee, which asked which member states are opposed to the fund, and please tell us why. the solidarity fund is an extremely important mechanism for the european union to have at its disposal. however, problems of its implementation have dragged on for far too long and in my opinion this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. it matters nothing whether it is floods or forest fires, when people are in trouble they need help and assistance and above all they require financial support, upfront and speedily; not like the present system that has taken months and years and has been stifled totally by bureaucracy. if you really want to do something positive, this is it and will bring you more credit to europe than any of your other proposals or all of them put together. i want to make it very clear to the council. the council disagreed because, in my opinion – and it is only my opinion – they do not want parliament, and more importantly, they do not want the members of this parliament in the local region, where we are more important than you, the commission or they, the council. because when something happens the people look to the members. they do not look to the commission and they do not look to the council and they do not know who you are. you are an untouchable, faceless, bureaucratic body in brussels. so it is the members – so do not run away from it – we, the parliament, are the people who are out there with the people all the time and we need that support. i have never heard such feeble excuses in all my life; it is time to get this done.
madam president, let me begin by offering my thanks to commissioner mariann fischer boel; mr barnier, president-in-office of the council; mr capoulas santos, rapporteur; and also lutz goepel, for the cooperation we have had, as well as all members of the committee for their hard work, because we are 27 member states and, whilst we do not quite have 27 positions on this report, we do still have quite a number, and we came together in committee to reach what i consider is a sensible compromise. let me also thank the commissioner for her cooperation and help and in particular michel barnier, because we have had enhanced cooperation, if not codecision. we have to move forward now and adopt a report and reach a compromise and a position in order that farmers in europe know exactly where they are going. there is a need for the production of food – we saw that clearly last year – and we need to free up farmers from bureaucracy; we need simplification. we also need farmers to make business decisions for themselves. so we have to move forward. yes, we need some crisis management, but we must not return to the days of having intervention – the balance must be right. many of us fly around europe and when we land we like a soft landing, and milk quotas also need a soft landing. we do need to free up the market. the commissioner said that last year there was a demand for dairy products, this year not so much – but next year there could be a greater demand again and we need the flexibility to meet it. agriculture and the rural environment are one and the same and we have to move to make sure that we deal with climate change and the management of water, that we look at biofuels and biogas and that we really put europe in a good position. we must not go backwards, because we are in a good position when it comes to the wto. let us go forward and actually reform the agricultural policy.
madam president, i would first of all like to add my thanks to our rapporteur for all his hard work on this delicate subject. however, despite his great efforts, i am afraid that i and my national delegation cannot support this report. i believe that the cap is in need of radical reform. it needs to move away from the old direct subsidy route to a system that is market orientated and that values rural sustainability and the environment, and recognises efficient farming instead of propping up inefficient farming. whilst this report in itself is not a major reform document, it does set the tone for future reforms beyond 2013. that is why i am disappointed in the outcome of the vote in the agriculture committee, which yet again – it appears to me – has resulted in that committee turning its back on a fundamental reform of this discredited system. in particular, i highlight compulsory modulation. i cannot support a position that will see less money going to rural development and furthermore removes the need for member states to cofinance new modulation money. i also cannot support the committee view that we should also step back from full decoupling, but i reserve my biggest fear for the commission. your position, commissioner, on compulsory modulation is right. your position on decoupling is right. for once, we have a commission that seriously wants to reform the cap, but faces a parliament that always fails to deliver on this issue and believes that the challenges we face could be solved by sticking to the old discredited system. hang tough, commissioner, you are right and, sadly, i suspect this chamber will be wrong.
madam president, i congratulate and thank all colleagues in bringing us to a successful conclusion today. but i would echo colleagues’ disappointment that we could have gone a bit further and been a bit more ambitious, but let us remember that the health check was only ever about a health check: the fundamental reform will come later and that is what we need to focus on today. as we look towards 2013 there is certainly a lot to do, because we have a common agricultural policy that, like any good compromise, leaves nobody particularly happy. so i pick up on neil parish’s comments, and mr pieper’s also, that we need to look towards the future about what the common agricultural policy is designed to achieve. we need to bring the reform of the structural funds particularly into this discussion, because the cap as it stands is overcomplicated, convoluted and difficult to get public support for, whereas the structural funds would be a much cheaper, more effective way to deliver public environmental goods. we need to remember that the cap is about the provision of direct support to producers of quality local food. if we remember that, we will not go far wrong. that is the big prize and today is a step on the road towards that.
madam president, in the time available i will focus on the milk sector because – as the commissioner knows from our meeting last week – it is in trouble in my constituency in light of the plunge in the price. that fall in price strengthens me in my view that abolishing milk quotas is premature and imprudent and will do nothing to stabilise the market. likewise, reducing the range of available market-management measures seems to me unnecessary and foolish in light of the instability now affecting the market. we need meaningful market-management opportunities if a bottom is to be put, and to be kept, in this market. without this, we are headed for anything but a soft landing for milk. i regret, therefore, that at a time when some member states are showing flexibility – with france diverting underspend to the sheep sector and germany talking about a milk fund – the commission wishes to bind itself by reducing its scope for action by needlessly abrogating market-management measures.
mr president, i would firstly like to refer to milk. i am not in favour of a 2% increase. i would support a 1% increase because, although a lot has been said about soft landings, i do not believe it. i think the world is changing as we sit here. over recent months the milk industry, which 12 months ago was certainly a successful part of our produce, is longer so because of changing world markets. i would like to say to the commissioner that i am a little concerned about articles 68 and 69. i believe that you can take the word ‘common’ and remove it forever from the common agricultural policy. i would be very careful about this to ensure that we do not give too much responsibility, and that money can simply go back and member states can create an uneven playing field. on modulation, i believe we should stick to single figures, but let whatever we have on modulation be mandatory. let everybody throughout europe pay the same level of modulation from the second pillar.
in writing. – the common agricultural policy forces british consumers to buy food at inflated prices from continental farmers rather than at lower prices available on the world market. it is estimated that the cap causes prices to be at least 23% higher than those prevailing on the world market. it is also estimated by economists that the cost of the cap to uk consumers equates to at least 1.2% of gdp - which is currently an astonishing £16.8 billion per annum. i represent many people in london who struggle to pay their bills. they face ever-rising taxes and ever-rising prices. they do not owe continental farmers a living. if countries want to subsidise their agricultural industries that is their own business, but it should be paid for by their own tax-payers. the common agricultural policy is paid for by those least able to afford it: pensioners and those on low incomes, those who pay a higher proportion of their disposable income on food. the cap is just one of the many reasons why britain should leave the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there is nothing to dislike in this proposal and i commend our rapporteur for coming up with it, especially with an election in the offing. i think any politician in this room looking to june next year will be in favour of seeing europe’s children eating better and eating european local fruit. it is good news for europe’s farmers as well because this is creating a local market. it is good news for the health budget of the future and more importantly it is good news for the children themselves. if we start children eating healthy at a young age, they will keep up the habit. finland has demonstrated and proven that aggressive intervention at an early age does make a difference, and that is very much to be welcomed. if we speculate a little on the agriculture budget now, we will accumulate on the health budget of the future. coming from scotland i am ashamed to say that we have a particular interest in this, in that 21% – one in five – of our primary school children are overweight. that is utterly unsustainable. we cannot look towards a future of increasing obesity, so this is part of the solution to that and i am delighted to commend it to the house. it is good news all round.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, comhlíonfaidh an togra seo cuspóirí an aontais maidir le cct agus soláthróidh sé creatlach chistithe le haghaidh tionscnamh a bhfuil sé mar aidhm acu an méid torthaí agus glasraí a itheann leanaí a mhéadú. is féidir leis sin dul i ngleic le murtall leanaí agus is é leas fadtéarmach ár bhfeirmeoirí torthaí agus glasraí é freisin. forbraítear nósanna agus patrúin itheacháin sna chéad chúpla bliain den saol. mar sin de, tá sé tábhachtach gur féidir linn nósanna itheacháin níos folláine a spreagadh i measc páistí. ba chóir do na ballstáit a bheith ábalta an bealach is fearr a roghnú. tugann taighde le fios go bhfuil an claonadh ann gur míshláintiúla iad na patrúin itheacháin i dteaghlaigh íos-ioncaim. thiocfadh le dáileadh saor torthaí agus glasraí i scoileanna difríocht mhór a dhéanamh, mar sin de, do nósanna ite na n-óg. fáiltím roimh thuarascáil an uasail niels busk agus gabhaim buíochas leis agus leis an choimisinéir as a gcuid oibre.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this project is being dressed up as all about concern for the welfare of children. however, the real agenda is a disturbing mixture of nanny brussels, control-freakism, sheer naked propaganda and market fixing. nanny brussels likes to be in control of everything, including what we eat. putting itself in charge of what children eat at school is the first major step in that process. the propaganda angle is that each piece of fruit will have an eu label on it and the whole project will be supported by a massive publicity campaign. in regard to the fruit market, i understand it will create a great many opportunities for mischief such as mandatory rules that all fruit must come from inside the eu. in the case of bananas, this could at a stroke rule out british suppliers who obtain their bananas from british commonwealth caribbean countries, and thus it will provide a lucrative new opportunity for the french islands of guadeloupe and martinique.
mr president, i am eating an apple courtesy of mr busk. he is giving away apples outside so if any members want to go and get one i am sure mr busk will be happy to give them an apple! i think this is an excellent report. as ms harkin said, we often come to this chamber and cannot be as glowing and look forward to such a good initiative. we must, however, provide more funds to ensure that our young people are able to access, partake of and utilise this opportunity to the full, because this is one of those rare occasions when we can offer something. we complain about the situation and read in the press and the media about how bad the problems of obesity and suchlike are among schoolchildren. our young people today are nonetheless excellent people but have lots of pressures on them that maybe we in the past did not have. i think this is one opportunity where we can give them the possibility of good healthy eating. i welcome this, support this and offer my congratulations.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner’s proposal on school fruit. it is very important that we get this scheme going. i also agree with her that it needs subsidiarity, because what we want is a system that is not too bureaucratic so that we can actually get it into our schools. i also think we need flexibility on the type of fruit that we can provide, because some times of year it will be very difficult to get fresh fruit and we may occasionally need processed fruit. let us not have too many prescriptive amendments but, rather, get this scheme accepted. i also think that one or two of parliament’s proposals on the amount of funding needed are too much. because, if we had codecision powers in this parliament, we would have to sign up to the budget as well as the process. if we are to be credible in this parliament, let us put forward a scheme that is fundable, gives school fruit to the children who most need it and then they will progress to eating fruit in the future. this is a scheme. let me say to mr titford that i am not worried whether europe provides it, whether britain provides it, france provides it or whatever, but what we have to be sure of is that school fruit goes into our schools.
mr president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to offer my explanation of vote. i think there is probably a consensus in this room that the credit crunch and the liquidity crisis that we faced were caused by poor lending decisions taken, not only by banks – and those decisions were forced on them by the clinton administration and successive regimes which suggested that banks should lend to communities that were deemed uncreditworthy – but also by consumers making poor decisions. having been encouraged to take out loans which they perhaps could not afford to repay, they then found themselves bearing the brunt of being unable to pay those loans. this highlights the importance of consumer financial education. however, we seem to be falling into the trap of thinking that, whatever the problem, the eu has a solution. if you look at the solutions listed here on the commission website, in the europe diary, they actually do very little to address the issue of consumer education. we should be looking at community organisations – like the croydon caribbean credit union in my constituency – that help solve these problems at the community level and not the european level.
mr president, it is my privilege to represent the handsome villages, the rolling downs and the bluebell groves of the english home counties. like every other mep for south-east england, i have received dozens of heartbreaking complaints from constituents who have suffered from the arbitrary confiscation of legally purchased alcohol and tobacco at the channel ports. labour’s repeated hikes in the excise duty have served to drive income that ought to be coming to retailers in my constituency across the channel. in time, jobs have also been pushed from the english home counties across the water. revenue that ought to be coming to the british exchequer is instead going to continental treasuries. the government’s response has then been to spend this dwindling income stream on hiring more and more excise officers in a futile attempt to police a system wherein most of our alcohol and tobacco had now become smuggled. that is the system which, to their shame, labour meps have just voted to go back to. i think it is a disgrace.
mr president, i would just like to echo the sentiments expressed by the previous speakers, ms lulling, the rapporteur, and my colleague, dan hannan, from the south-east of england. i, too, as a member of the european parliament for london – the greatest city in the world and capital of the greatest country in the world – have received a number of letters from constituents complaining about the heavy-handed approach of customs and excise as they have sought to go about their life and purchase alcohol and cigarettes from the continent and bring them back for their own enjoyment or the enjoyment of their family and friends. what do the customs and excise duty officers do in the united kingdom? they pick on them, they ask intrusive questions, they haul them outside their vehicles, including pensioners, and they question them intrusively trying to find out exactly how much alcohol they drink and how many cigarettes they smoke in some sort of gestapo-type inquisition. this is not the sort of behaviour we expect from law enforcement officers or excise officers in the united kingdom or across europe. voting on the report today in the way we did, we have gone backwards – not only backwards before 1992 but to a period previously where there was no free movement, or very limited free movement, of goods.
in writing. − i voted for mr saryusz-wolski’s report on a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and kazakhstan. i did this despite my continued reservations regarding the human rights record of the government in kazakhstan. it is important that parliament and the commission continue to monitor the situation in kazakhstan and if it worsens or even fails to improve over the following twelve months we should take action to suspend this agreement.
in writing. − this proposal will have a substantial positive financial impact on the european air traffic control infrastructure modernisation programme. i support the proposal, the funds which are saved as a result of which will be invested in research, development and validation activities for the benefit of the entire community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the iotova report on consumer education on credit and finance. the world is heading into a period of huge financial uncertainty and many of europe’s citizens are fearful for their jobs, their savings, their pensions and their future. in such a period of uncertainty, consumer awareness of credit, debt and finance in general is surely more important than ever. this report calls for financial education to be tailored for specific groups and initiatives of this kind at an eu level are to be welcomed.
in writing. − i support this directive, which will limit fraud and contraband cases that reduce state revenue. this modernised and simplified directive will reduce the obligations on operators while enabling them to combat excise fraud more effectively.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the report on the school fresh fruit scheme. this proposal will produce real health benefits for millions of children across europe. the funding of free fruit for schoolchildren through the common agricultural policy budget will show tangible benefits of the cap to ordinary european citizens. the co-financing of the scheme by the eu and member states will allow the extension of the existing free school fruit scheme in england and the creation of similar schemes in scotland, wales, and northern ireland. although a larger budget than the €90m envisioned by the commission would be welcome - as the parliament has pointed out in its report through its request for an increase in the budget to €500m - the creation of this scheme will give children regular access to free fruit and its attendant health benefits, such as a lower chance of developing obesity, diabetes, and other serious diseases in later life. as well as providing immediate benefits for child health, the scheme will help to shape young people's views on nutrition, creating a healthier europe and reducing the costs to state healthcare systems.
in writing. − i support the committee on agriculture’s proposal for a school fruit scheme but along with my british labour colleagues i want to retain an element of national co-financing to ensure an increased coverage. equally i support the reference to organic, local and regional products, but this cannot entirely replace the necessity of best value for money or variety. in the south west of england i would welcome the exchange of our splendid local varieties of apples and pears for the bananas of cyprus and the canaries.
in writing. − i am very pleased that the health of our children is being tackled at european level. obesity amongst children is a growing concern in europe, and even more so in the uk where almost 25% of the population is obese and 10% of children are overweight. this issue is a serious concern to many of my constituents and i welcome an initiative to tackle it. addressing eating habits in childhood is key to preventing obesity later on in life, and the consumption of fruit and vegetables is proven to reduce the rate of obesity and cardio-vascular diseases. in the uk, the appeal of convenience food is leading to the development of bad eating habits, which in turn cost our health service an annual gbp 6 billion. it is clear, then, that supporting this initiative also makes good economic sense. this is why i voted in favour of this report and i hope that member states will make effective use of the funds to fight what is becoming a real problem for our children.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the busk report and wholeheartedly support this initiative to provide fruit to europe's schoolchildren. my own country, scotland, has one of the poorest health records in europe and the government there is actively pursuing a number of policies targeted at improving the health of children in the hope that this will improve their wellbeing in later life. this eu initiative will complement the scottish government's work and is therefore welcome.
in writing. − i support this scheme which provides funding for free fruit and vegetables for schoolchildren. this can only produce positive results, helping to reduce obesity among children by moving closer to the ‘five a day’ recommendation, which is why i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. − conservative meps abstained on the busk report on the commission's proposal to introduce an eu-wide school fruit scheme. while very keen to see healthy eating habits promoted among youngsters in the uk and the eu, we have reservations about the budgetary allocations proposed in this report, which are considerably greater than the eur 90 million proposed by the commission. depending on the result of the votes, the parliament will call for budgetary allocations of at least eur 360 million and even as much as eur 500 million. we believe that it makes more sense to start the scheme with a lower level of financing and review subsequently the budgetary needs in the light of experience gained – as argued for in the commission's impact assessment.
in writing. − i fully support the commission’s proposals on distributing free fruit and vegetables in schools, as part of the strategy on tackling obesity among children. not only do i fully support the use of eu money to tackle a priority public health concern faced by all member states, but i also support the strong social element attached to the proposals, in that they will allow member states to support children from more deprived backgrounds who tend to eat less fruit and vegetables and who tend to be more at risk from obesity. furthermore, this is the first time that cap money will be used to tackle a public health concern, a sign of a change in thinking on the aims of the cap. i am happy that parliament has sent a strong message to the commission and to the council, in supporting an increased budget enabling more children to benefit from the scheme. however, i do not agree with parliament’s position stipulating that fruit and vegetables should only come from the community. we should not lose sight of the fact that this scheme is about promoting a wide variety of fruit and vegetables to school children and tackling obesity. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1)).
in writing. − i support the principle of trying to make fruit more accessible to young people in schools. the successful scottish project of trying to get more fruit and vegetables available through schools has seen record numbers of children eating more healthily. the programmes have been targeted at those most in need and i would hope that this scheme would target the poorest and most vulnerable children first.
in writing. − i support this report, which calls for improved economic coordination in order to try to prevent a prolonged, deep recession. this roadmap should improve the monitoring of the financial crisis, and should provide valuable support to the economy.
in writing. − the conservative party has recently published "fair play on women's pay: a six-point plan to overcome the gender pay gap". the conservative party wants to help to stamp out the pay gap once and for all. this includes compulsory pay audits for employers who are found to discriminate, new measures to help women into work and up the careers ladder, and extending the right to request flexible working to all parents of children aged eighteen or younger. equal pay is crucial for a fair and equal society, but national governments and parliaments are generally best placed to act in ways that are most effective for their own societies and economies. this recommendation by the european parliament is over-prescriptive at the eu level. the bauer report is not one we can support, however, as the request for a new legislative proposal on equal pay is based on article 141(3) of the ec treaty which is covered by the conservative party's pledge to opt out of the social chapter.
in writing. − i am speaking on this today as the gender pay gap is a concern to many of my west midlands constituents, as well as to most of us here. the gender pay gap in the uk is wider than the european average and women have recently received the dire news that this gap is now increasing. equality between men and women is a fundamental right and a democratic necessity. only with the equal participation of all our citizens will we achieve the eu objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. economic arguments to change are compelling: unlocking women's potential could contribute up to 2% of gdp. in times of financial instability, it is crucial to ensure that our economy uses all the resources it has. it is also crucial to make sure that women do not suffer even more. although legislation has been passed and initiatives have been proposed, it is not enough. many of my constituents are in favour of stronger action to fight the gap. this is why i welcome this report and proposals to introduce pay audits and attribute more power to equality bodies.
in writing. − the principle of equal pay for men and women is explicitly stated in the treaty of rome and it is therefore a scandal that such huge disparities between the genders still exist across the eu. it is therefore essential that the european institutions take real action in this area and i accordingly voted in favour of the bauer report.
in writing. − the pay gap, which was one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs but which has not been adequately addressed by some member states, has a serious impact on the status of women in economic and social life. i support this report, which will address women earning 15-25% less than their male counterparts in europe.
in writing. − the creation of a european equal pay day is something i support. the fact that women are still discriminated against, being paid an average 15% less than their male counterparts for the same work, is totally unacceptable in 2008.
in writing. − this report makes recommendations to the european commission on applying the principle of equal pay for men and women, and that principle is the key to ensuring dignity, fairness and equality in pension entitlements. for years now i have strongly backed the plymouth senior citizens' petition calling for the just treatment of older women. i was proud to submit three amendments to the bauer report, reflecting the plymouth campaigners' demands, and i am delighted that all three have been accepted. the european parliament has recognised that many women lose out on earnings as a result of their work caring for children and older people. it has called on the commission to eliminate the risk of poverty among pensioners and secure for them a decent standard of living. and it has set as a goal the equality of male and female pensions, including the retirement age. now we need the european union and national governments to take heed of these words and turn fine sentiments into forward steps. pension equality for senior citizens is a worthy goal, and i am proud to support this report.
in writing. − this report recognises the need to reduce emissions from fossil fuels which will be used to bridge the gap until we can become reliant upon renewable energy sources, which is why i support it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to congratulate the president of the commission: this was the first time the commission has been represented at such a summit and it is, indeed, very welcome. i would also like to congratulate the president-in-office, not only on the excellent work that he has done for the french presidency, but also on his reward, at the presidency of the autorité des marchés financiers. if 1989 was a decisive victory for the free market economy, then 2008 must be the year in which we remind ourselves of adam smith’s warning that unbridled free markets have their limits. adam smith, in the wealth of nations, foresaw many things, and there are many lessons there for us in what he said. my group welcomes the success of the g20 meeting. we welcome its commitment to a shared belief that market principles, open trade and investment regimes and effectively regulated financial markets foster the dynamism, innovation and entrepreneurship that is essential for economic growth, employment and the fight against poverty. after 1929, countries made the mistake of seeking individual salvation. this time we have recognised that salvation must come collectively. many of the measures proposed in the commission’s work programme for 2009 will help us on that road. i congratulate the commission on that work programme, especially on the plan to ensure regulation and oversight and transparency of financial actors and significant capital market investors. free markets thrive on transparency and honesty. in the current difficulties, some are still seeking scapegoats. they are arguing that warning bells were not sounded. but they were! otto graf lambsdorff and jacques delors and others wrote a letter to the slovenian presidency very early this year warning of the dangers of the overheating of the world economy. jean-claude juncker reminded us last night, in his excellent speech in our debate on the 10th anniversary of the euro, that the eurogroup made a number of representations to the americans and others about the dangers that we were facing. liberal democrats are not going to waste time looking for the guy who failed to spot the iceberg: we will concentrate on getting people into lifeboats. we are concerned by one aspect, however, of the european union and the g20’s response. our heads of state and government appear to believe that we can go back to business as before, that all that is needed is economic growth. i fear they simply have not understood so many of the lessons of the last 30 years in politics. the recession should be a good time to take stock. even with the recession, world gdp is forecast to double in the next 20 years, and yet that growth is based on finite resources, on failing to factor in the cost of waste, and on another coal-fired power station in china every week. the presidency note of 28 october to inform the eu’s preparatory summit on 7 november had four innovation points. one of them was about sustainability. it said that internationally coordinated macroeconomic responses, based on promotion of environmental investments, including in developing countries, are important. well, clearly, some minister or official in the french presidency has been doing some joined-up thinking. but that did not get into the agreed language which passed for the conclusions of the preparatory summit, which talked only about climate change in one sentence in a list of other challenges. nor did it get into the g20 conclusions, other than as the penultimate point in the penultimate point, which talked about examples of other critical challenges, mentioning climate change as no 2. there is no contradiction between keynes and fighting climate change. a modern-day maynard keynes would put people back to work installing solar panels and wind generators on every house in europe, fostering innovation and providing jobs simultaneously. a modern-day roosevelt, seeing that we have a global economy of which the contours are drawn in the computer campuses of west coast america, the factories of china and the coal centres of india, would have us seek a global culture, global governance and a coherent vision of global concern. that is the way forward. it will never again be business as before.
madam president, as regards the world financial crisis and the commission legislative work programme, in a sense, the latter should be our response to the former. now, perhaps some would say that we have not one crisis, but several: financial, of course, but environmental facing up to climate change, confidence in europe after the irish vote, and security after the recent events in georgia. but perhaps without in any way belittling what confronts us, for ‘crisis’ we should probably read ‘challenges’ – challenges to europe to really step up to the mark and fulfil its role. europe is surely the best equipped region of the globe, with our institutions really able to get at these issues and challenges which go beyond national reach, beyond the control of any individual member state. we, above all, should be able to respond together through a strong and collective response to give confidence to those whom we represent: europe’s citizens. let me give you an example. in respect of the financial crisis i believe this parliament can rightly claim to have been at the front of the game. we had a strong foretaste in the work we did in our committee of inquiry into the collapse of equitable life. it was the first warning shot of the financial crisis to come. this parliament made a number of recommendations coming out of that inquiry in june last year, recommendations about financial regulation, about administrative cooperation between regulators, about access to redress and compensation – in short, on most of the topics in the financial sector where our citizens need most reassurance at the moment. those recommendations would repay attention from the commission but most particularly from the member states, particularly the british government, which has yet to respond to it fully, and more importantly yet to compensate equitable life victims, despite pushing its own way to the front of the queue against the icelandic banks. the financial and other challenges that face us need us to act together in solidarity, not just with an eye to national protectionism if we are to emerge unscathed as a continent. our group, the alde group, intends to respond to the work programme with a positive and progressive resolution. many of my colleagues will give details of some of the items, but we will emphasise above all an open europe, a green europe, an entrepreneurial europe and a safe europe.
madam president, things rarely happen at convenient times and any crisis, by definition, is going to be inconvenient. the financial and economic crises currently confronting us are unwelcome in themselves, but they also come in the closing months of the parliament and the final year of the commission, when all of us might normally be thinking of the next election and new appointments. this commission work programme almost has the feel of a ‘business as usual’ exercise, yet the situation demands fresh thought on how to head off what threatens to be a deep recession. it presents europe with a big challenge because most measures of fiscal policy need to be taken at national level, yet the eu has a crucial role of coordination. the magnitude of the challenges facing us makes that particularly important. in the field of energy, we have a pretty good idea of things that need to be done, but most of them are on a timescale well beyond the next year or two, so perhaps the only area where swift action – which could help – could be taken is in the field of energy efficiency measures. specifically, allowing lower vat for improvements in the energy efficiency of buildings and launching an information campaign to encourage a change in people’s behaviour are two specific ways to help the situation. beyond that, it seems to me that there will never be a better time to set up one of the eu’s famous groups of wise people – and in this case i suggest it should be wise men and women – to reflect on the challenge we face and come up with original solutions beyond the short-term remedy of throwing money at tax giveaways. i hope that council and commission will give this idea a fair wind.
madam president, the crisis is going to have a dramatic effect on the future of the euro. denmark and sweden should become members before they expected, and in britain, too, it is time for the debate to begin. in 1997 mr brown established five famous so-called tests before we could adjudge sterling’s accession to the single currency. suddenly, in this crisis, all these five are met. the pound has fallen to a competitive exchange-rate level, labour markets are flexible, the city, once so proud, now risks being pushed aside by stronger supervision and regulation inside the euro zone, and the economic cycles of britain and the euro zone are now completely in sync as we plunge into recession at the same time. mr brown’s cleverly disguised appearance at the paris eurogroup summit was a notable achievement of the french presidency. i appeal to mr brown to now change the terms of the debate inside the united kingdom. if he fails to achieve that, the pound will be like a permanent ping-pong ball, bouncing in an uncontrolled manner between the big footballs of the euro and the dollar.
madam president, i want to talk from the perspective of the committee on the internal market about what is going on in the real economy. i went to see some small businesses two weeks ago – successful companies supplying aerospace, automotive, energy industries. their problem is that they have taken on lots of skilled people but their order book has slowed down or, in some places, collapsed. they are the people that we need to be thinking about because if they are not there after this recession, if those skills are not there, then we are in serious difficulty. these are the companies that we want to invest in new products, in new services, to develop and train those staff that are there. so i say to the commission that small businesses are going to be the engines of job re-creation. we have a small business act going through here now. the implementation of it is probably in this rather long and tedious document somewhere, but surely you, the commission, should be looking at the real priorities for bringing in some of the things that we have worked on here that will actually help the real economy. that is where your priorities lie. i do not get any sense that this is a real response to the crisis at all. there are some nice words at the front here but i do not see the programme as changed. so my message to you, mrs wallström – and i hope you will take it back to president barroso – is that this is not good enough. and, we need real action on the things that are going to make real differences to jobs out there now and in the future. of course, the other people who can help us are those public investors, the people who are keeping and sustaining projects and construction, sustainable building, buying greener vehicles and particularly investing in the next generation of telecom networks. i will just conclude on this crucial point. next week the council (and i am sorry the minister is no longer here) will have the opportunity to sign off a common position on the telecoms package that will pave the way for that investment. we hear that some commissioners are not keen on that. well, i hope you will tell them that it is crucial for the future of the european economy that that package is approved by the council next friday.
madam president, at a time when the world is seeing the most important financial crisis that has ever hit us, we are looking at a failure so far on the doha round. it is of crucial importance. i have just spoken to baroness ashton – or commissioner ashton as she is now – and i do believe that she is taking us forward in a progressive and futuristic way. the financial crisis has to be underlined, as has the need to deepen europe’s relationships with its key partners, including the new us administration, but probably more importantly when the director-general, pascal lamy, is up for so-called re-election – we will see whether or not he gets the post, but there is a good chance that he will. we need more action and less rhetoric in this. brown has called for leaders to avoid putting up barriers to trade and investment during the times of economic crisis. this is crucial to the wto negotiations. the eu must not be dickensian in its approach to the way in which we approach trade. we must open our barriers. we must not put in place trade defence instruments. reform is only going to be successful on the grounds of a free market principle. that includes, as i say, open trade and investment. last week pascal lamy met with the g20 to work with a proposal that will see a possibility of a settlement coming up in the short term. we hope to see something even before christmas. that is the way the commission sees it at the moment. i congratulate the previous commissioner and the present commissioner on their approach. the eu has led for the first time in the trade negotiations and must be congratulated.
madam president, i would just like to make a small and medium-sized intervention on my favourite subject of smes. i was delighted that commission president barroso made many remarks about smes in his opening comments. but if i have a concern, it is a concern that he talks words – as one has to when one talks – but we have not yet seen enough action – a comment that malcolm harbour made earlier on today. i notice that in section 3 of your legislative and work programme for 2009, a very important section entitled ‘better regulation – delivery on promises and change of regulatory culture’, there is a comment that ‘a simpler and better regulatory environment without unnecessary administrative burdens will, therefore, remain a key component of the commission’s legislative work’. with due respect, commissioners – and i speak as a great fan and supporter of the commission in this regard – i have not yet seen evidence of this being in this legislative programme. there is a lot of talk of that: yes, we will do it, we will reduce by 25% – but where is the beef? where is the reduction? we have not yet seen it. so, going back to the heading ‘better regulation – delivery on promises’, if there is one word that you remember for this legislative programme, commissioners, that word must please be ‘delivery’. my final thought is that i do recognise that changing culture takes time and also, speaking as the coordinator for employment and social affairs for the ppe-de group, i do realise that the committee on which i have the great good fortune to sit is not always the greatest ally in the cause of better and simplified regulation. but i have to suffer in this committee, and my invitation is that one of you should come and suffer too – if only briefly – because we may be part of the problem. but if we could somehow create a new precedent that, ideally, the commission president would come and address our committee, maybe that would help make our committee help your work, and we could then become part of the solution.
madam president, there is a grave danger of rushing to excessive misguided regulation and to unintended consequences. an example in the new capital requirements directive is the proposed 5% retention of securitisation proceeds. this will only clog up credit creation. lack of securitisation possibilities is the principal reason that credit has dried up now. we need the banks to lend but no, this misguided principle, which lacks an impact assessment, will prevent a restart of securitisation and the credit which our business and industry so badly needs. ask the motor car industry how it will prosper if securitisation is snuffed out. that is only one example. if we suspend true and fair accounting, if we go out of our way to kill hedge funds and private equity and incentives to innovators, risk-takers and even bankers, as mr schulz and the socialists require, we will only delay and kill altogether that recovery.
the next item is question time (b6-0484/2008). the following questions are addressed to the council.
president of the council. - madam president, first of all i would like to apologise to mr posselt for the mistake i made, albeit unintentionally. don't let him think it was directed at him! but in reply to him, we are extremely attentive, as i said in the presentation, to the exercise of religious freedom and, in this country as elsewhere, to the guarantees given by the authorities, particularly in respect of minorities. it is true that, as elsewhere, these are christian minorities and, as mr posselt has pointed out, we pay particular attention to them. the case of the gabriel monastery is ongoing and we must await the judgment regarding this monastery. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. it is very clear that everything relating to freedom, freedom of religion, the need to take the necessary measures to establish a climate of tolerance to ensure full respect for freedom of religion, has been discussed and is at the centre of this dialogue with the turkish authorities. i would like to confirm that again, mr posselt.
i would like to direct the minister’s attention to the sustained campaign against the very tiny protestant community in turkey, epitomised at present by the farcical trial which has been going on for some months of two young men – turan topal and hakan taştan – who have been on trial charged with insulting turkishness. their crime, apparently, is the practising of their religion. with such a view of freedom of religion, is it not clear that turkey has a very long way to go indeed before it meets the basic standards of human rights and of freedom of religion?
question no 2 by manuel medina ortega (h-0796/08) subject: new migratory pressures on europe in recent weeks an increase has been felt in the migratory pressure on the mediterranean countries of the european union. is the council considering new diplomatic measures or other types of action to help those countries hold back the fresh wave of illegal immigration currently affecting that area?
question no 3 by luis yañez-barnuevo garcía (h-0798/08) subject: opening of dialogue in cuba the council conclusions on cuba of 23 june 2008 have been very well received in cuban democratic circles, which appreciate the fact that the unconditional release of all political prisoners is a key priority for the eu and that it supports respect for human rights and genuine progress towards a pluralist democracy. in line with the commitments the council made in its conclusions, can it indicate what effective measures it is taking to further develop dialogue with the representatives of civil society and the democratic opposition?
question no 4 by robert evans (h-0801/08) subject: lessons from the financial crisis what lessons has the council learnt from the current financial crisis? what short-term and long-term measures are presently under discussion? do these talks involve iceland and other european countries outside the eu whose economies are nevertheless closely interlinked? question no 5 by mairead mcguinness (h-0830/08) subject: member states' responses to international financial crisis does the council consider that the interventions of individual member states to protect their banks and economies against the worst impacts of the international financial crisis are a retrograde step? question no 6 by gay mitchell (h-0832/08) subject: eu response to the financial crisis with confidence in the financial markets at a low and the banking sector in disarray, is the council working to tackle the crisis and restore confidence by implementing a coherent and combined approach, or is it felt that member states are better prepared to manage the financial turmoil unilaterally? question no 7 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0840/08) subject: financial crisis and the stability pact the global financial crisis has exposed the inconsistent behaviour of european union governments and the european central bank, which are able to find funds to save banks from collapse, thereby breaching the provisions of the stability pact, when for many years they would not permit the slightest departure from the pact's rules in order to meet important social needs. what is the council's view? does it consider that, in the light of recent events, there is a need to review the provisions of the stability pact and the one-dimensional concept of the market economy, which has been the sole ruling principle for the development of europe? question no 8 by laima liucija andrikienė (h-0875/08) subject: eastern europe's situation and prospects in the context of the financial crisis eastern europe's fragility in the face of the financial crisis is a matter of concern for eu policy-makers. leaders of eastern european states feel that their economies are more vulnerable than their western partners. what main threats could the council highlight for the eastern european countries and baltic states in particular in this financial crisis? what prospects does the council see for the eastern european countries and baltic states in particular in the near future (2009-2010) and in the longer term?
i welcome council’s remarks and the general approach to the financial services crisis and, indeed, i hope that we will be able to build on the recent g20 results. as you mentioned, we need to build on that movement to create global results for global regulations and particularly financial supervision. i have to say that financial supervision requires financial support as well. we have seen this. this is taxpayers’ money, of course. but supervision, to be appropriate, needs appropriate solvency, not just for banks but also for insurance companies. i wonder, therefore, if you will also support group supervision and group support as stated in solvency ii, something not mentioned in your list of financial regulations, but which was thought up outside a time of crisis and could help us in crisis. if this is the case, perhaps the presidency could explain why, on 2 december, it intends to delete group support from this proposal, and realise how unhelpful this can be.
question no 10 by hélène goudin (h-0806/08) subject: political responsibility for abuses that occur during eu military operations testimony has emerged in sweden that the french military force involved in eu operation artemis in bunia, congo, engaged in the torture and fake execution of a prisoner. this incident is alleged to have taken place on 13 july 2003 and has been investigated by both the swedish and french armed forces. this incident raises many issues regarding future cooperation. are there any guarantees that the forces sent by eu member states on eu operations observe signed conventions and have competence under international law? how does the council intend to follow up the findings of the current french investigation into the bunia incident? question no 11 by hanne dahl (h-0807/08) subject: political responsibility for abuses that occur during eu military operations testimony has emerged in sweden that the french military force involved in eu operation artemis in bunia, congo, engaged in the torture and fake execution of a prisoner. this incident is alleged to have taken place on 13 july 2003 and has been investigated by both the swedish and french armed forces. the swedish evidence gave contradictory accounts and the french investigation came to the conclusion that no abuses had occurred, but the incident does raise a number of issues for the future. who should assume political responsibility for excesses committed by a member state's military force engaged in an eu operation abroad? if a member state's military force is found guilty of a war crime during an eu operation, is it possible to suspend that member state from eu operations for a lengthy period in order to defend the good name and reputation of military forces from the eu member states?
i see mrs dahl asking for the floor again. i can only give you one supplementary question and that is it, i am afraid. i am sorry, but that is it. (interjection from the floor)i am not in a position to force exactly what you would like to hear, maybe. the president-in-office has answered, and i am afraid that has to be an end to it unless you address further correspondence.
that concludes question time.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 20 november 2008.
mr president, we all understand the complexities of the current appalling situation in eastern congo, which is ethnically based and has its origins in rwanda, burundi and uganda. an effective mediation process between rwanda and the drc must be started as a matter of urgency. a ceasefire needs to be put in place and properly enforced, and the civil population clearly needs protection and urgent humanitarian assistance. i am reminded of the recent statement by the permanent representative of the african union to brussels in parliament’s subcommittee on security and defence, when he indicated his preference for africans to deal with security issues on their continent. i am pleased, therefore, that the eu has not sought to use the congo tragedy as an opportunity merely to put its label on another so-called eu military operation. it is primarily africans who must take responsibility for resolving the present situation, but we must give them every possible assistance in doing this through the african union and the united nations. meanwhile, there seems to be some ambiguity concerning the mandate, rules of engagement and use of force by monuc. monuc’s commander lieutenant-general vicente díaz de villegas recently resigned after seven weeks in the job. he cited personal reasons, but i wonder if it was not professional frustration. however, it is encouraging that on 6 november a thousand-member south african force deployed near goma as part of monuc. the monuc head claims that they have instructions to open fire if necessary. monuc must be able to act to protect civilians against imminent threats of violence. clearly there needs to be a substantial increase in numbers of effective un and au troops deployed in eastern congo and a clear idea of where they come from – there are many countries that could contribute to this that are not doing so at the moment. if the west fails to do all that it can to assist operations in the congo, there are other less high-minded actors waiting in the wings.
mr president, i do not regard myself at all as an expert in relation to congo, nor do i have any ready-made solutions, but i do know this: if five million people have died over the last 20 years, then we all need to be concerned. that concern for me is accentuated when i read some of the strictures which come from a number of ngos involved in the area. for example, a few days ago i read that amnesty international – not an organisation i always agree with, i should say – had this to say of the human rights, and particularly the humanitarian tragedy in north kivu province: ‘the un security council, the european union and the african union are sitting on their hands. they have so far failed to give the un peacekeeping force the reinforcements and equipment it needs’ to provide effective protection to civilians. i have listened in debates for an answer to that criticism. i have to say, frankly, that i have not really heard it. diplomacy is good, but diplomacy of itself will not deliver all the answers.
madam president, in my view, europe’s car industry has shown remarkable resilience in the past few years, despite some extremely tough economic conditions and a veritable deluge of eu legislation. our car manufacturers lead the world for environmental awareness, technical standards and innovation. it is a record that deserves to be supported and not undermined. i am particularly proud of the uk car industry and, if i may, would like to make a plug for my local nissan company – the most productive car plant in europe – which is located in my region in north-east england. nobody would dispute the importance of environmental protection, but i am extremely concerned that, in our rush to prove our green credentials, we are sometimes in danger of destroying a very important and successful industry. already we are seeing a massive fall in sales in the uk. sales last month were down 23%. rather than imposing a very rigid and inflexible timetable for change in the industry, we should be seeking to support the industry and give it the incentive to make the changes that are necessary to bring about their future. if the car industry has our political support – and our political support for the supplier and component industries too – we can help them to get through this difficult period. i hope that the commission will be extremely vigilant with regard to member states stretching the limits on state aid to car manufacturers. in britain we have a very long and a very unsuccessful history of state support for the auto industry. we managed to get out of that in the 1980s. i hope we will not go back there again because, if we pour public money into the car industry, what about the building industry, the construction industry and the food industry? all industries are suffering and we must be extremely careful with the hard-pressed taxpayer’s funds to ensure that we do not throw too much more of it into the car industry. this did not work in the past and will not work in the future. i hope the commission will be extremely vigilant in keeping an eye on errant member states that might be tempted down this unsuccessful road.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
we now continue with the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
mr president, if i were to set out to design the most expensive, wasteful, corrupt, immoral, bureaucratic system of farm support that i could, i am not sure that i would have come up with anything as ingenious as the common agricultural policy, a system that penalises us, as taxpayers, to subsidise the production of food for which there is no market and then penalises us again, as consumers, to sustain prices for it. it often penalises us a third time, as taxpayers, to destroy the food which could not be sold. in the mean time, it causes environmental destruction because output-based subsidies encourage the felling of hedgerows and the use of pesticides and unfriendly fertilisers, and of course causes terrible starvation in africa. this is particularly harmful, i have to say, for a country such as yours and mine, which is a food importer with a relatively efficient agrarian sector, and which therefore is penalised both positively and negatively, paying more into the system and getting less out of it than other eu member states. almost anything we did would be better than the common agricultural policy, whether direct support or any other system. and in case you thought i had forgotten to say it, it is high time we put the lisbon treaty to a referendum. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
in writing. − at present there are no harmonised standards with regard to community statistics on public health and health and safety at work. the harmonisation of such statistics will hugely improve comparability and enhance policy development. the common position on the whole accepts the amendments forwarded by this house at first reading and accordingly i was able to support the scheele report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the kauppi report. companies throughout europe should be able to operate in an environment free from excessive burdens. nevertheless, member states must be allowed to formulate their own requirements and the principle of subsidiarity should be respected. i am satisfied that the kauppi report strikes the correct balance.
in writing. − the collection of data plays a vital role in policy development and decision-making. the commission's proposal in this area will give a firm legal status to data collection and i voted in favour of mr schwab's report.
i scríbhinn. − ba chóir gurb é an aidhm a bheadh le hathchóiriú an cbt ná beartas a fheabhsú le go mbeadh saol na tuaithe ar fud na heorpa níos inbhuanaithe ar bhonn sóisialta, ar bhonn eacnamaíoch agus ar bhonn comhshaoil. tá meascán sa bheart “seiceáil sláinte” a mbeidh roinnt feabhsúchán ann agus a theipeann air ar bhealaí eile chun tabhairt faoi na dúshláin atá romhainn. tá saol na tuaithe agus an fheirmeoireacht go háirithe faoi mhórán bagairtí sa lá atá inniu ann. tugtar ar fheirmeoirí óga an talamh a fhágáil agus san am céanna tugtar luach saothair do mhór-úinéirí talún gan talamh luachmhar talmhaíochta a shaothrú. tá bithéagsúlacht faoi bhagairt fosta. aontaím gur chóir a bheith in ann na cúlchistí a úsáid d’fheirmeoirí nua agus óga, agus d’earnálacha sna réimsí is mó faoi mhíbhuntáiste amhail caoirigh – a bhfuil ról tábhachtach acu chun bithéagsúlacht a choinneáil. tacaím fosta leis an iarratas chun íocaíochtaí d’fheirmeoirí a thabhairt chun tosaigh níos luaithe sa bhliain le go mbeadh níos mó cobhsaíochta ann d’fheirmeoirí. éilíonn ár bpobail tuaithe an chobhsaíocht ina mbeidh siad in ann pleanáil don am atá le teacht.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party had a number of serious concerns regarding this report that will perpetuate and increase distortions within the european union and on a global level regarding agricultural production. in view of today’s vote where a series of amendments were carried to reinforce and worsen this situation i was unable on balance to vote in favour of either the amended proposal or the draft legislative resolution despite the fact that the report has other detailed elements i support.
in writing. − i support a 2% increase in milk quotas over four years as i believe the 2% will give the smoothest landing ahead of the abolition of milk quota system in 2015.
in writing. − conservative meps voted against this report as it is a step in the wrong direction. we consider it to be essential that the decoupling process initiated in the 2003 reform be extended to all sectors so as to allow farmers to produce what the market demands and achieve a genuine level playing field. this report resists decoupling and even tries to reverse decisions already taken, notably the inclusion of the tobacco regime in the single farm payment. the report would see production-linked tobacco subsidies extended until 2012 and clearly we cannot accept this. the report also allows too much flexibility in the use of article 68 which we fear will distort the market, will allow coupled payments in through the back door and may be challenged at the wto. finally, the exemption of the first eur 10,000 from modulation combined with a very low level of compulsory eu modulation will simply not generate sufficient revenue for a strong rural development policy and will hit uk farmers disproportionately.
in writing. − conservative meps supported amendments allowing for milk quota increases of at least 2% per year before the abolition of the quota regime in 2015 as means of preparing the ground for a liberalised, market-orientated dairy sector. we did not support those amendments which aimed to constrain quota increases. ultimately, no significant amendments were adopted in either sense, which means the commission proposal stood effectively un-amended. while the 1% annual increases proposed by the commission are preferable to no increase, we still consider this to be too timid a step. we also reject the report’s reluctance to do away with certain coupled payments and market support measures. as a result, we voted against the report overall.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive approach on these partial – but very long-awaited – more positive measures on migration and the position of third-country nationals within the european union. i welcome too the commission’s more positive view of certain of parliament’s amendments. the starting point for my group, the greens, has been to have rights which are as equivalent as possible to those of eu nationals – a common set of rights – and for the system to be as open and as welcoming as possible. i thoroughly agree with members who have said that it is a scandal that eu nationals are not at present treated on an equal basis, but i would urge members not to share the cautious approach of our member states in giving our own nationals equal treatment by penalising third-country nationals. there is absolutely no doubt that the eu has a need of workers at a variety of skill levels. we want people who want to come to use and develop their skills from a wide variety of countries – india, new zealand, ghana, china, wherever – and that is why we will not be supporting amendment 84, nor indeed amendment 24, which talks about granting blue cards only to those highly qualified migrants from countries with which we have previously concluded partnerships. i am not sure what the united states would say about that. it is true that we need to be careful regarding certain sectors in the world’s poorest countries, but we also need to be careful that these are not the only people who cannot develop their skills in the european union. we also need to take care that we are not using this particular proposal in order to write a general development policy. this is a global proposal. it covers all potential countries in the world. yes, we also need to maximise the skills in our own member states and that is why we support the amendment recalling, for example, the anti-discrimination legislation, which we also hope will be ambitious in its next stage. so we will support all amendments which safeguard the rights of individuals and we will vote against those which try to delete those rights. we welcome the efforts to simplify procedures, but we too regret that parliament has not been more ambitious, especially on the blue card, and that it has, in fact, put further hurdles in the way. so it is unlikely that we will be supporting that proposal as it is, although we certainly support the idea in principle.
mr president, the european union prefers to import yet more migrant labour rather than try to deal with the problem of those europeans already unemployed in member states. successful applicants for the so-called blue card work permit, who are allowed to enter one member state, will be permitted after 18 months to move to another member state. this includes their family and dependants. this is part of the european union’s emergent common immigration policy, in which it will dictate who can and cannot migrate to member states and on what terms. britain claims to have an opt-out from this policy, but the queen has given royal assent to the lisbon treaty, and we face the prospect of its full ratification by the other member states. if and when the lisbon treaty is fully ratified, britain’s opt-out will prove to be worthless and it is almost certain that we will be forced to comply with this directive.
i should like to express my personal condolences to ms klamt on the sudden loss of her father last week. i saw her shortly after she had heard the news, so my sympathy goes out to her. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 20 november. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, i had a childhood ambition of being one of the pioneers in space – i daresay many other children had the same – and when i grew up, in 1969, i was inspired by those images that came back to us from the lunar landing project, particularly the television image of the earth from space. space is now less of a headline-grabber, but it is extremely important for all the reasons that other colleagues have given and i applaud the european union commitment to a space policy. i visited the nasa goddard center in washington a year ago and, very recently, esa, the european space agency centre in rome, and to me the images they can show us of the work that they undertake make space as exciting as ever. in fact the more people see these images the more perhaps we will bring space down to earth. but what it also showed me anew was the relevance to science, to research and to the economy of the use of space, and the importance of the satellites and their launchers. commissioner, i have been made aware of concerns felt by satellite operators about the need to observe international agreements with regard to spectrum usage and satellite footprints. there is a concern that if any breach of international arrangements is tolerated, other regions will breach them too. it seems to me that effective exploitation of space depends crucially on observing common agreed laws and principles, so i hope the commission can reassure us and them on that point. we have a good story to tell of achievements and prospects in space.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am no pacifist – anybody in this chamber who knows me well would say that – but there is much about warfare and the arms trade which we must regret. cluster munitions to me are one of the most horrible ways of waging war which should always, of course, only occur as a very last resort. there is much evidence to suggest that these weapons disproportionately affect civilian populations, who must be protected above all in international law. cluster bombs can fall across a huge area and remain unexploded for very long periods of time, posing a lethal threat to civilians who could be killed or maimed long after a conflict has ended. they are also costly to locate and remove and cannot be formally mapped in the same way that a minefield can. sometimes children have picked these things up, thinking of them as toys, and losing limbs or perhaps even their lives as a result. as a father of very young children myself, few things could be more horrendous to think about. if we are serious about creating a european union of common values and sharing those values with the world, we must take a common position to promote an eventual ban on these terrifying and terrible arms, which are very blunt in their effect on the battlefield. we must also use all diplomatic means at our disposal to persuade others to do the same. we as the european parliament can rightly be proud of what we have done to try to rid the world of the scourge of anti-personnel land mines. we must approach this issue of cluster bombs with equal vigour and commitment, in order to build a better, more humane world and not see innocent civilians suffer in the aftermath of armed conflict.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, today we are appealing to the eu countries who are not currently planning to sign the convention against cluster munitions to do so. cyprus, estonia, finland, greece, poland, romania, slovakia and slovenia, alongside eu aspirants serbia and turkey, please join the other eu countries and more than a hundred states worldwide in signing this convention. for whom are we making this appeal? for suraj ghulam habib of herat in afghanistan, who when six years old lost both his legs when he found a cluster bomb he thought was a kind of food. he now finds it almost impossible to get to school or to play with his friends from within his wheelchair. for mrs chanhthava of sepone district in laos, who lost a leg and damaged her sight after she accidentally struck a cluster bomb while working to gather food for her family in the rice fields. she now has to send her daughter out to the same dangerous fields to collect the rice. for the 13-year-old georgian boy, beka giorgishvili, who this year, whilst at a friend’s house, became one of the newest victims as he was helping to pump up his friend’s new bicycle tyre. beka lost part of his skull and shrapnel remains inside. it is hypocrisy for eu countries to condemn russian aggression in georgia, yet fail to condemn the means of that aggression, which causes excessive harm to civilians wherever cluster munitions are used. it is also a hollow excuse for countries to seek to justify stockpiling cluster bombs as part of adhering to the landmines ban, when cluster munitions are equally deadly and have caused even greater humanitarian damage in the world. my own member state, the uk, has already started the destruction of some 30 million explosives, changed its export control regulations and directly contributed to the clearing of ordnance, including cluster munitions in georgia. europe is where these weapons were first used by german and soviet forces in the second world war, europe currently stockpiles an estimated one billion bomblets, and it is europe which should take the lead in the world in securing their obliteration.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as many people have said, civilians, many of them children, are indiscriminately killed or injured by cluster bombs every day. many of those child victims are disabled by cluster munitions and have to live with that disability for the rest of their lives. yet the shocking fact is that cluster munitions are stockpiled in over 15 eu member states. horrifyingly, there is evidence that at least seven eu member states are still producing these weapons. in my view these countries, as well as those that have used them – including the uk, my country – have blood on their hands. banning the production, transfer and stockpiling of cluster munitions will save many lives. this convention will also ensure the provision of much needed resources, such as medical care and rehabilitation to aid victims of cluster bombs. i urge all eu member states to sign and ratify this convention and not to try to redefine what we mean by cluster munitions so as to wriggle out of their responsibilities, as certain member states are trying to do.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the two opening speeches have rightly highlighted longevity as the most significant change in demography. that of course means people are living longer, mainly healthier lives, but in later years they become frail in body or mind. that has meant an enormous growth in neurodegenerative diseases and the cost of that is vast. drugs for parkinson’s disease in many countries cost more than drugs for cancer. uk research predicts that by 2051 there will be an increase of 154% of the numbers of people with dementia. long-term care: that comes later now. it used to come in the 70s. now it comes in your 80s and is increasingly coming in your 90s, but it is coming at an ever greater cost to individuals and families with implications for their savings. the challenge is to ensure longevity as a reward and not a punishment. we need to rethink our assumptions on ageing, moving from just ‘how do we care?’ to ‘how do we promote healthy later years?’. that means healthier lifestyles earlier in life of course; keeping off tobacco and drugs, sensible drinking, healthy eating, exercise, but also management of stress. flexible working lives: time for leisure and families. it means preparing for life after work with flexible retirement ages and the gradual movement into retirement that i have seen in the netherlands. it means greater social support in new and innovative ways, more domiciliary services so that people can stay in their own homes for longer. services and devices to match changing needs. when my mother reached 80 she needed a fax machine for communication. at 90 she needed a stair lift. at 100 she needed stimulation as her hearing and sight and mobility diminished. but the mind inside was good and needed to be protected and stimulated if she was to have a real and full life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is interesting how we often see the declining birth rate etc. as a problem. this is not necessarily the case if it means that we are then starting to share some of the inordinate wealth that we have at european union level with people coming from other countries and that we look at technical innovation and how we can increase productivity and maybe even produce fewer of the rubbishy goods that clutter up our lives and our planet at the moment. of course there is also an issue about making the best use of the potential labour force. this is why the anti-discrimination directives in the field of employment are crucially important and why it is essential that member states implement those properly. they should also look at the barriers to phased retirement – issues such as: if you cut your working hours, what does that do to your pension; what does it do to your life and access to benefits? we also ought to consider what is happening in the current financial crisis with regard to a lot of our thinking in this area. we are likely to see more older workers being laid off, because people are not implementing the anti-discrimination legislation properly, with all the implications for many of them of perhaps never getting back into work. there will be others who will find it even more difficult to start their working lives or to find promotion to build up their pensions: all those aspects of what happens if you are not working for a period of time. there is the question of disaffection amongst the young who cannot find work, for whom it becomes more difficult, and of course the problems that many people will face when their private or occupational pension schemes are not able to pay out in the way that they thought they would. so we also need to look at the demographic situation in the context of the current crisis and how we are going to use this opportunity in terms of increasing training. we should use that as a way of helping people to improve their skills, perhaps to find pathways to less physically demanding work – something that we have been saying for a considerable period of time needs to be done. we should look at how we might increase the higher-education qualifications of a number of people who never had that opportunity in their youth. we now have the opportunity to look at certain of the elements that we know are problematic and really begin to look forward to how we are going to tackle the demographic situation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, in the united kingdom we have 80 000 people living with hiv and, as the commissioner has said, 1 in 3 of those is undiagnosed. we also have 1 in every 360 pregnant women hiv positive. ten per cent of new cases in europe are multi-drug resistant strains, and that is heading in the direction of the 20% that we see in america. we see increasing numbers living with multi-drug resistant tb as well as with aids. the ecdc shows new cases of hiv infection doubled between 1999 and 2006. it showed 11% of cases are in young people aged between 15 and 24. we saw 53% heterosexual transmission, largely from people who originate from epidemic countries, but a third are men who have sex with men and, perhaps surprisingly, less than 10% are injecting drug users. but on top of all this – and i very much welcome what the minister said – we impose stigma. stigma is a cruel added burden to the pain of the disease and, what is worse, it encourages people to hide and not to come forward for testing and treatment. the solutions stem from these figures, from these facts. we need early diagnosis, as everyone has so far said. we need confidential testing, we need education, we need the understanding that flows from that and can counter that stigma. we need the ongoing research and development, and we need care because fewer people are actually dying of aids; more people are living with it.
madam president, i wish to congratulate the french presidency for its commitment to the fight against aids and hiv, and also congratulate those who have spoken in the debate this evening. it is a late-night debate on an issue that actually affects every single one of us every single minute of every single day. as a gay man living in the 1970s and 1980s, i could so easily have contracted the hiv virus. i was lucky. i did not. however, i watched as swathes of generations were cut down by a virus and cut down by discrimination and stigmatisation. that is why the message we need to send tonight is that we are committed to making available treatment and to having early testing, but above and beyond all that – and the brilliant and excellent work mr bowis did as a health minister in a conservative government – we have to say that what happens to you is as if it happens to me, or my daughter or my son. people do not go for early testing for one simple reason: fear of the discrimination that they will have to live with – that stigmatisation. i remember once in the early 1980s visiting a hospital to try and cheer up the patients – which i always failed to do! – and walking into an hiv unit to find that in one of the beds was one of my close friends. he could not even tell me that he was living and dying with an aids-related illness. that situation still exists, not only in our countries, but also on other continents. what happens on other continents affects us directly because, unless we engage with the communities most at risk, they will never hear the message. a sex worker who gets trafficked into the eu is as vulnerable as a visitor from the eu to africa or one of the other continents. that is why i welcome this resolution. 1 december 2008 is the 20th anniversary of international aids day, but little changes except the lives that accumulate, that go past and are destroyed. that is why i congratulate the house, the presidency and the commission, and all of the speakers, for being here to send a signal that what happens to them happens to us.
rapporteur. − madam president, we are tonight talking about the single cmo on wine. we actually very much support the idea of bringing all the common market organisations together into one organisation. however, we are concerned that we can identify exactly where the chapters on wine are, that we can access them properly and that, in the future, when we are dealing with wine and member states are dealing with wine, that you do not open up the whole 20 odd chapters – which are included in the whole single cmo – at the same time. we have now had many meetings with the commission to get reassurance on this. at the moment you are probably at the stage of bringing all these cmos together. we are seeking reassurance that we will be able to get the information we need. the industry itself, of course, is also concerned that it will be able to identify the rules within the single cmo. there is no doubt that the commission is telling us that this will mean a reduction in bureaucracy. we very much welcome that, but we want reassurance that this is exactly the case. we have been told that the technical organisations that give information on wine to the commission will be the same as they were previously and this will now work within the single cmo, so – provided this is the case and that we can actually go on to a computerised system in the future and identify all the regulations – we welcome this proposal. but we must be assured, at the end of the day, that this will actually be beneficial for the whole industry. i think there will be members tonight who will be seeking that reassurance from the commission. we look forward to the commission giving us these answers. i actually think that the way forward is to reduce bureaucracy in the commission and in europe. what we seek now is those reassurances. i welcome the single cmo. i am sure there will be other members here who have comments to make. what is absolutely apparent is that we must get this voted on now so that parliament gives its opinion and the commission can come forward and conclude this. i therefore recommend this to the house.
madam president, we are all well aware that the creation of the single common market organisation is an attempt to improve transparency and to streamline and simplify legislation on the common agricultural policy. most sectors have already been successfully incorporated into the cmo. like mrs mcguinness, i do not come from a wine-growing area, so i will be very careful what i say – thank you mrs lulling. i support mr parish’s view that the wine sector should now be included in the amendment, and while i understand the concerns expressed by some colleagues, i feel we should be aiming to complete this technical process, which will ultimately mean a reduction in red tape for farmers. that has got to be good. for wine-growing farmers it will be a bonus at the end of the day.
rapporteur. − madam president, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, as they say, so we look forward to the commission actually delivering on what it is saying, because we will need this in an electronic form in the future so that we can access it. the commission is promising that it will bring everything together in the one cmo, meaning that when we want to look into wine we will be able to do so and will not be accessing the milk cmo at the same time, thereby reducing bureaucracy. we have had all these assurances tonight, and most of us will vote in favour tomorrow because we have had those assurances. as i said, we then look forward to checking what happens. we take the assurances of the commission in the good faith in which they have been presented tonight, and look forward to working together on these cmos – or rather on the one cmo – in the future.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would first of all like to thank astrid lulling very much because it is very much on her initiative that we are presenting this. as chair, i will be presenting the report here tonight because we are extremely concerned about the situation regarding bees. what is happening to bees is very important to europe – to the world, in fact. for the last two years running a third of honey bees in the usa have mysteriously died. in 2007 some 800 000 colonies were wiped out. in croatia, five million bees disappeared in less than 48 hours. in the uk one in five honey bee hives is falling, and around the world commercial beekeepers are reporting losses of up to 90% since 2006. what is happening and just how serious is it for us and the future of mankind? albert einstein predicted that man would only have four years of life left if the bees disappeared from the earth, so we need to take this very seriously. if you look at honey bees, they are responsible for pollinating plants and flowers which provide about a third of all the food we eat. they are nature’s top dog when it comes to pollination and without them we can say goodbye to soya beans, onions, carrots, broccoli, apples, oranges, avocados, peaches and many other foods. there would be no more strawberries. you can imagine how wimbledon would not be able to survive without strawberries! we would not have lucerne, which is used in cattle feed. we are therefore absolutely dependent on the honey bee. of course they also pollinate cotton so we would not have any clothes either. we really do have to take this matter very seriously. in china, for instance, there are virtually no honey bees in some regions and they are having to pollinate a lot of crops by hand. the 90 commercial crops grown worldwide which rely on pollination generate around gbp 30 billion a year. bees contribute over gbp 100 million a year to the uk economy and around eur 400 million to the european economy, so you can see quite clearly that there is a huge problem. therefore i would ask the commission – and if possible i want to be able to hand over some of my time to add to astrid lulling’s because she was very much the driving force behind this – whether it can draw together more money for research. having talked to the professional beekeepers and others, we know there is some mystery as to why bees are dying, partly because their condition has been very poor in the last few years and they seem to be dying literally like flies. also there is a problem with having the right chemicals in place to cure the diseases of bees. i think as a commission you need not only to make money available for research but also to draw together what all the member states are doing. it is essential that we act now. we cannot wait until all the bees have died out because the problem will be incredibly serious.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also pay tribute to mme lulling, who has been tenacious to say the least in promoting and bringing this issue to the floor of the parliament. commissioner, i would also thank you for an impressive list of activities that the commission is undertaking into this grave issue and, if anything, i think we are looking for a greater degree of funding and coordination as well. there is a risk that different bits of the institutions are doing a lot of good work but we do not necessarily tie it together. i think that is where this debate can shed some light. it is a serious issue. the miners of old took canaries down into the mines with them to warn of poisonous gases. they warned of poisonous gases by dying. that was bad news for the canaries but good news for the miners. our concern is that the bees of europe are doing essentially the same sort of service for us. a third of the eu’s food – one in three mouthfuls of food – can be linked to bee pollination. there is a catastrophic decline in bees, and we must take action at european level. scientists are agreed that there has been a decline. we have heard already how severe it has been, but we are less clear as to what has caused it. is it the use of pesticides? is it climatic conditions? is it parasites and mites and other diseases, perhaps beyond our control? commissioner, i would also mention to you specifically the bumblebee conservation trust at stirling university in scotland which has done groundbreaking work into this. europe is not short of expertise. what we need to do is to tie it together. i think the text before us has a number of concrete actions which would take us in that direction – particularly apicultural set-aside, biodiversity zones, even alongside roads and unproductive land, research on pesticides, surface water and considering of aid. as we have heard already, if we can find a billion euros to inflict on african development, i think we can find money to fund our own research. it is right that we see eu action on this and – dare i say – this does constitute a pretty coherent plan b, where plan a, the common european agricultural policy, has failed europe’s bees. i do think we need to see a greater complementarity of actions already ongoing to alleviate that situation.
madam president, let me first of all begin by congratulating astrid for her work on this issue. as far as i am aware she has been talking about bees now for quite a long time so i am glad to see that this resolution put forward by the committee on agriculture and rural development has given parliament a chance to debate the problem currently facing the beekeeping sector. while this issue has attracted a lot of attention and publicity, possibly because it is somewhat of a novelty item, we are well aware that in reality the problems which we are facing are very serious and could potentially have devastating consequences. i am sure that i do not need to remind anyone of the importance of bees – and it has already been pointed out here tonight – not only for the production of important by-products such as wax and honey, but also for the role they play in pollination and the maintenance of healthy ecosystems. coming as i do from the county of armagh in northern ireland, which was well known within the island as the orchard county, where bees are very necessary to pollinate the apples, and i can say that it is already telling a tale in that particular area. in this regard, the commission urgently needs to step up its research on what exactly is causing such a sharp decline in the bee population and hopefully come forward with some solutions. the situation will only deteriorate if we cannot find a way to improve bee health and reduce bee mortality and stop the colonies of bees dying and disappearing. this is a source of great concern to all involved, not only within the whole of europe but even in the united states and beyond. i recently addressed a beekeepers’ conference in my region of northern ireland and it reaffirmed to me, as i listened to the many contributions during that morning, the concern that the beekeepers have at the loss of their hives, especially during the winter period. we need extra funds to develop through further r&d in an attempt to assess what is the reason for this calamity hitting the beekeepers. if we are doing something wrong, we need to find it out urgently. is it pesticides, or some other reason? there may be lots of theories and such speculation, but the truth is we do not have the answer, and we need that and to be given the extra support.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, well, commissioner kallas seems to have read a completely different document. i can assure him that as a uk plc this simply would not do at all. if any uk plc had filed accounts of this nature for 14 years which have been completely unacceptable, and again this year – and i do not regard the court of auditors as having given this a clean bill of health at all, and i have read the document – if the commission were a board of uk plc directors i have to say they would now be in prison! we have a situation here where this parliament, if parliament it is, which spends most of the year talking about bendy bananas, knobbly parsnips, standardisation of bottle sizes, and on tuesday we were even voting on the standardisation of tractor seats, so this absurd organisation spends most of its year doing nothing very much of value. we only have one serious responsibility, and that is to hold the commission to account on the budget. that is the most serious thing we can do; and it is going to go through again for the 15th year on the nod. it is an utter disgrace, and let the british meps know i am watching very carefully how they vote. i will make sure that it is known back in the uk what they do out here as opposed to what they actually say when they go home.
mr president, we all know that the european commission’s accounts can never be signed off until – and unless – two major underlying problems are finally resolved. neither of these problems is new. firstly, there is no certainty about the opening balances for the accounting system, which was changed in 2005, because a year later there were huge readjustments which made it obvious that no reconciliation was, or is, possible. secondly, there is the problem of shared management, which has already been referred to, or in other words the distribution of public funds to recipients who are then held responsible for both using and accounting for them. even the internal auditors in member states admit that that system is impossible to operate. for years, all we have ever heard – and we heard it again today from the court and from the commissioner – is well-intentioned talk about improvement soon, managing risk, error rates – trivia! the reality is that nothing substantial changes, and the public is losing patience, and rightly so. tinkering with the deckchairs on this particular titanic does nothing to plug the holes in the bottom. if the greek figures are to be believed, we still have olive groves in the aegean sea. the misuse of funds in bulgaria is reported to be out of control. in turkish-held northern cyprus, eur 259 million of public money has been handed over for economic development, but the eu office in nicosia openly admits it cannot monitor or control it, simply because we do not recognise the turkish regime. some of that money has just paid for new pavements in the booming holiday resort of kyrenia, where the casinos do a roaring trade day and night. the local regime chooses not to raise sufficient taxes and takes the view that if the eu is stupid enough to pay for them, then that is fine by them. yet that money could have been put to good use. not only are the accounts unacceptable, but some of the judgements on how public money is used are unacceptable too.
mr president, i should like to thank the court of auditors for its report and the commissioner and his team for the work they are doing. this is such an important subject, because there are so many failing and failed states in different parts of the world – i will not list them as they are obvious – and that is where criminality flourishes and spreads to the rest of us. so we have to tackle these problems and i am satisfied that we are moving gradually in the right direction. i deeply regret that there is nobody present from the council, because it is the member states who are failing to do their job in this area. there is not a single person present, and we should try to correct that for next year. i want to say one word to the absent mr bloom from my country, who made a silly speech about ‘knobbly carrots’ or something and then walked out and did not have the courtesy to listen to the rest of the debate. if he were here, he would hear me remind him that one major british government department dealing with pensions has failed to have its accounts approved for the last 14 years. so, we in britain have nothing to be proud of either. one of the things that baffles me about the uk is that the british government refuses to cooperate with olaf, which seems to be completely nonsensical and needs correcting. i would love to have an answer from the british government to that. my final point is addressed directly to you, mr president: when we make recommendations about the committees for the new parliament next year, i think we should consider seriously how to strengthen the committee on budgetary control – give it extra powers and responsibilities, so that we continue to work very hard on this problem.
mr president, as my friend mr bloom quite rightly said earlier, it is simply not true to say that the accounts have been fully signed off by the auditors. it seems that about eur 6 billion cannot be properly accounted for. at current exchange rates that is about gbp 4.7 billion. britain’s net contribution to the eu budget in 2007 was gbp 4.3 billion. the net amount is after the uk rebate and our own money spent in our own country. there is of course no such thing as ‘eu money’. an amount of money exceeding the uk taxpayer’s net contribution to the eu budget is quite possibly finding its way into the pockets of fraudsters. this neatly sums up british membership of the european union: a complete and utter total waste of money. more and more british people are realising that the european union... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, mr kallas’s stated aim at the beginning of his mandate was to achieve a positive statement of assurance, and throughout the different reports we have had from the court of auditors in that time, not much, to be honest, has changed. i fear, mr kallas, that in your reporting and your take on this current report, there is an experience of peter mandelson coming through the fibre of your being. you have had a touch of the mandelsons – saying that everything is absolutely fine and spinning that the accounts are clean is disingenuous and simply not true. blaming member states is not a decent defence, because article 274 of the treaty tells you that the buck stops with the commission. who gives the member states the monies in the first place? who, knowing where the problems lie – and you are told every year by the gentleman sat beside you – could tighten the purse-strings or cut off money to fund some programmes? mr kallas, the buck does stop with you. i am afraid that you have failed.
madam president, before i make my point, i would just like to make a comment to my colleague, mr martin. whilst he has some very valid points to make, in his scattergun approach he should not try and take out an honest, decent and good man like mr bösch, who in my experience of his chairmanship of the committee on budgetary control – even though we might disagree on many points – is exactly what i have described him as. my concern with olaf’s problem is that it has a huge conflict of interests going on. it is not necessarily olaf itself, but the strange relationship whereby it is part of the commission, even though it is occasionally called upon to investigate that body. that is why i am concerned that olaf, which was born following the 1999 ‘wise men’s’ report – and that report called for it to be independent of the commission – spends less and less of its time investigating internal commission matters. certainly some of its other investigations are very sexy and exciting, but i am not convinced that mrs gräßle’s report addresses the problems of olaf’s independence in this way. finally, i am concerned that there is another level of conflict of interests. should olaf members of staff be allowed to have relatives working in parts of the eu institutions that they might be investigating? indeed, should we not – this parliament that has banned spouses from working for meps – now extend this call to say that only one family member should work in any of the eu institutions to prevent such future conflicts of interests?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i find what the commissioner has said rather disappointing. i know that he is standing in for mr dimas and could not help but read out what was given to him, but i think we need rather more than that. environmental legislation is something that most people – perhaps all people – in this chamber are in favour of – perhaps even including ukip, who are apparently not here and are perhaps ironing their union jacks. the trouble is that we do not know what is happening in the member states, and the proposals from the european commission go only a very little way to improving that situation. we, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, are still in favour of having a directive rather than a recommendation. i do not, myself, see why we could not have a general directive regarding environmental inspections and specific rules attached to specific directives where that is appropriate. let me then turn to the question of an eu environmental inspection force. it is perhaps a little strange that this idea comes forward from the mouth of a british conservative – vote blue, go green – but we do need this, because, otherwise, the commission is entirely dependent on the member states for the information that they choose to give it. it is extraordinary that nine years after the landfill directive came into force, spain is now being prosecuted before the european court of justice for having 60 000 illegal landfills, taking up more than half-a-million tonnes of illegally dumped waste. we think we know what is happening south of naples. the birds directive adopted in 1979 is still being widely neglected. the commission often finds that its prosecutions before the court of justice on environmental matters are initiated by private citizens. i do not think that this is good enough. we should tell the people of europe that we cannot be sure that the environmental legislation which we are adopting is being complied with. given the fact that we are now looking at climate change legislation, that is very serious. we must return to the issue of an eu environmental inspection force, which i fully support.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
i think it is too late. it was clearer for me on the first vote than it was on the subsequent ones. i am sorry, but i have made my mind up on that one.
thank you very much, mr cohn-bendit. such good humour today!
madam president, in 1994 the west turned its head while genocide occurred in rwanda. the same could now happen in eastern congo. the immediate priority is humanitarian, but beyond that there is a delicate and tangled political mess to sort out. this is partly because the international community not only washed its hands of the genocide in rwanda, but allowed the hutu génocidaires to flee to eastern congo where president kabila did little to rein in the militias, to the disgust of kigali and the local tutsis. the un and the au must now take the lead in addressing the immediate political and security issues at stake, but we should also recognise that the competition for natural resources is behind funding much of this bloodshed. china is a serious player in the region but has little interest in the human rights of africa. the commission should examine whether a certification process for minerals and other resources could be applied now in africa in the same way that the successful kimberley process has worked so well with the diamond industry over blood diamonds or conflict diamonds. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
ms lulling, thank you for your attention to the detail of this measure. we can assure you that the language versions will be carefully checked.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the klamt report, which makes the eu a more attractive destination for highly qualified workers from third countries. it establishes a flexible fast-track procedure for the admission of highly qualified third-country workers, including favourable residency conditions for them and their families.
in writing. − i support workers' rights, which is why i voted in favour of this report. this should provide workers in third countries with a much simpler system for a single work and residence permit.
in writing. − paragraph 2 of this resolution deals with membership of the eurozone. in line with the convention of the uk conservative delegation on issues relating to the euro, we have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − while i support the thrust of this resolution, i and my british conservative colleagues are wholly opposed to the treaty of lisbon and cannot therefore support the reference to it in paragraph one.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation voted for this resolution as a straightforward endorsement of the recently negotiated un convention on cluster munitions. we believe that the convention has successfully combined principled and practical humanitarianism with appreciation of the military requirements of responsible armed forces. we have consistently held the view that an indiscriminate ban on the use of all types of cluster munition would negatively affect the operational effectiveness of our armed forces. we therefore draw special attention to the clearly defined exemption in the convention for the next generation of “smarter” munitions which are designed to self destruct and present a minimal risk to civilians. the british ministry of defence is currently developing a munition that falls within the terms of this exemption. in general, we believe it is important to maintain a sense of proportion in relation to risk management by our armed forces. while the british armed forces always seek to minimise harm to the civil population and limit collateral damage we should never lose sight of the fact that we are fighting terrorist and insurgent elements totally without scruples in the methods they employ for the indiscriminate destruction of innocent human life. it is these elements that should be the target of our ire.
mr president, aisha ibrahim duhulow was barely a teenager. she would probably have never known anything about the european union or its parliament. even as she was being gang-raped, or lay dying under a deluge of stones, she would probably never have imagined that politicians far away would recognise her ordeal and commemorate her very short life. but i am sure that as she died, she knew that she was the victim of a grave injustice. the sickening crimes she suffered are made all the more shocking by the bizarre details of this case: the crowd of one thousand people; the venue of a stadium, as though it was some kind of spectator sport; the truckload of stones ordered specially for the purpose; the gunmen who fired at people trying, to their credit, to save this poor girl’s life. somalia is a failed state, and there is little the eu can do practically to address the barbarity of the various clans and islamist militias in charge of areas outside the government’s control. where we can take a stand, however, is by asserting our own values, which are incompatible with sharia law. that is not just my opinion, but also the opinion of the european court of human rights. this tragic case merely reinforces our determination never to surrender our hard-won democratic freedoms to obscurantism.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, before we start the clock ticking i would also like to make a point of order on this matter. i consider it absolutely irregular and unacceptable that parliament’s rules can be altered because members from one side of the house choose not to turn up on a thursday afternoon. that is their problem – not ours – and we are perfectly entitled to operate within parliament’s rules, which should be the same for every period within the working week during strasbourg part-sessions. i would be grateful if you could now restart the clock for my speech. mr president, in these urgency sessions we debate the gravest abuses of human rights, involving torture, rape and murder. the al-kurd case in east jerusalem does not fall anywhere near that category. it is a civil dispute between two private parties, and we really have no business interfering in such a dispute. the family was evicted by the police, who were enforcing an order of the israeli supreme court. the family knew well in advance that eviction proceedings would be taken. the family had not paid their rent for 40 years, in spite of a court order ordering them to do so. this case has little implication on the wider issue of resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict. normally these debates are conducted in a bipartisan fashion. this debate, however, is simply another example of pandering to anti-israeli hostility and sentiments, particularly on the other side of the house. try as they might, they cannot disguise the fact that israel is a democracy where the rule of law and independence of the judiciary remains paramount. i wish we could say the same about the hamas-led authority in the gaza strip. colleagues, are there not many more pressing issues in the wider world that merit our attention in a human rights debate?
mr president, i propose an oral amendment to recital b, which would add the wording ‘on disputed ownership’. i can read the whole thing out if you want. it reads: ‘whereas this eviction was carried out on the basis of an order issued by the israeli supreme court on 16 july 2008 following long and controversial legal proceedings on disputed ownership before israeli courts and authorities’. otherwise it does not make any sense as regards what the controversy is. one has to actually specify what the controversy was in law.
mr president, i am afraid that i do not know the rules in precise detail, but i do not think you can submit an oral amendment to an oral amendment literally in the chamber unless the whole house agrees. i, personally, do not agree with that, and, i suspect, neither would most of my group. there is no such thing as an ‘apparent’ dispute: a dispute is a dispute. it went before the courts and that is the verdict. but i wanted to explain what the dispute was all about.
mr president, i am sorry to have to do this again but on recital d i am suggesting once again an additional two words in order to ensure clarity in law, because some of the interventions earlier suggested a certainty. this is not the case so the full recital would read as follows: ‘emphasising the fact that the eviction took place despite international objections; whereas the us has raised the issue with the israeli authorities; whereas this decision may pave the way for the takeover of 26 more houses in the sheikh jarrah neighbourhood of east jerusalem, with 26 other families targeted for eviction; having regard to the political ramifications of this matter for the future status of east jerusalem’. it is very clear. you cannot say it ‘will pave’: it ‘may pave’, and we need that to be in the hands of the courts, not in the hands of debates as enunciated by some of my colleagues earlier on.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last time we met we praised the council’s speedy response to the financial crisis. but for this european council, speed seems no longer to be of the essence. well, it should be. the challenges facing our union are real. the recession is smothering businesses and climate change grows ever more stark. we need the council and the commission to acknowledge what martin luther king called ‘the fierce urgency of now’. yesterday, our finance ministers failed to grasp the urgency of the recovery plan. the stimulus impulse is changing from sugar to treacle. the presidency should tell us which member states were against. we have to stay within the stability and growth pact, maintain competition and state aid rules and meet the challenge of the lisbon agenda, but we have to act fast. the council will, of course, search for a legally binding framework to cut carbon emissions. there has been progress. cap and trade, not regulation and burden, derogations for small-scale emitters, sensitivity to individual states’ circumstances and a sliding scale for carbon auctioning – all these are reasonable. what would not be reasonable is any attempt by any member state to shoot down a long-term plan for short-term self interest. if we do not tackle climate change now, the bill will balloon. last week’s deal on co2 from cars shows how easy it is to take the path of least resistance, to let vested interests get ahead of global interests. there will be costs in a climate-change deal, but there are opportunities too. europe can lead the world in green innovation. the prizes go to the bold. europe must have the courage of its convictions. last week, the irish published a thoughtful report on options for the lisbon treaty. now the taoiseach must come forward with a concrete plan and a clear time frame for moving forward, because europe’s citizens want an effective european union. you will never convince anyone to have more confidence in our union if it does not work. and we saw last week an example of the union not working. members of this house who escaped last week’s bombings in mumbai were met by an eu consul who told them he would help only citizens from his own country. nothing shows more the urgent need for coordinated eu consular protection. our union must protect all its citizens in their time of need. the commission president has said ‘we sink or swim together’. well, some may prefer to tread water, but europe has done that before and it does not work. we need action now from the european council.
madam president, whereas the total focus of this summit should be on the economic crisis afflicting us all, sadly much time will be devoted to how to subjugate the democratically expressed will of the irish electorate. the disrespect for the lawfully expressed opinion of a small country on the lisbon treaty is palpable. no one would dare try such a juggernaut, mugabe approach with a large country. but the voters of the republic of ireland are fair game to be pushed around by the european elite, to whom their precious lisbon project is more important than the democracy of a nation state. it is such arrogance, such intent on browbeating those who thwart their design which has brought the eu to such disconnection with its people. this whole unseemly saga has more of the politics of the bully boy about it than of democracy.
madam president, i am delighted to address this parliament once more as the recently elected leader of the british conservative delegation. i assure you that in the run-up to the european elections i will strongly argue for the kind of europe my party wishes to see, as well as being very critical indeed of the socialist europe which mr rasmussen – who has just left us – and his colleagues wish to see in their election manifesto published this week. it certainly makes very depressing reading. two of my colleagues were in mumbai with the trade delegation last week and were in great danger. may i put on record not only our condemnation of those atrocities, but also our thanks to the french presidency in particular, for the prompt action and protection which they afforded to the members of the european parliament on that delegation, including my own british colleagues. the council has a full agenda: the economic and financial crisis, the lisbon treaty, climate change and the future of the cap. i will only concern myself with economic issues now. in the united kingdom, the government has announced the largest level of borrowing in our history. our chancellor will double the national debt to gbp 1 trillion in the next five years. he has also announced giveaways of gbp 20 billion, while taking back gbp 40 billion in higher taxes. his so-called fiscal stimulus will ensure that our recession – as the commission has rightly said – will be the longest and deepest of any in the eu. only in countries with healthy public finances can a stimulus of the kind announced be of assistance. in the case of the uk, we are now saddled with massive borrowing for the foreseeable future. last week we had details of the commission's important recovery plan, which i believe contains some very positive items, but i fear that this initiative alone may not deal with the immediate problems. the focus should be to get the banks to lend to each other and to businesses and ordinary people. with unemployment set to soar, we must build confidence, not leave a legacy of debt and higher taxes for our children and grandchildren to contend with.
madam president, with respect to the treaty, i believe we are making some progress at last. the czech court and the irish parliament have comprehensively and decisively blunted the attack upon the treaty from the nationalist and reactionary forces. the distinguished representation of sinn féin has of course departed, but i speak on this question not as a lobbyist or a bureacrat but as a democrat. it is now up to the czech parliament and the irish government to take the next decisive steps. we need a clear pledge from the taoiseach that he is to hold a second referendum at a specific time and we need a more professional campaign plan. the parliament here appeals to the profound generosity of the irish people and to their sharp intelligence to see the seriousness of the consequences of a second ‘no’.
mr president, earlier minister jouyet made a reference to the mumbai terrorist attack, demonstrating solidarity with india. i sincerely welcome this. however, warm words need to be backed by action. given the massive increase in loss of life due to terrorist attacks across the world, where innocent people from east, west, north and south are increasingly targets, i believe it is remiss of the council not to put this issue on the agenda of next week’s council meeting. it is no less important an issue than all the other issues that we are discussing. the us is acting but europe not. as we speak, condoleezza rice is over there, but where is javier solana? tensions are increasing between two nuclear states. europe should and could do more, especially by looking at agreements such as its strategic partnership with india and by adequately resourcing the sentiments expressed there, so they can be achieved and realised.
mr president, in a situation where 25 or 26 countries have said ‘yes’ to the treaty of lisbon and just one has said ‘no’, it is not unreasonable, nor indeed undemocratic, to ask whether the one is willing to reconsider, but provided the rest of us are willing to meet the concerns that were expressed when they voted ‘no’. that is not to ignore the result of the irish referendum; it is to respond to the result of the irish referendum, look at the concerns that were expressed and try to meet them. but that of course requires ireland to tell us, to tell the other countries, exactly what concerns were expressed; to define a list of demands that we can then respond to or at least negotiate on. the solution of course has to be acceptable to all 27 countries. preferably that means not renegotiating the whole treaty but interpreting it, clarifying it, adjusting the way it could be implemented to meet the concerns. i for one am confident that can be done but it requires a first step from ireland. i am glad that the irish parliament has taken the initiative on this, instead of leaving it to the government.
mr president, we have heard quite a lot about coordination, but i am beginning to wonder whether coordination is any longer sufficient, whether we need to move to solidarity rather than just coordination because the crisis has moved from just being banks, which is bad enough, to being a crisis of countries. just as the coordination has justifiably moved up from national to european to global levels, perhaps we now need to consider whether more solidarity is necessary. i would ask the commission and the council whether they are indeed addressing the issue of the global institutions, as the oral question specifically requests about the international monetary fund, or alternative institutions that might perform the solidarity role on a global basis. my second question would be to do with the type of stimulus we should be looking for in fiscal stimulus, if that is indeed the preferred route. should value added tax be the route and should it allow for reduced rates of value added tax from the high or middle rate down to the lower rate in certain areas – and what are we doing about that? and is it not much better to have it concentrated in that way rather than spread widely on a much lower reduction level? regulation: we hear a lot, especially from our leftward-leaning friends, that we must have more and more regulation, destroy the hedge funds and private equity, credit rating agencies and so forth. however, can i just urge the commission and the council to consider the following? we must wait, we must think hard and carefully and we must at all costs avoid unintended consequences. if new regulation is justified – and it may be – it must be the right regulation and it must not turn out to be an impediment to recovery and prevent or delay that recovery. in some ways i would really like to give mr mccreevy support for his measured reaction to the problems and not condemn him, as many of our colleagues seem to wish to do. lastly, public finances. the stability and growth pact affects both euro countries and non-euro countries. if temporary excess deficits are justified – and that is a big if – they must be temporary, they must be recuperable to a realistic schedule and, if some countries can afford the debt but others cannot, then surely we return to this question of mutual solidarity. i would ask the commission and the council to tell me what they consider realistic schedules for dealing with this issue.
mr president, i would like to pay a special tribute to the german chancellor, angela merkel, who has become the new margaret thatcher of europe. she, like the iron lady, believes in balanced budgets and not spending your way out of the credit crunch and economic crisis in an unfunded way. instead and in contrast, the british prime minister, gordon brown, has got a massive borrow-and-spend fiscal reflationary crisis economic package, with no way of having a balanced budget. whilst i accept that it was our own british banks whose reckless lending landed us in the mess in the first place, with poor regulation and supervision by the government, i believe this fiscal policy – which is highly irresponsible – must also be accompanied by cuts in public spending and well thought out plans to fund it in the longer run. otherwise we will invite, after a period of economic shrinkage, a period of massive inflation which will erode all our savings and undermine european economies.
mr president, as rapporteur of reports on the enp, i have long supported israel’s increased involvement in eu programmes and agencies, which is mutually beneficial, given israel’s advanced status as a country in areas such as scientific and in particular environmental research. in recent weeks i have received many e-mails asking me to vote against this eu-israel enhanced cooperation agreement. however, i believe that the eu and israel are natural partners because they share the same values: democracy, the rule of law and personal freedom, and in particular a free press and independent judiciary. not all the eu strategic partners can say the same. china, for example – dear to the president’s heart i know – rejects those values, but strangely i do not receive many pleas to downgrade the eu’s relationship with beijing. that is because, sadly, the anti-israel element amongst the public and in this house remains strong. when that sentiment is based on reasoning, i can respect it, even if i do not agree. often though it is based on anti-semitism and anti-americanism, as the us is israel’s closest ally. last week in india jews were specifically sought out in mumbai to be murdered by jihadi terrorists. this demonstrates the need for the west to stand shoulder to shoulder in solidarity with the jewish state, as israel is on the frontline of an existentialist battle with islamist terrorists such as hamas, hezbollah and islamic jihad, who have proved their determination to destroy israel and our way of life. the european parliament regrettably narrowly voted today not to give its opinion on this agreement – dear to the incoming czech presidency – which in my mind is disastrous and will send all the wrong signals to the israeli public during a critical electoral period and will inevitably strengthen the hands of hardliners in israel.
it is not china that is dear to my heart, it is democracy and human rights in china, as in israel and palestine.
mr president, some would have us believe that this house today acted out of a crisis of conscience. i must say that i find that strange, considering how many times this house has endorsed agreements without a whimper in respect of countries which indeed have appalling human rights records and which indeed have governmental structures which are far from democratic. it seems to me that this house was blown off course today by an orchestrated campaign, from without and within, of very considerable venom against the state of israel, and that we allowed ourselves to be unduly influenced by that. the blind bigotry that some have shown against israel is quite appalling. israel is a democracy in a region where democracies are few and far between. it accepts a two-state solution. it has been subjected to the most horrendous external and internal terrorism and, in consequence, it undoubtedly has the right to defend itself. some in this house seem so concerned with their angst and hatred of israel that they are eager to excuse terrorist attacks and, indeed, eager to excuse the excesses of hamas in gaza, seeing fault only within the state that is under attack. i think that is wrong.
mr de rossa, the chair fully recognises and indeed shares your position.
president of the council. - mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not for the council to decide on procedural matters and the decisions taken in this field by your assembly. i would like to say to mr swoboda: let it be clear that the council shares the same objectives and agrees with what you said in your last speech, particularly on stabilisation. the union and the council condemn all violence, and in particular the firing of rockets at the civilian population, which must cease. the fight against terrorism must be pursued without letup. and as far as the union is concerned, but more specifically, you will allow me to say, the french presidency, the fate of corporal shalit is one of the major concerns. the european union is deeply concerned and condemns the recent acceleration in the expansion of settlements. it is urgent to put an end to the continuation of settlement activity, which includes natural expansion, including in east jerusalem. it is contrary to international law and jeopardises the creation of a viable palestinian state; the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child. the humanitarian situation in gaza must be improved urgently by continuing the truce, reopening the crossings, providing goods and services to the population, ensuring the capacity of the agencies in charge of aid, including unrwa, to provide aid, and finally releasing more palestinian prisoners, especially minors. so we share the same objectives, and i want to make that as clear as possible to the house. the problem is how best to press for what you want: the creation of two states living in security within a stable peace process, in which the union has its full place. the question is whether it is through dialogue and trust that we can achieve firmness on the principles i have just mentioned and which must be respected by israel or whether, indeed, it is through a method of dialogue, as the council believes, and it still thinks, after listening to this debate, that it is striking a wise balance. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the strengthening of relations is part of the more general framework for the establishment of the union for the mediterranean, the development of a european neighbourhood policy. i would like to recall that the proposed upgrade was preceded by the granting of enhanced status to morocco, which is a strong political message to our arab neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean, that in the negotiations with israel we have not forgotten the palestinian authority, that the european union and the palestinian authority agreed in the summer of 2008 to set up new working groups to speed up the implementation of the action plan concluded in 2005. and we are committed, i repeat here, as the presidency, to advancing the work on all aspects, including the political aspect, which remains inseparable from the relations we must have with the state of israel. it is this comprehensive approach that gives meaning to the enhancement of the union's relationship with israel and it is this political dialogue that we believe will make it possible to ensure that the principles you have all mentioned are better respected and defended, and that the union has its place in the framework of a comprehensive settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict.
vice-president of the commission. - i would like to give you three brief points to consider at the end of this debate. firstly, in a debate on our cooperation with israel, which rightly deals with the human rights and humanitarian problems of the palestinians, it should not be forgotten to point out that we have a special responsibility towards israel. our policy towards israel is not determined solely by interests, but by the fact that the very existence of the state of israel has something to do with european history and that this implies a special responsibility. and the second thing that comes out of this is that the partnership that we are seeking with israel, or that we may have already achieved, that partnership has to be reliable. we demand reliability from our israeli partners, and israel can rightly demand reliability from us. israel has been offered to cooperate in these projects and policies. it may interest you to know that israel was the first country - the very first country - to be offered an action plan under the european neighbourhood policy, and for good reason. that was in 2003. i did it myself. and the last thing i want to say is that these programs and policies that we're talking about here are not an end in themselves. they have a deeper political reason. the deep political reason is to show israel that there is a long-term cooperation perspective for israel with europe, a perspective that israel needs for the post-conflict period. and that's what israel needs to be able to end the conflict at all. the other is that, however small these initiatives may be, there are a number of things that allow us to support bilateral and trilateral projects. i myself have recently been to jordan, israel and palestine to talk about an initiative that would allow us to make policy for small and mediumsized enterprises in a trilateral framework. we also have research projects that are bilateral. this means that we have a framework instrument which allows us to go beyond the borders and achieve exactly what we want: cooperation and normality in this crisis region. i'm not drawing any conclusions from what i just said. i'm just asking you to consider that in your future decisions.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution see minutes.to wind up the debate tabled under rule 103(2). the vote on the report by mrs de keyser and the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place during a subsequent part-session. written statements (rule 142)
i scríbhinn. – droch-chomhartha a bheadh ann dá bhfeabhsódh an ae an caidreamh le hiosrael faoi láthair. thabharfadh sé le fios go raibh an ae ag déanamh neamhiontais d'ollsáruithe leanúnacha dianseasmhacha ar chearta an duine agus ar an dlí idirnáisiúnta. is ionann sin agus a rá, beagnach, go dtugann an ae saoirse d'iosrael leanúint de ghníomhaíochtaí diansmachtúla agus neamhdhleathacha, le hathlonnú atá éigeantach don phobal, le feallmharú seachbhreithiúnach, le forghabháil na palaistíne agus le balla neamhdhleathach agus le lonnaíochtaí. ba chóir dúinn an oiread brú is féidir linn a chur ar iosrael sa dóigh go mbeadh air a ghealltanais faoin dlí idirnáisiúnta agus faoi rúin na a chomhlíonadh. ní mór dúinn inniu, mar fpeanna ar fud na heorpa, teachtaireacht láidir a chur chuig iosrael go bhfuil ár sá againn de. sa bhliain 2002 vótáil parlaimint na heorpa chun comhaontú chumann ae-iosrael a chur ar fionraí toisc ollsáruithe iosrael ar chearta an duine. agus sin ráite, táthar ag caint anois ar iosrael a bheith rannpháirteach i gclár ae a dhéileálann le hiomaíochas agus nuáil eacnamaíoch cé go bhfuil iosrael ag scriosadh gheilleagar agus bhonneagar gaza d'aon turas. fáiltím roimh an chinneadh an vóta maidir le feabhas a chur ar chaidreamh an ae le hiosrael a chur ar ceal.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on steps towards improving the environment for smes in europe – small business act by nicole fontaine and giles chichester, on behalf of the ppe-de group, and edit herczog, on behalf of the pse group (o-0113/2008 – b6-0485/2008).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, given small businesses’ importance in the economy for employment and job creation, enterprise and wealth creation, innovation, new products and new services, now is a very good time for us to do something to boost their efforts in difficult times. there is a tendency at eu level to wax enthusiastic about smes’ potential and performance. indeed it would be rather difficult to be negative. however, the thrust of this question and the motion for a resolution is that we must go beyond rhetoric and deliver concrete action. one of the priorities identified is the need for improved access to finance for smes. this is a perennial cry, for the problem is long-standing. yet now in the financial crisis, when a seizure of credit is hitting all business, it must surely be worse for smes, which tend to be at the end of the food chain as far as orders and payments are concerned. so i strongly support the call for making finance and credit more available. the question is whether the banks will respond. based upon my own experience of working in, and then running, a small business, it is very difficult to define forms of assistance and support that can help all smes, because they are so varied. i feel that the best sort of help is access to information and i believe that the internet has made a huge change in that respect from my time in business. the next best thing is to be left alone to get on with the business. so, while i recognise that it is not possible to have no regulation, i also support the priority of better regulation, not least because that is something that legislators and governments can do. i support the call for action from both the commission and the member states.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, small-scale enterprises are central to my region. the west midlands’ industries will welcome the think small first principle. however, the current financial crisis has left many small businesses facing severe difficulties. as we have already heard, they are dealing with cash flow issues and unpaid debts and cannot access credit. the latest insolvency figures for my region point to 500 businesses going bust in the last three months. therefore, i welcome the eib funding. however, i do not believe that the proposals so far go far enough in relation to their binding nature – which could really help the sme sector. so my question to the council is: how are you going to address this next week? i have heard what the competitiveness council has said, but the important thing is that, unless the proposals have a binding character, it is not really going to help small businesses right now; it is not going to help them to access markets or to access finance. i believe i have heard it said for very many years that it is very important that the council clarifies that it intends to cut administrative burdens. small businesses face considerable costs. where big companies spend eur 1 for each employee, a small business can spend up to eur 10 for each one. finally, i would just add one point. whilst it is very important to manage financial crises, more needs to be done for the smes right now, because they are the real economy.
mr president, the title of this question speaks about improving the environment for smes. could i suggest that, if the eu really wants to help, rather than indulging in predictable rhetoric, there is something meaningful and immediate which could be done. why could we not initiate a ‘regulation holiday’ for smes during the current global crisis? compliance with tier upon tier of eu regulation is so demanding, so onerous and so expensive that it is stultifying eu output and prosperity. the cost is unbearable. it amounts to billions per annum. at a stroke, through a ‘regulation holiday’, we could save businesses billions per year and allow them to grow.
mr president, last monday during his visit to belfast, president pöttering enthused about the eu supporting what was euphemistically called a ‘conflict transformation centre’ at the site of the former maze prison, where some of the most vile and vicious terrorists were properly incarcerated. that was also where ten convicted ira terrorists committed suicide during their hunger strike. what the president perhaps did not appreciate is that, because of this history, irish republicans – who love to wallow in self-pity – are determined to effect their own transformation on any such centre and turn it into a shrine for some of the most evil terrorists known to this generation. hence the folly of the eu falling into the trap of funding such an obscenity and the foolishness of the president ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on behalf of the delegation for relations with india, may i firstly give my sincere condolences to the families and friends of all those who were killed in last week’s horrific terrorist atrocities in mumbai and wish all those injured a speedy recovery. my sympathy also to colleagues and officials of the european parliament caught up in these horrific and outrageous attacks. i have written to the indian prime minister and the chief minister of maharashtra to express our sympathy. coordinated attacks such as these are designed to spread fear and mistrust amongst citizens and to test democracy’s commitment to deeply held values. as such they require a robust response from all those who cherish democracy and international law. therefore i welcome president pöttering’s strong statements in support of india. as a parliament we need now to move away from words and provide concrete actions that can support india’s needs.
author. − madam president, like guido sacconi i can be fairly concise about this. this was perhaps the biggest dossier that this parliament has known in recent years. it is one of the biggest operations on which it has embarked, and is of crucial importance in terms of the health and safety of people as they handle, use and consume chemicals which may be hazardous, dangerous or risky and so require great care. that is why we set up reach. that is why we brought in the pre-registration process and, subsequently, the authorisation process. that is why we are concerned to hear that it has snowballed in such a way as to almost suffocate this newborn agency. guido sacconi said that he was not sure about the number of pre-registrations, but he thought that they were over one million. i can tell you that, on 1 december, when the process closed, that figure was over 2 million. it was 2 212 129 registrations from 65 655 companies. that is the scale of what has happened. the question is: why so many? the answer, i suspect, is because a lot of firms were advised to take precautionary measures in case they had to go through the much more expensive processes later. but the question then is: in september when we were first alerted to this, was the commission able to step in to give support? does the commission believe that the registration process will now be adequate, and what steps will it take to make sure that the rest of this agency’s processes work smoothly and effectively?
on behalf of the aldegroup. – mr president, you cannot just take note of these points of order. it is the clear will of the people in this chamber to have mr borloo here and to hear what he has to say before the debate, so let us wait. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr. president-in-office, we were told that you had flown in from paris. if that's true, next time you take the train, it would allow you to be here on time and preserve your environmental reputation. mr president, the union may be days away from an historic breakthrough in combating climate change. our national leaders like to talk in shades of green, but now we are going to see the colour of their money. in march of last year they agreed to a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 and now we hear the shuffling of cold feet in the council. our job is to turn up the heat. as you have said, mr president, climate change is the greatest challenge facing us. although there are some who yelp that they cannot afford to cut carbon emissions as they agreed, it is irresponsible of italy to claim that it would push up power bills by 17.5%. renewable energy generation will bring down bills, and will save us not only money but lives. there are signs of progress on the deal. we are about to embark on a real market-led cap and trade system, one that would be sensitive to the needs of member states while still achieving its goals, but we need the council to reaffirm the commitment to 20% renewable energy by 2020; we need the council to map out the route to accountable and transparent effort-sharing in those areas not covered by the emissions trading scheme; and we need the council to commit to the research that will unleash the potential of green technologies like carbon capture and storage. we must act to make sure that a combination of industrial lobbying and national self-interest, which has cost us progress on car emissions, does not blight next week's historic opportunity. europe has a chance to lead the world in the quest to cut carbon emissions, to bring about real change to the benefit of future generations. when has so noble a quest been right there within our grasp? the council must keep its word.
mr president, we are undoubtedly facing the greatest crisis that i have seen in my lifetime, but the threat is posed not by global warming but by our policy responses to global warming. it is certainly true that the earth has warmed slightly and intermittently over the last 150 years, but that change is entirely consistent with well-established, long-term natural climate cycles established over thousands of years. we have seen the holocene maxima, we have seen the roman optimum, we have seen the medieval warm period. it now appears we are moving into a new 21st century climate optimum. the fact is that the sea level is rising no faster today than it has been for centuries. the fact is that total global ice mass is broadly constant. the fact is that extreme weather events are no more frequent today than they were a hundred years ago, and that the polar bear, far from being threatened as a species, has in fact shown a dramatic increase in population over the last few decades. it is true that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, although a much less important greenhouse gas than water vapour, but the effect of co2 climate forcing is non-linear. it is a law of diminishing returns. from the current level of about 380 parts per million in the atmosphere, further co2 increases will have a trivial effect. meantime our policies will have a devastating economic effect. the damage will be vast. our unachievable renewables targets, especially with regard to wind energy, actually threaten to cut off supplies of electricity. the policies will fail as kyoto has failed. even if the west cuts emissions, clearly the emerging markets of china and india will not. co2 levels will keep rising for at least half a century. the fact is that 1998 was the hottest year in living memory and for the last ten years the world has become cooler. the measures we are debating today represent the greatest collective flight from reality that we have ever seen.
mr president, firstly i want to thank the french presidency because it is committed to getting a deal and so are we. but, as people have said, it cannot just be any deal. i am the pse group’s shadow for the emissions trading scheme and we want a number of things. we want to make sure the bulk of the effort is made in europe, not by offsetting. offsetting must be subject to strict quality controls; it cannot just be any old projects. we want identified funding to tackle climate change mitigation. we cannot go into international negotiations with vague promises about the funding for developing countries. i now want the council to move on this issue of earmarking. we need some movement there. we cannot go naked into the conference chamber. we need clear criteria on carbon leakage to give certainty to our businesses and to make sure they are not disadvantaged. mr borloo, you spoke about special arrangements for some countries in difficulty. i think that is acceptable, provided they are time-limited and do not undermine the overall architecture of the project. this group will support those special arrangements if they are in that context. a lot of people have talked about leadership this morning, about europe leading. yesterday some of us met some of the key players from china and the united states, who were going to be in poznań and will be in copenhagen. to be honest, they are pretty sceptical about europe leading on climate change and they made it very clear that, if we do not lead, they have their own plans. so europe has to make a choice: either we lead or we dance to other people’s tunes. you mentioned the economic crisis. it was failure to act to regulate financial institutions which has caused this crisis – failure by politicians as well as banks. let us not make that same mistake on climate change. if we do, it will be ordinary people who will pay the price for our failure, just as they are paying the price today for failure on the banking crisis.
mr president, it is one thing to get agreement from 27 member states on some noble words and a great deal more difficult to secure support for practical action. i think the deal we have just done on cars and co2 demonstrates that: it is really not the most ambitious measure that we could ever have imagined. but if we fail to advance significantly on every front, we can at least look to some technologies where i think more progress can be made. you will know that i am speaking here in particular of carbon capture and storage. i think the council really has to appreciate just how much potential this technology has to make a huge difference in abating co2 emissions into the atmosphere. if we are to secure an international agreement, if we are to lock china in – which gets 80% of its electricity from coal – we have got to deal with the problem of big power stations, big fossil-fuel, carbon dioxide-generating power stations. the first step is to test and develop the technology. we have got to get the demonstration projects up and running. so i very much welcome the support that the presidency and the commission are now giving to the principle that we should be using some ets allowances to provide the necessary support funding. but the criticism is clear. what is on the table from the council is not enough. it will not deliver the pledge made by heads of government last year to have up to 12 demonstration projects in operation by 2015. this technology can make a huge difference. in the next two weeks we have a chance to negotiate a deal to actually put this technology into practice.
mr president, i share the anger and frustration of all those who are rightly criticising people in this parliament and council who are trying to destroy our commitments to an ambitious climate and energy package. the eu is now calling into question its own 30% commitment, seeking to offset most of what reduction effort it sets itself, whittling away the auctioning demands of the power sector and almost all other industries, putting in place car efficiency standards that are worse than the status quo, and criminally failing to commit funds for solidarity with developing countries. all this means that the eu’s climate package is looking increasingly empty, and europe’s politicians will not be forgiven for such a monumental failure of political leadership. i want to challenge one sentiment that has been repeated several times today. we do not have to choose between tackling the economic crisis and tackling the climate crisis. we should be using the financial crisis as an opportunity to completely reshape the focus and direction of our economy, to make it a genuinely sustainable economy which will actually deliver environmental and economic benefits. this is a critical test for the whole eu project itself, and it is not one we can afford to fail.
mr president, thanks to the determination of the rapporteur, we have made huge progress in the negotiations on renewable energy. it was disappointing not to reach complete agreement last night, but the one clause at issue is not just about keeping inviolate the 20% by 2020 target: meps have worked long and hard to ensure that there is legal certainty in the flexibility mechanisms which member states can use to help them achieve their renewables targets. a review of the flexibility mechanisms in 2014 risks undoing all that good work. it risks undermining the large-scale development of renewables and green-collar jobs which promise a renaissance for european regions like mine, north-east england. that is why we cannot give in on wording which is being insisted on by just one member state. but much positive progress has been made on the renewables directive. we have achieved a strong text on biofuels and, crucially, indirect land-use change will now be factored in at the insistence of the parliament. i am also pleased that member states will be required to push energy efficiency in order to achieve their renewables targets more easily. at this point we must keep our nerve on the renewables directive – as indeed on the entire climate package. this legislation must work well for the eu, but it must also work as a strong offer on the table of the global negotiations.
mr president, i am delighted to have the opportunity to contribute to today’s debate. i was principally involved on behalf of the ppe-de group in mr sacconi’s report on car co2 emissions, and took part in the trialogue, and i would like to pay tribute to his work in helping to secure an agreement on this legislation. i can report that the ppe-de group last night agreed that we would support the draft agreement in the plenary vote. that legislation has now been agreed and it ensures that we can encourage the vehicle manufacturers to move towards producing cleaner, greener and more efficient cars, but hopefully doing so in a sustainable way that will not cost jobs and prosperity in the industry. like mrs hall, i too represent the north-east of england, and my region has very many thousands of jobs dependent on the car manufacturing industry; i hope that none of those will be affected by this legislation. let me say a word about the process. i have been particularly concerned that, during the progress of this legislation, it is being speeded through both the council and parliament with sometimes undue haste. many times we were faced with receiving the 60-page documentation only an hour before the actual formal trialogues took place. even before the final trialogue on monday the commission was still tabling technical adjustments to the wording a matter of minutes before the actual negotiations took place. i do not believe that this is a good way to proceed. i think it is bad that there has not been proper scrutiny of this very important legislation either in the council or in parliament. i understand that is also the case with some of the other dossiers. i really believe that it is important that all of this legislation is scrutinised properly and that everybody has the chance to contribute to the debate. we must make sure that we get this very important legislation right and that there are no mistakes that we might discover in future.
mr president, eyes and minds are now focused on the key issues and that is why i think we are making progress but, minister and commissioner, you have not heard today the voice that i think you should be hearing and that is voice of the low-income countries. some of us have just returned from the acp meeting in papua new guinea and we know that the low-income countries are the biggest victims of our past growth and they need our support. the pacific islands are quite literally sinking beneath the waves. global warming is bringing new diseases, mosquitoes carrying malaria and dengue fever into that region. we return to find letters from the peripheral maritime regions of europe saying much the same thing. they are desperate for us to take action to support them, too. at the acp meeting we looked at the consequences of failing to prevent and failing to manage climate change. even if we meet our 2o target that means a 25% reduction in water availability; it means a 10% decline in crop yields; it means 50 million more people subject to malaria; it means 10 million more subject to coastal flooding; it means dramatic increases in respiratory, cardiovascular, vector-borne diseases, skin cancer and eyesight problems. if they fail, we fail. their diseases are already our diseases. their migration will become our migration. their desperation could lead to desperation as they spill across our borders too and it is for our sakes as much as for theirs that we must help them make progress, and make it quickly.
madam president, on a point of order, i should like to inform the members of this house that this morning the court of first instance in luxembourg ordered that the people’s mojahedin organization of iran should be taken off the eu terror list. this is the third time this ruling has been made and this should be a warning to the council and the commission that their attempts to appease the mullahs and the oppressive regime in tehran by putting the pmoi on the eu terror list constitute an offence against freedom and liberty. (applause)
a uachtaráin, is gá don aontas eorpach spriocanna uaillmhianacha a aontú le gur féidir leis an eoraip an bealach a threabhadh chun dul i ngleic le hathrú aeráide. tá tréimhse éiginnte eacnamaíochta romhainn, ach ba chóir go dtabharfadh an cúlú eacnamaíoch misneach dúinn aistriú níos gasta a dhéanamh chuig an gheilleagar nua glas chun déileáil le cuid mhór de na seanfhadhbanna maidir le héileamh ola agus maidir le hídiú fuinnimh. maidir le gsc, tá sé tábhachtach an caighdeán nua feidhmíochta astuithe a bheith ann, ar chóir dó a bheith i bhfeidhm i ngach stáisiún cumhachta ó 2015 anonn, ar a mhoille. tá sé tábhachtach comh maith go mbeidh monatóireacht leanúnach agus critéir shábháilteachta ann fosta.
in writing. – i welcome the progress that has been made in the talks between parliament and council over the last few days and late into the night last night. there is still some way to go, and i urge both sides to make the last effort to reach an agreement capable of being approved by the parliament before christmas. to be acceptable to parliament, the package of measures must be sufficiently vigorous for us to achieve the agreed eu targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions and a 20% increase in renewables by the year 2020 – but also to enable us to go further and raise this up to 30% in the event of an international agreement. i am also pleased that there seems to be agreement that the biofuels target should be subject to strict sustainability criteria. some have qualified the package of measures as being extreme. if so, then i am an extremist – but i would point out that moderation in the face of a threat to the very future of this planet would be no virtue and vigorous action no vice.
madam president, i am very pleased indeed to be able to make a contribution to this debate very briefly because it is important in the times in which we live, when the third world is suffering greatly from lack of food, to realise that we in the european union, although facing an economic crisis, are nevertheless extremely wealthy compared with the third world. therefore i am very pleased by the fact that we in parliament are recognising that we have a moral and political duty to those who are in dire danger. we only have to see the pictures sometimes on our television sets to realise that the matter is extremely urgent. so i congratulate mr mitchell on this report. it is a welcome development that is worthy of our support and i am very pleased that i was able to give it mine.
madam president, like mr sumberg, i would like to say why we voted for this report. it was quite a difficult decision because we are paying for the transfer with taxpayers’ money. but what we are doing is actually feeding a hundred million people, who would otherwise have died by the end of next year. the world food programme is feeding 20 to 25 million people who are at risk from malnutrition and death by the end of 2009 if we do not do this. one billion people are now living on one meal every two days. if we spend this money wisely, we will give them one meal every day. twenty-five million people is half the population of my country, the united kingdom. i do not wish to stand in this parliament next year and say that i stood aside and watched half the population of my country dying of starvation because we did not do this. i am very pleased indeed that we have voted to put this emergency facility in place.
madam president, the garcía-margallo report is a report which i can approve because we are all engaged in trying to prevent tax evasion, which is important, and particularly tax evasion in relation to vat. the black economy, which exists in all our countries, is something which is disadvantageous to the taxpayer and something which we should all be concerned about, because it means that the taxpayer loses out. but i would like to add a rider to that by saying that it is absolutely essential that individual nation states should have the right to determine their own rate of vat. that is not a matter for the european union. in britain, the chancellor of the exchequer has recently reduced the vat rate in an endeavour to combat the recession. i do not think it is a very effective measure and i do not think it will make any difference, but his right to do so for an individual country is important. that is the rider i wish to make in relation to this report.
madam president, i am glad to be able to comment on this. i am concerned about the european union’s involvement in this matter simply because this is a matter for international agreement and one-sided action by the european union would make really no difference. furthermore, i think the reference in the report to the european security arrangements is unfortunate. the basis of european security is nato. it always has been and it always will be and that is so because nato includes our friend and ally, the united states of america. certain parts of this parliament are very anti-american. i am not. i remember the debt that this continent owes to the united states for our freedom and our membership of nato. our alliance with the united states through nato is the basis of our defence and security and will be in the years to come.
in writing. − i congratulate my colleague on this agreement with the republic of korea on co-operation on anti-competitive activities. as members will be aware, we are currently negotiating a free trade agreement with korea. it is supported by both government and opposition in seoul and this house, in endorsing an earlier report by mr martin, signalled its agreement in principle. both sides seem keen to finalise an agreement before next june’s european elections. today’s agreement can only help that process, even accepting that there are some tricky issues remaining, such as automobiles and rules of origin regarding the kaesong industrial complex.
in writing. − i hope my report and the commission proposal will provide significant benefits to both korea and the eu. korea is the fourth largest non-european trading partner, so it is important that we have anti-competitive safeguards.
in writing. − we of course sympathise with the plight of poor countries. however, we feel that the eu policies, such as the common fisheries policy, common agricultural policy and protectionism in trade, are at the root of many of these problems in the first place. we believe nation states are best placed to help developing nations on an intergovernmental basis, not top-down supranational agencies whose policies are to blame in the first place.
in writing. − i support this report because in the current global financial crisis it is more important than ever to meet our commitments with developing countries. the additional eur 1 billion will make sure that developing countries are not left behind.
in writing. − this is a time of deep financial and food crisis. rising food prices have had extreme negative effects in developing countries. poverty has increased and achievement of some millennium development goals is threatened. high prices have resulted in riots and instability. therefore i voted to support this proposal to take eur 1 billion of unspent support for eu farmers and use it to assist struggling farmers in developing countries to buy essential items such as seeds and fertilisers. i am pleased that we in the european parliament have been able to reach a consensus with national governments on the details of how this will work.
in writing. − if ever there was a time that support was needed for small businesses and smes, it is now. the current economic climate is acutely affecting them, whether it is difficulties with maintaining cash flow or the impact of reduced consumer spending. we must ensure that, in the context of the current economic crisis, smes are still able to access adequate financing, especially at this time when banks are not lending to small businesses. more generally, unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic burdens should be removed. smes are the backbone of small economies in europe, such as northern ireland. we should be encouraging innovative entrepreneurs rather than placing obstacles in their way such as excessive red tape. the small business act is a step forward, but it must be swiftly adopted by the council and fully implemented by member states so that it has a really positive impact.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution. the adoption of a common position on the code of conduct on arms exports to third countries is vital for the orderly implementation of the future directive on intra-community transfers of defence-related goods and for an official control of arms exports. it is true that we need a solid legal base for this code of conduct that will allow us to look again at the current arms embargo against china. there are still difficulties with beijing, but they should not be bracketed on this issue between burma and zimbabwe.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which paves the way for collective action from europe as regards obtaining accurate figures relating to vat fraud, and what it costs britain each year.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are fully supportive of improving the position of women in all aspects of society. we believe that women should have equal opportunities in many of the areas identified in the report. we also believe in women playing a full role in politics. we understand there are specific issues to be resolved in the context of the balkans and urge the national authorities to take steps to improve opportunities for women. however, we are concerned at the call for quotas, which we believe is not the way forward for women or men. also, we do not support the establishment of the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which reveals current problems relating to the situation of women in the balkans, such as the lack of up-to-date statistics about gender equality. the report highlights the fact that these countries are often source countries for human trafficking, poverty and the domestic pay gap.
in writing. − i support this report, which suggests a coordinated action plan for the whole of europe to abide by the directive on the conservation of wild birds whilst preserving fish specias as well as the interests of fishermen.
in writing. − i raised some initial reservations about the kindermann report, in particular whether or not an eu-wide plan was necessary given that cormorants do not present problems eu-wide, and the reference to listing the cormorant as a huntable species in annex ii of the birds directive. the reference to listing cormorants as a huntable species was removed in committee and the final report pushes for the development of guidelines, better data and monitoring, and more debate. on this basis, i support mr kindermann’s report.
mr president, as the world faces an economic downturn of unknown proportions, the value of the pound sterling is falling against the dollar and the euro. but the ability of the pound to adjust itself against other currencies is a benefit not enjoyed by members of the european single currency. civil unrest and rioting has broken out in greece. the greek writer, mimis androulakis, has said: ‘there is a deep dissatisfaction among young people today against the structure of europe. we cannot reduce the price of the euro to give us an advantage in exports’. membership of the eu and the euro has led to increased living costs in greece, and the younger generation fear that their future is one of poverty. the european union is an ideological project being forced upon european peoples who would rather live in democratic nation states. the price of political ideology is always human misery.
mr president, i understand that a meeting took place last week between the heads of the political groups and mr václav klaus, the president of the czech republic. it has been widely reported that, at that meeting, several of our colleagues, in particular mr daniel cohn-bendit, addressed the president of the czech republic in insolent, insulting and intolerant terms, in such a way as to bring this house into disrepute. i greatly regret the fact that our president of this parliament, who was at the meeting, failed to rein them in and bring them to order. earlier today he said that if we had been there we might have heard it differently. however, if he believes he has been misreported, he should come to this house and tell us how and why. i should like to request that the president of our parliament write to president klaus and apologise on behalf of parliament for this disgraceful behaviour.
mr president, as chairman of the european parliament observer mission to the december general election in bangladesh, i wish to express my thanks to the presidency for allowing the mission to take place. the previous chairman, who declined to go – mr robert evans from the socialist group – tried at the last minute to have the trip cancelled, claiming the list of participants was not sufficiently balanced politically or by nationality. well, there are still places if additional members wish to participate, and i would welcome that. i am delighted that the presidency had the good sense to stop this occurring. to have cancelled the mission would have sent all the wrong signals to bangladesh – and the bangladeshi community i represent in london – which is bravely seeking to strengthen its fragile secular democracy after two years of quasi-military rule. bangladesh is a vital country strategically in an unstable region, increasingly threatened by islamist terrorism, a fact that the chairman of parliament’s south asia delegation, mr evans, knows very well. bangladesh deserves our encouragement as it seeks a democratic future. if we claim to be democrats ourselves, we should do all we can to support bangladesh in this endeavour.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the council common position is, of course, not ideal but i am well aware that it has taken many years of negotiations by member states to actually get this far. most of us have also been working on this for a number of years. i have always supported the retention of the opt-out, but i wanted it tightened up so that it would be truly voluntary. i am pleased that the opt-out, now within the common position, cannot be signed at the same time as the contract and that you can opt out of the opt-out at any time. this is a far more transparent way of protecting workers’ rights than using a definition of autonomous worker that is so loose it could apply to anyone, as it does in many member states, or the use of multiple contracts, whereby an employer can employ the same employee on one, two or even three contracts, something which is used in some other member states. if there is an abuse of the opt-out by the employer, then the worker can take them to an employment tribunal. my fear is that, if we lose the opt-out, we will force more people into the grey economy and then they will not be covered by health and safety legislation, in particular the dangerous machinery directive. all legal workers are covered by these directives, whether they opt in or opt out of the working time directive. in these difficult economic times, it is very important that workers are able to earn overtime if they want to and that employers also have flexibility. i have more difficulty with regard to on-call time not being considered as working time in the common position. that is why i tabled my amendment in the employment and social affairs committee to say that on-call time should be classed as working time. unfortunately, i did not get the support from the socialist or the epp groups for my amendment. what we have now in the cercas report is that on-call time should be classed as working time, but that collective agreements or national law are allowed to rule otherwise. this, to my mind, is not a major change from what is already in the council common position, just a slight difference of emphasis. i did not retable my amendment because i knew that the socialist and epp groups would not vote for it. i suspect, however, that we might have to go to conciliation but i also suspect that the council will not move. if there is no agreement, then i hope the council will think again and that the health sector will be dealt with separately, something which i have long called for. to my mind, the revision of this directive was only really necessary to deal with the simap and jaeger judgments by the european courts, and that is all that we should have looked at.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the working time directive is a waste of time. it has been around since before i was an mep, shortly after which a minister from the uk’s department for work and pensions asked me to support hmg’s position to retain the opt-outs. naturally, i did so. i still do and i am in good company with many other countries. so let me trace some of the chequered history. on 18 december 2007, the rapporteur said that a group of countries did not want the wtd or a social europe. they wanted a free market. he called that the law of the jungle. he said that they must have been psychiatric cases. well, thanks! due to worldwide trading and freedom from eu restraints at home, the uk is strong enough to be the eu’s second-biggest contributor, at gbp 15 billion every year. i do not suppose he would turn that away! in december 2007, the portuguese presidency said they could not risk a vote in council so they let the next presidency, slovenia, sort it out. and that is after working it in with the temporary workers’ agency, to help it along. slovenia suggested a 65-hour working week and then 70 hours. however, the council’s attitude to standby time wrecked that. then the ecj drove a horse and cart through minimum-wage policies. when finland ended their presidency, their labour minister commented to the committee on employment and social affairs that ministers talked big about the wtd in brussels but when they got home it was a different story. quite! last month, on 4 november, the rapporteur again said the wtd must come first, even before economics. well, if you neglect economics, how do you raise the taxes which result from the working time directive? companies taking on extra workers to fill the gap left by short working time raises unit costs. they fail to compete and jobs are lost, which is why france abandoned its 35-hour working week. so let us follow the french. bury this unworkable time directive once again and for all.
mr president, let me start by congratulating the commission on the thoughtful way it has handled this dossier. let me also congratulate the presidency-in-office because, as it will well know, this issue has been blocked for the seven previous presidencies and it has taken great skill to get as far as it has got. the presidency has shown not only that it has moved but that it has moved the debate on. the challenge now for all of us, as members, is to see whether we are also prepared to accept that challenge and to move on in our vote on wednesday. let me say to the rapporteur that i totally agree with his opening remarks. but before you get too excited, let me remind you that in those opening remarks you stated that there were millions of workers who were worried about the working time directive. i agree with you: they are worried; they are worried that there are politicians like your good self who are preparing to tell them what is good for them, preparing to block them from choosing their own hours so they can freely work. i have lost count of the number of people who have written to me – not organisations trying to exploit the workers, but ordinary workers – asking why we are even having a discussion about this and saying that we should not stop them from choosing the hours they work. i was particularly struck by a family mentioned in a paper just three days ago: the husband had lost his job in construction and the wife had to take two part-time jobs in order to keep their family of three children and the husband in their house. she had to work 12 hours a day, seven days a week. she did not want to, but she needed to in order to keep the family together. i should like to say to the rapporteur: she was from your country, she was from spain. so what help do you offer her? what hope do you offer her? nothing! you would tell her that she cannot do that and that she has to give up one of her jobs, give up her children and give up her house. i was not elected to make laws like that; i was elected to look after the people i serve, and i will never forget that. i am due to stand down next year but, until i stand down, i will stand up for the people who elected me and will help them and not stand in their way. as the commissioner has said, the proposal on the table will give greater protection in terms of health and safety to the workers. if we support it, that is what we will get. if we do not support it, the workers will not get it and they will know who to blame.
mr president, i want to go back to the basis of this being a health and safety directive. because it is based on health and safety we do not expect opt-outs on health and safety, nor do we expect competition on labour standards within the european union. this was supposed to be about common standards because many of our workers face the same difficulties. let us look at some of the health issues that many of our member states are dealing with at the moment: cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stress. stress is the second biggest cause of time off work in the uk: 13 million working days are lost through stress, depression, anxiety, with a cost of gbp 13 billion a year – if we are looking at economics, and some of us like to look at economics in the round, mr clark. all these problems and even issues relating to obesity and binge drinking have links with a long-hours culture. it is not the only factor, but it is certainly significant. we are not just talking about occasional long hours. there is plenty of flexibility within the current directive and in the proposed changes, which will allow businesses to cope if they have a sudden rush of work, providing they then balance out the time for their employees. the issue is persistent long hours. the risk of a personal accident at work increases if you are working 12 hours or more; tired workers are dangerous workers. road safety experts believe that exhausted drivers account for more accidents than drunk drivers. if you are asking people to work long hours, be aware that this is a problem, be aware that productivity goes down, be aware that creativity goes down – which is not good for a knowledge-based economy. it certainly does not add a lot of quality to the work-life balance if people are too tired to read to their kids when they get home. moreover, the majority – 66% – of workers in the uk doing long hours are not paid for those hours. it is part of a long-hours culture, where you express your commitment to your work by being present, not necessarily by being productive. to those who argue that the opt-out reduces bureaucracy, i would say that records of hours worked should be kept anyway. if you look at the new proposals there is certainly no reduction of bureaucracy in the council’s proposal.
mr president, i am resolutely opposed to the removal of the right of the united kingdom to exercise an opt-out on the working time directive. indeed, i would refute the right of this european parliament to attempt to rob my country of that entitlement. in my book, control of working hours is a matter exclusively for national control, not for brussels diktat. if british workers are permitted by their own elected government to work more than 48 hours per week, then why should it matter to those from countries whose governments are more proscriptive? frankly, it should be none of your business. but it is a vital matter for british business, especially at a time of immense pressure arising from the economic downturn, when maximum flexibility and less regulation, not more, is key to economic recovery. maximising european production, getting our goods sold at home and abroad and making it easier for business to grow should be the concern of us all. yet here we have ideologues intent on foisting their precious social agenda on everyone, even where it is unwanted. it really is time that this house got its priorities right. rejecting this attempt to quash the british opt-out would be a good place to start.
mr president, many people are under the misapprehension that if we adopt the position proposed by alejandro cercas they will not be able to work an additional hour of overtime beyond the 48-hour average each week. that, of course, is not true. we are against the opt-out in principle, because this is health and safety law, but we have proposed the 12-month averaging of working time rather than the four-month current averaging period. this gives phenomenal flexibility for individuals and firms in the planning of working time. in fact, so much flexibility that the council itself looked to put in a fixed limit of 60 or 65 hours per week, depending on the averaging period. we did not do that. the amount of flexibility included here is far better than the use of the opt-out; it is a far better choice for firms and for individuals. i hope that message goes out very strongly from this debate.
in writing. – i will vote to end the opt out from the 48 hour week. i strongly believe long hours damages individual's health, creates the risk of more accidents in the workplace and has a negative impact on family life. in the uk the existence of the voluntary opt out has been widely abused with many employees forced to sign an opt out on day one of their employment.
rapporteur. − mr president, i suspect that this dossier will be slightly less controversial than the earlier one, and certainly there is a shorter list of speakers. but we shall see. life is full of surprises. may i start by thanking the commission and indeed the council for getting us to where we are today. unlike the previous dossier, this is a first reading, but we provisionally have informal agreement in trialogue, which will mean that there is first-reading agreement, assuming colleagues support it in the vote tomorrow. colleagues may differ as to whether the trialogue text is an improvement on the original report, but at least there is a trialogue agreement and history will be the best judge of that. i look forward to hearing any comments colleagues may have and i will sum up at the end.
mr president, first of all, many thanks to the rapporteur. though the amendments voted through committee were not what he wanted – in fact he wanted no amendments – he nevertheless defended the committee position in the negotiations which led to this first-reading agreement. many thanks also to mr cremers, our shadow rapporteur, who was the real architect of the content of the agreement. the three additions to the points agreed by the social partners in their advice note – on sanctions, on transnationality and the removal of the threshold for the special negotiating body – are important in themselves, but many of us, as has been said, still feel cheated by this recasting. we were promised a full revision of the directive almost 10 years ago. other serious deficiencies need to be addressed, and we insist that the commission should bring forward that full revision during the next mandate. another serious concern about the handling of this recasting was the crossover between the social dialogue and legislative tracks. the social partners were consulted in accordance with article 139 and eventually signalled their inability or unwillingness to negotiate a framework agreement. but just as we began our legislative work, they did signal that they would like to open negotiations. they then agreed an advice note, which has no standing at all in the treaties, but that gave our rapporteur, mr bushill-matthews, the opportunity to pretend to be conciliatory by accepting the content of the note, but nothing more. rather than acting as a spur to our work, that advice note almost became a straitjacket. the article 139 and 138 procedures need to be kept clearly separated. it is wrong if either undermines or constrains the other, and it is the job of the commission to ensure that separation. even as we speak, a similar crossover is being allowed to derail a legislative amendment we have been calling for to address the problem of needle-stick injuries. i repeat, this is dangerous and can only lead to resentment and distrust between the social partners and parliament. nevertheless, this is a step forward in terms of information and consultation rights for workers, and i welcome it.
rapporteur. − mr president, as colleagues know, i am a great believer in social dialogue and works councils, and i am pleased that there has been an agreement at first reading, so that legal certainty can prevail for all the social partners. my view is that we would have achieved a first-reading agreement even if we had not gone through this particular process. since stephen hughes has chosen to give a rather distorted version of how this was achieved, i would just like to set the record straight so that posterity will show how we got to where we have. the social partners most certainly asked all of us not to table any amendments, and the trade unions certainly confirmed to me that, as far as they were concerned, the other groups would absolutely respect that. what i did not expect, and what i did not know, was that, whilst they were urging our group not to table any amendments, they were actually urging the socialists to table amendments. we therefore had a very distorted balance in committee. had we come to parliament first, and had all colleagues had the chance to debate the matter, i still think we would have had agreement, but it would have been slightly different. having said that, let me put colleagues’ minds at rest: i do not propose to unpick the agreement that we have. it is important that there is an agreement and i am confident that it will be adopted tomorrow. however, it is a supreme irony that, on an issue concerning mutual trust between employee and employer, and harmony and cooperation between both sides of industry, one of the social partners should approach the matter in a very different way. i hope that this will be an isolated episode, because social dialogue needs to proceed with trust on both sides. however, on this occasion there has been a backward step in that regard, and one which i hope will never ever happen again.
mr president, it is clear that, following last year’s toy safety scares and recalls in the run-up to christmas, our current toy safety law drafted in 1988 cannot deal with the new risks and threats to children’s safety. twenty years on, 80% of toys in the eu and 95% in my own country are imported from third countries, predominantly china. twenty years on, we are better informed about the risks and hazards of certain chemicals and substances. twenty years on, the design of toys has changed, with toys containing powerful magnets and more electronic components, using lasers and emitting more noise. that is why the toy safety scares and recalls were a wake-up call for europe to radically review, update and strengthen the standards of our toy safety law. our new law will do more to reassure parents that the toys on our shelves are safer: not safe, but safer. importers, not just manufacturers, will be responsible for ensuring the toys they bring into europe meet our tough new standards. the fact is that manufacturers are banned from using harmful substances in toys such as lead, cmrs and fragrances which can provoke or trigger allergies in children. we have toughened up the rules on choking and suffocation risks. we have introduced clear and more effective warnings on toys. the law will only work, though, if it is enforced, and that is why it is good that we are giving more power in this law to 27 member states’ enforcement bodies to demand all the necessary information they need for any operator in the supply chain and, where necessary, to conduct raids on premises. in addition, all the eu’s enforcement bodies are legally obliged to cooperate and share information to tackle the risk of unsafe toys. my congratulations, therefore, to mrs thyssen. thanks to the good cooperation with the commission and the french presidency we have done three things. we have met our deadline in the ep resolution last year of voting in a new toy safety law before christmas 2008. i believe that if we wait any longer the legislation would not be any better. we can give parents confidence that toys on sale in the eu will be safer in future, and we are also sending out today a strong message to manufacturers, brand owners and importers that they must meet our high safety standards or there will be no place for their products on our shelves. by voting for this law, we say clearly that we are not prepared to tolerate toxic toys and dangerous toys in europe.
mr president, as coordinator for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i very much welcome this proposal and thank jacques toubon and heide rühle. these two people, particularly with heide rühle’s leadership, have represented our group interests extremely well. as many of you know, i am very passionate about the internal market. however, i am also very passionate about the fact that member states must have complete control over defence and the procurement of defence equipment, in their own national interests. the benefit of this proposal is that we have skilfully combined the two things. i thank the rapporteur, and indeed the council, for accepting amendments that reinforced the fact that member states will continue to have complete control over export licence conditions, the product concerned, how that product is used and where it goes. on the other hand, as an enthusiast of the internal market, and particularly as someone who represents an area with many small manufacturing businesses which are very active in the defence sector – and britain has the largest defence manufacturing sector in the european union – i must say that this proposal will be of major benefit to companies that are working to meet large, complex defence contracts. there will be no need for the sort of bureaucracy that the commission has, quite rightly, identified. according to its statistic, which you heard earlier, around 11 000 licences are currently issued annually, and not one has been refused since 2003. effectively, what we are doing is to simplify the process so that we can actually address proper control, instead of issuing pieces of paper that really do not make a single bit of difference to the smes concerned. so, at a time when we have also approved the small business act, we are looking to move the single market forward and to improve the industrial base. this is a very worthwhile proposal, and i am sure the house will support it tomorrow.
mr president, while many elements of an efficient single market may be welcome, defence and thus by extension defence industries are a very special case: they have a unique national strategic importance. as others have mentioned, six out of 27 eu countries account for more than 80% of defence spending and for 98% of research and development. these six countries are already developing common licensing arrangements under a voluntary framework. so i have to ask why the commission thinks it is so important to have a directive of this nature. i have to admit that is seems innocuous. as far as i can see, it does not create community competence in the defence trade. defence industrial interests that i have consulted seem relaxed about it, but ms rühle thinks it is all about sanctions and export controls, and commissioner verheugen has endorsed this view. mr toubon emphasises that exports are outside the text. i notice that the commission will be charged with reviewing implementation of the directive and will evaluate its impact on the development of a european defence equipment market and a european defence technological and industrial base. it would be extraordinary for the commission to spend so much time on such a project if it were merely intended to simplify rules and procedures. it seems curious to me that, while the uk contains the largest defence industry of all the eu countries, there is very little in this directive of any benefit to the united kingdom. indeed, there is added bureaucracy, and a new concept of certified companies will have to be introduced. i am not sure that it is sufficient justification for a directive that it can be regarded as just fairly harmless. it is certainly a step in the direction of greater eu involvement in defence. we should have reassurance that the commercial and industrial gains are of such importance that they justify such a piece of legislation and that, while barriers to intra-community trade are being lowered, there are no additional hidden obstacles to defence trade with countries that are outside the eu. i would like assurances from the council and the commission on this point.
mr president, i wish to thank mr groote, and more particularly my colleague ms weisgerber, who acted as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. one thing i have not heard mentioned this evening, and i want to place this firmly on the agenda, is the fact that european producers are dominant in the global heavy commercial vehicle market. this proposal is absolutely crucial in that it paves the way for a global standard for heavy vehicle engine emissions. that is important because, unlike cars, heavy commercial vehicles are produced in small volumes and they are very complex. producers for the global market are able to mobilise resources and harness developments to produce a global truck engine. i went to see one such company recently, and can tell you that it is planning to invest eur 1 billion in a global family of truck engines. the regulatory climate we are proposing needs to encourage this, and we also want the commission to ensure that this regulation becomes the global regulation as well, which is part of the package on the table today.
in writing. – having campaigned against these scamming organisations for years, i am delighted to support this report. this is a problem that crosses borders. each year, thousands of businesses, charities and voluntary groups across europe are tricked into signing what looks like a perfectly innocent entry for a directory. in reality they are tricked into a complex contract and then face aggressive demands for money, with no offer to cancel the contract. it is vital to close the legal loopholes that allow these fraudulent businesses to operate. in particular, i urge the commission to follow the key recommendation of this report and to put before parliament an extension of the scope of the unfair commercial practices directive to specifically prohibit advertising entries in such directories unless prospective clients are clearly informed in the advert that they are being offered a contract against payment. these recommendations are legally straightforward – austria has already ‘gold plated’ its transposition of the ucpd to include this very provision – but they would greatly improve the protection of businesses and other organisations that fall victim to these scams and send a clear signal to directory scams that their days are numbered.
mr president, since we last met, reports have been published of a meeting between the political group leaders and the president of the czech republic at which some of the group leaders expressed themselves with a discourtesy and boorishness that, i think, bring a measure of disgrace on us all. i wonder if you would care to take this opportunity to say that you, as the deputy speaker today, confirm that this house values all opinions, be they for or against the lisbon treaty, and that we respect the dignity of that office of the czech republic.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to make a very small point but an important point of principle. the committee has come up with an agreement in trialogue, and subject to the will of the house that should go through. it is not a bad agreement, but it has raised an important issue of principle which i think i should bring before the presidency regarding future dossiers. it is important that we recognise that a rapporteur when appointed is not just appointed as rapporteur for the committee but appointed for parliament as a whole. to my surprise, because the council wanted to have a trialogue and the committee rules allowed it, a trialogue was going to take place, if necessary without the rapporteur if i had not supported going ahead with it. in my view, in order for a rapporteur to be the rapporteur for parliament, parliament should be allowed to express its whole view on a report before committing to a trialogue. it is called democracy, and i recommend the idea to the bureau. (applause)
mr president, while the vice-president of the commission is in her seat could i pass on a request to her in her position as commissioner responsible for communication? a month ago parliament’s baltic europe intergroup passed a resolution on the eu-russia summit, a matter of great importance to this house. we have not yet received an acknowledgement, never mind a reply. could she perhaps raise this with colleagues in the commission? it is a matter of great importance to this house.
mr president, on occasions like this it is sometimes worth going back to first principles and asking why it is we need european regulation in this field at all. if you want to sell me something and i want to buy it from you and both customer and retailer are content with the units of measurement, surely it is not for any national government, let alone the european union, to come between them and declare their transaction illegal? that may sound like an abstruse or academic point, but in my home country there have been legal actions that have taken up an enormous amount of time and caused huge distress to people, because they have been dealing with their customers in units with which those customers are comfortable. this is another example of how power has shifted away from the nation states and towards those whom we cannot vote for in european institutions. i should just like to repeat our call for a referendum on the lisbon treaty: pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. i voted in support of his recommendations, because i have had literally hundreds of constituents from across the east midlands, from nottingham to daventry, glossop to lincoln, who have been caught out by one of the directories that he is trying to get rid of: the european city guide. the company in question essentially scams people by sending invoices and threatening legal action should they not pay them for advertisements that simply never appear in the product they pretend to sell. the european city guide has been one of the largest causes of complaints that i have received in my 10 years in this house. indeed, the first complaints came in the first batch of letters after i was elected, and the latest hit my in-box this morning. i am therefore very pleased to have been able to support something in this house for a change.
mr president, like the previous speaker, i would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his report on this subject, because it is clearly quite important. a number of us have received letters from our constituents asking about this particular scam. some very worried people, including many small businesses right across the eu, have written to me in my constituency of london telling me that they are very concerned that they have to pay this amount of money and that they do not want to face legal action. this is one of the things that the eu does well. i know i am critical about further political and economic integration, but i am also pleased to point out when the european union works well. sometimes we should focus on what we do well and try to forget some of the stuff that we do not do so well, such as the one-size-fits-all mentality. this is being called one of the first euro-scams, but it is not really the first euro-scam. if you want to look for other euro-scams, you can look at the european constitution and at the lisbon treaty. we are being told that the lisbon treaty is completely different to the european constitution, but in effect it is exactly the same thing, and to deny the people of britain the right to vote is truly a scam and a denial of democracy.
mr president, i asked for the floor to give an explanation of vote on the protection of the euro. is that due to come?
mr president, you are too kind, and i hope you do not live to regret that one day! british conservatives abstained in the votes concerning the illustrious euro. we do this because we believe it is an honourable position for those who do not wish to join the currency to leave decisions about that currency to the countries that are in it. however, over the past few months it has become increasingly obvious that some quite senior members of this house choose not to act in honourable or respectful ways. recent actions by some of our group leaders when visiting the president of the czech republic fell well short of the respect that should have been shown to the president of a democratic european country. as the european elections draw near, many members present here will moan that they feel they are not being taken seriously or given the respect they deserve by their voters. perhaps they should reflect on the point that you can only earn respect if you also choose to show it, especially to those who have a principled view that you disagree with. it seems that old revolutionaries never die: they just forget what they were fighting for!
mr president, i just want to add my voice to those who congratulate mr busuttil on his reports and deplore the antics of the various directory guides. one aspect which is often not known is the way in which these guides follow up their demands for payments in an aggressive way. victims of the european city guide and other guides have set up a website called ‘stop the european city guide’ to help spread awareness of the dangers of these scams and to help small businesses, sports clubs, charities etc. who are the victims to fight back and not to be conned by them. yet the owners of these guides have bullied them and tried to have that website pulled by the internet service provider that gives them this facility. as a result of that, i now host that website on my own website, because they apparently do not dare to attack a member of the european parliament. but i would urge those who are victims or potential victims of this scam to make use of that organisation to coordinate their activities and to work with us to plug the legislative loopholes that will finally bring an end to all of these scams.
in writing. − i abstained on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and morocco. my reason for doing so was nothing to do with the technicalities of mr saryusz-wolski’s report, but rather political. morocco’s occupation of the western sahara’s saharan arab democratic republic, its war against the resistance fighters trying to liberate their country and the human rights violations against the civilian population make it essential to make at least some minor gesture of protest. i only wish it could have been more.
in writing. − i welcome both of these reports, the first on ‘measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting’ and ‘extending the measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting’. as i have said on a number of previous occasions, the decision to issue eur 500 and eur 200 notes, which are five times larger than and twice as large as the largest dollar or yen note in general circulation, makes the euro potentially the currency of choice both for money-laundering and counterfeiting. here at least we are taking action to deal with the latter, even if further steps are required to deal with the former.
in writing. − ukip voted in favour of this report because eur 4.9 billion of unspent appropriations will be returned to the national governments.
in writing. − media literacy is increasingly important in our digital era. whilst our cultures are increasingly subjected to globalisation, the prets report rightly recognises it is local entities which have a key role in media literacy. local facilities have a major contribution to make and i welcome this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in these difficult times, it is vital that we, as socialists, strive to protect workers. consultation and information are two fundamental rights for workers, and european works councils are a great european initiative. however, jobs in my region as well as in the rest of europe are being lost because councils do not work closely together across borders. i therefore welcome proposals to ensure the effectiveness of works councils and the extension of their application. this is an issue that affects many of my constituents. i hope that our vote will mean that more firms and workers in the west midlands will benefit from these rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the bushill-matthews report. the parliament has voted in favour of effective and dissuasive sanctions against employers for non-compliance with the rules and accordingly will improve the situation of workers across the eu.
in writing. − in view of the looming global economic crisis, this directive will give a bigger say to the workers in the future of their workplace, providing the revision to the european works council which is necessary. i welcome the advice of the european social partners which is now included in the directive, i also welcome the updating of the directive in order to take into account recent court cases which have given greater legal clarity to the two sides of industry.
in writing. − i support any work which strengthens the work of the european works councils.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the groote report and welcome europe-wide action to limit emissions from heavy duty vehicles.
in writing. − i support this report which will provide harmonized technical rules for trucks, lorries and buses, which they would have to comply with in order to get the necessary type approval. the report will see a reduction of the particle mass by 66% and nox emissions by 80%. i support this report because of the balance it strikes between co2 emissions and associated emission reductions. the proposal includes a number of measures relating to access to repair information for new cars, so as to ensure effective competition in the repair market, so that small businesses will not suffer as a result of the report.
in writing. − i and my british conservative colleagues are supportive of improvements regarding the conditions of employment for accredited parliamentary assistants working within the premises of the european parliament in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg and, in principle, can see the case for a statute for assistants. however, we are concerned that the statute remains vague in a number of important respects and would have wished there to be greater clarity on a number of the provisions. for example, on the recruitment of non-eu citizens, the second language requirement and the suggested pay grades. in view of these concerns, we have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on petitions i welcome the report by my colleague simon busuttil on misleading directory companies. the companies are nasty parasites on small- and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the union. they write deeply ambiguous letters to smes inviting them to complete or update their business name and contact details, giving them the false impression that they will be listed in a business directory free of charge. as such, these are often dealt with by junior members of staff. signatories and companies consequently discover they have unintentionally signed up to a contract, normally binding for a minimum period of three years, at an annual cost of eur 1 000 plus. the 400 petitions received from smes detail the harassment, stress, embarrassment, frustration and financial loss suffered because of the actions of these conmen and women. this report rightly applauds the action by the austrian government to outlaw these practices. what this report demands is that the commission and the other 26 member states follow austria’s example and root out the activities of these fraudsters.
in writing. − businesses across europe have fallen victim to scams such as the european city guides. legal measures to prevent these scams are essential and the busuttil report is accordingly to be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in response to the many constituency concerns that have been raised with me over misleading companies. many enterprises, mostly small businesses in scotland, have suffered financially, and have been harassed and threatened with legal action. this report will raise awareness on the issue so that fewer businesses fall victim to scams, urging eu countries to tighten national laws and ensure that existing eu law on misleading advertising and unfair commercial practices is adequately enforced. i support this report because it urges the commission to step up its monitoring of the implementation of eu law and improve existing eu law where it is established that it is not adequate in order to stop these scams once and for all.
in writing. − i am pleased that today the european parliament has acted to combat the fraud which is the european city guide. many of my scottish constituents were the victims of this scam and found themselves facing bills which they had not signed up for. these misleading sales techniques which involve ordinary people are wrong and need to be stopped. the committee on petitions should be congratulated for putting this on today’s agenda.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to stop misleading advertising by business directory companies such as the european city guide. over the last few years i have been contacted by a wide range of small businesses across the east midlands, from nottingham to northampton. these businesses have been taken in by what is clearly a scam and i strongly support the creation of a european blacklist and action to put an end to misleading advertising.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the qualities of this french presidency have been almost fairytale: a bold prince riding out on the mythical white stallion of eu military deterrence to save our lady of georgia, the cinderella from london finally admitted to the ball and a fair princess in berlin learning, in response to a note from the kanzleramt to the élysée, that, if she wants to be with prince charming, she must be ready to kiss a frog. (laughter)president-in-office, i imagine you would not have chosen the challenges which confronted your presidency, but you have tackled them with energy, with enthusiasm and with creativity, and you have shown the power of european solidarity. we congratulate you on the success of last week’s council. your timetable for economic recovery will help restore confidence in the markets. your parrying of protectionism is admirable. your concessions on state aid and public procurement are reasonable, alongside your commitment to accompany them with the structural reforms laid down in the lisbon strategy. the summit’s conclusions allow scope to reduce vat. liberal democrats urge ecofin to cut vat now on energy-saving and renewable energy equipment, in order to help industry and the environment. we also welcome the renewed commitment to sustainable public finances and a rapid return to medium-term budgetary targets. our response to the recession must be based on solidarity and sound economics. you appear to have found a practical answer to ireland’s worries about the new treaty. it may not be elegant, but it is worthy of henry iv of france: si paris valait une messe, dublin vaut un commissaire. on security and defence policy, real progress has been made: the creation of a single planning structure for esdp missions, a structured form of cooperation with nato and a declaration of our aims and objectives in the struggle for security. it is, however, on climate change that you may be more harshly judged. a blizzard of corporate concessions has been written into the council conclusions; new member states will be bought off with a solidarity slush fund; cap-and-trade emissions permits will be given away when they should have been auctioned, and major players like electricity companies will get derogations that amount to super-subsidies. all of this pushes down the cost of carbon, cuts the cash raised and makes the emissions targets harder to hit. what is more, the emissions trading system will not even come into effect until 2013. nonetheless, my group recognises your achievement in reaching that deal. we welcome the agreements on energy saving, on earmarking half the revenues from emissions to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and on carbon capture and storage. we will support it in tomorrow’s vote. one can always wish for more from any presidency. on cap reform, we have seen movement. we wanted to see opening-up. on immigration, the blue card comes wrapped in red tape and, on trade, the cancellation of this week’s doha talks leaves little hope for progress. but this presidency has been a success for europe, and you, president-in-office, deserve the credit. after these six months you probably also deserve a break. you do not need to do everything. leave the finance ministers to jean-claude juncker. leave the euro to jean-claude trichet. end a fairytale presidency with a fairytale ending. follow the advice of your favourite singer: c’est le temps du départ, retournez à d’autres étoiles et laissez-nous la fin de l’histoire. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mr sarkozy has brought energy and dynamism to his presidency, but made clear at all stages that he wants more power for the union and that he wants the lisbon treaty. now, with the czech presidency about to take over, i think we have seen the true face of this modern-day european union with the appalling attack on president klaus. i am going to ask you, president sarkozy: what kind of european union do you want? because what we have here is a union that treats democracy with contempt. brian crowley said to president klaus that the irish wish for the lisbon treaty. well, i am sorry, old son, but they said ‘no’! please accept the result! in previous times, martin schulz has stood up and said that a ‘no’ vote will lead to fascism and that we must not bow to populism. so this is a union that despises democracy, and it is a union that cannot cope with any alternative point of view. ‘i do not care about your opinions,’ is what danny cohn-bendit said to president klaus. in previous times mr cohn-bendit has said in this chamber that opponents of this treaty are mentally ill. this is a very dangerous step for this union to be taking. it is a union that behaves like a thug and a bully, and when mr cohn-bendit put the european flag on president klaus’s desk and told him to fly it from the castle, he could just as well have been a german official from 70 years ago or a soviet official from 20 years ago. danny the libertarian, who is now the authoritarian, the man who has turned into everything he said he was opposed to 40 years ago – and this is the face, president sarkozy, of this european union. and all of it egged on by president pöttering, who in previous times has fined members of this house for insulting other heads of state. mr sarkozy, is this the kind of union that you want, or will you join me in condemning the absolutely appalling treatment of president klaus in prague last week? (applause)
mr president, i want to begin by acknowledging the role that president sarkozy has played during his time as president of the council. his time at the helm has undoubtedly been high profile and focused, and we particularly recall his contribution to the peace process in georgia in the aftermath of the invasion by russian forces. we also recall his determination to secure a deal on the vital climate change and energy package, which is something that british conservatives fully support, even though i regret we cannot offer the same support to the lisbon treaty. we believe that the eu should continue to take a lead in relation to climate matters. however, the financial and economic crisis has inevitably dominated the last six months. despite the claims made by the british prime minister that his response to the crisis is widely shared, let us not forget the remarks made by the german finance minister last week, who said of the british government that the ‘same people who would never touch deficit spending’ in the past are now ‘tossing around billions’ and ‘the switch from supply-side politics all the way to crass keynesianism is breathtaking’. also, referring to the uk vat rate, he said that ‘all this will do is raise britain’s debt to a level that will take a whole generation to work off’. i regret that, because he was absolutely right: the british economy is heading for probably the longest and deepest recession of all the major eu economies, and the british prime minister has lost any claim to fiscal prudence and sound economic management. president sarkozy, here was a situation where the british prime minister should have followed the lead of other european leaders, and indeed followed the discipline that other countries have shown in economic management. may i again congratulate you on your six months in office. i hope that the next six months will be good for the people of europe.
mr president, the french presidency has indeed faced many challenges, though it is debatable whether the recent council adequately addressed the challenge of combating climate change. on the economy, i note that mr sarkozy acknowledged that ireland was the first to support its banks, and now the whole of the european union is following, which is more accurate, i think, than gordon brown’s recent slip-of-the-tongue statement that he had himself saved the world single-handedly. i should like to thank the irish government for once again demonstrating how influential small member states can be in the european union. however, i thank the irish people too for ‘interrupting’, as president sarkozy put it, the lisbon ratification process. the assurances given to ireland will help my country, scotland, as well, by underlining that there is fiscal independence in europe and that we, as an independent member state, could nominate a commissioner. mr sarkozy said that we cannot have a strong europe if europe is not united. please let us remember that ‘unity in diversity’ is not just a slogan but something we must aspire to: we must not lose sight of that which makes us proud to be scottish, welsh, irish, french, czech, or whatever, as well as citizens – not subjects – of the european union.
a uachtaráin, ba chóir d’éirinn a bheith san aontas eorpach. tá comhoibriú lenár gcomhpháirtithe eorpacha thar a bheith luachmhar. ach níl an dóigh ar déileáladh leis an vóta ‘níl’ in éirinn ag spreagadh dea-thoil. thiocfadh leis fiú cur leis an seasamh in aghaidh an ae, agus ní hamháin in éirinn. dhiúltaigh an chomhairle athrú ar bith a dhéanamh ar chonradh liospóin féin. ina áit sin táthar ag iarraidh focail spreagthacha a thabhairt do dhaoine in éirinn agus táthar ag insint dóibh gur chóir dóibh athchomhairle a dhéanamh. ní dheachaigh an chomhairle i ngleic le fíor-imnithe mhuintir na héireann maidir le míleatú an ae, cearta lucht oibre agus seirbhísí poiblí. agus tá an bhearna idir cheannairí an aontais agus na saoránaigh ag éirí níos doimhne mar gheall ar an fhreagairt don vótaí ‘níl’ in éirinn agus in áiteanna eile. ní thugann conclúidí na comhairle ráthaíochtaí inchreidte sna háiteanna ina bhfuil gá leo. teipeann orthu cúiseanna dearfacha a thabhairt lenar féidir vótáil i bhfabhar chonradh liospóin. ina áit sin ligeann siad don eagla a bheith ann. tá roinnt saincheisteanna á gcur trína chéile. beidh an eagla agus an mhífhaisnéis i mbarr réime in athdhéanamh an reifrinn. ó thaobh conclúidí na comhairle maidir leis an bpacáiste um fhuinneamh agus athrú aeráide, tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go bhfuil reachtaíocht le bheith ann le spriocanna atá ina gceangal dlí. tá cuid den phacáiste míshásúil, áfach, agus níl sé chomh láidir agus is cóir dó a bheith.
mr president, the package on the treaty should be sufficient to persuade the irish to change their minds. i was far less clear that the quality of the decisions on economic policy were as sound. what conclusions were reached on the concept of ‘crass keynesianism’ peddled by mr steinbrück, a party colleague of martin schulz? i suspect that mr sarkozy would describe himself, following this experience of the financial crisis, as a keynesian. in the absence of a prudent stimulus to productive employment from germany, i suspect that there cannot be a sure recovery from the economic recession.
mr president, with regard to the irish agreement at the european council, i must say that this is a huge success for irish diplomacy. i was, frankly, surprised that the other member states conceded so quickly on the size of the commission, reverting to one commissioner per country. i know that many member states had reservations about that. but the fact that they did so shows the willingness of other member states to move to meet the concerns that were expressed in the irish ‘no’ campaign and the ‘no’ vote. this is not an attempt to ignore the irish ‘no’ vote. it is an attempt to respond to the ‘no’ vote, to move to meet halfway and to try and find a solution that is acceptable to all 27 countries. in this union, when there is a divergence like that, we try to bridge the gap. the other member states have shown their willingness to move to meet irish concerns. i very much hope that will be sufficient to enable a positive result in a new referendum to be held next year, when it is up to the irish people to make their choice.
mr president, rather like mr schulz, i was concerned at the beginning of this presidency at the slowness to react to the looming financial crisis. i think europe as a whole was guilty of complacency in thinking that this was not our problem, but an american problem. however, since that financial tsunami has hit us, i welcome the response we have had; i welcome the leadership we have had from my own prime minister, gordon brown, and from president sarkozy. what we have learned is that europe stands or falls together. if we act individually we are lost, and events have proved that. we are in a situation we have never been in before, and that is why i welcome the dynamic leadership we have had, in contrast with mr kirkhope’s party, whose members, like rabbits paralysed in the headlights, think that doing nothing is the only solution to our great crisis. i note that president sarkozy talked about ‘our friends, the americans’. the west as a whole faces a huge crisis. we can only come out of it if we make working together a priority. so we must emphasise the importance of europe’s working with the new administration in january, so that we have a united front to the great challenges such as climate change and the financial crisis.
madam president, concerning personal statements, in the debate we had this morning with mr sarkozy, i made a number of comments about the european union’s attitude towards democracy. in particular, i talked about the leader of the socialist group, martin schulz, having made some disparaging and derogatory comments in the debate in june of this year. he was allowed by the president, mr pöttering, to get up and to say that my comments had been untrue and that he had never in any way suggested that the ‘no’ side could be linked in the future with fascism. i would like, please, to set the record straight. on 18 june, in this place, when talking about the ‘no’ vote in ireland, this is exactly what martin schulz said. he said, ‘the passion has migrated to the other side, the side which speaks ill of europe, on the right wing of the political spectrum. it lies with those who speak ill of europe, and who do so simply because they are afraid. in europe, however, this mixture of social decline and fear has always opened the door to fascism.’ mr schulz may not like what i have to say. he may profoundly disagree with what i say. however, i would say to you, mr schulz, when i get up in this place, i always research very thoroughly what i say. i never stand up here and tell lies. what i said, i believed to be entirely true. i am not asking for an apology or anything of that kind. i do this to put the matter straight, and i regret that our president, mr pöttering, chose to use rule 145 to allow martin schulz to take the floor this morning but not to allow me to take the floor this morning, which in fact was the very point of the speech i made this morning. it is not a level playing field in the european union. it is as though you are the good guys if you are pro-treaty and you are the bad guys if you are opposed to the treaty. that, to me, is not very democratic.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am disappointed that there has been a loosening of emission-reduction requirements in part of the climate package. the eu needs to set its course firmly towards a low-carbon future; otherwise it will be overtaken by other countries that are now keen to make up for lost time. i think we may come to regret this missed opportunity to get our own house in order ahead of the rest of the world. but on the renewable energy directive, parliament has succeeded in persuading member states to embrace the need for radical change in the way we source our energy. i want to thank claude turmes: his determination made this successful outcome possible. for the renewable energy industry, the directive offers legal certainty and the sweeping away of barriers to progress such as connection to the grid. on renewables in transport, industry has been set stringent criteria for biofuels, which i welcome. i am relieved that the final text protects land with high biodiversity and high carbon stock and that the requirement on greenhouse gas savings has been increased from the commission’s original proposal of 35% up to 60% for new installations from 2017. crucially, the effects of indirect land-use change will now be factored into the calculation on greenhouse gas savings, and biofuels with no risk of side effects will receive a bonus. food price effects will be monitored and tackled through regular reporting and the 2014 review. if parliament had had its way, certain actions would have been stronger and more immediate. nevertheless, this is a final text which deserves the support of this house.
mr president, in these days when we are all concerned about energy security it is clearly right that we should pursue renewable energy, but that renewable energy must be both environmentally and economically sustainable. in this context, i am very worried about the rapid dash for wind energy, especially in my own country, where we have established over-optimistic and wholly unachievable targets for wind. it is not clear that wind meets those criteria, it is very expensive and it is already forcing up the costs of electricity for hard-pressed families and for businesses. there is a great deal of embedded energy in the fabrication, construction, transportation and erection of wind turbines. there are substantial amounts of co2 which are emitted in the excavation of foundations, infrastructure, roads and cablings. but, mr president, my main concern today is not those questions, but the impact on local communities: wind farm applications are breaking out like a rash in my region, leicestershire and northamptonshire; the wind farms bring visual intrusion, they lower property values, they are blighting lives and homes and communities. we are increasingly concerned about the health effects of low-frequency sound, especially at night, which is disturbing the sleep patterns of local residents. the time has come for us to protect the people we represent. i believe that we should have a statutory minimum distance from new wind turbines to established dwellings of at least three kilometres.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the work done by mrs doyle and all the members on this directive, which was objectively difficult, is absolutely crucial and essential. yes, mrs doyle, i believe we have respected the trust pact. there were two really important issues. the first question was: are we still in codecision because of the timetable? i say we are in a real codecision. the time was short for everyone because of international events, which are not the work of anyone, not parliament, not the council, not the commission. because of copenhagen and the european democratic pace. to tell you the truth, i'm not sure if we'd had a lot more time, we would have done much better. there's a time when speed allows for greater maneuverability. this is a well-known truth among skiers and i think that you, madam rapporteur, have found ways of bringing the power of parliament into the trilogues, particularly on the essential question of the second stage. the rest is in the text. the real question is 20 to 30 per cent and comitology or codecision, at a time when europe will have to be manoeuvrable in the negotiations. and it will probably be necessary to invent a process of trilogue that will move around copenhagen a little informally, a little before, a little after, so that copenhagen is a real international success and there are real conditions for exchange. and in any case, as you know, we have abandoned the comitology for codecision on this point, which i believe is essential for this particular report as well as for this directive. one last word. you wanted, we wanted, that the allocation of the auctions should have a more assertive, more important substance in the framework of the trilogues, and for this, basically, we had clear support from the commission. we have, by the way, increased the capacity declared by the member states for the use of these auctions from 20 to 50%. that is, in a nutshell, what i wanted to say. i believe that the timetable has in no way and in no way affected the reality of codecision, which is as indispensable as unanimity, which was not obligatory, was indispensable for the council of heads of state and government.
member of the commission. - the mr president, the european council's results on the proposal to revise the european union's emissions trading system are very satisfactory, especially considering how complex and technical the system is. when the commission put forward its proposal a year ago, it aimed to improve and extend the emissions trading system so that it could make a significant contribution to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in the european union and to make it the core, the model for other greenhouse gas trading systems around the world. the compromise agreement retains all relevant elements of the proposal and in particular the overall carbon dioxide emission ceiling with the linear reduction in order to achieve the overall 20% reduction target. it also maintains the gradual adoption of full tendering. i should note that in the first and second marketing years the overall auction rate was around 5%. now in the third period from 2013 at least 50% of the allowances will be auctioned and gradually this will increase year by year. the compromise proposal also has the effect of harmonizing the rules of distribution so that there is equal opportunity for all, and this is also a very important achievement. the compromise proposal fully preserves the environmental integrity and targeting of the proposal, and also addresses the concerns and concerns of industry by ensuring certainty on a long-term basis and by incorporating specific provisions for industries at risk of relocation due to the absence of an international agreement to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. the european union's trading system is already the largest in the world and of course with the problems we have identified and are correcting with this proposal it will become even more efficient and capable of linking up with the various other systems that are being set up internationally. i would like to thank the french presidency again for its great efforts, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs doyle, for her very important contribution to the drafting of the compromise agreement, and i would of course invite you all to vote in favour of the proposal.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we have rightly been having bouquets sent to the french presidency for its work here. it is jean-louis le roi-soleil down there, and i hope that in accepting that title he will share a little bit of it with our rapporteur on this dossier, avril doyle. of all the dossiers in the climate package – and i support them all – that is the one that has been the most difficult to tackle. i think she has had the toughest job. in poznań last week it was the one that was in question but we achieved it; the results have come by trust and by hard work. some in my group think that here and in other parts of the package we may be going too far, too fast and at too great a cost. others, including my own party, think we could perhaps have gone further in many respects. we and our british confederation of british industry wanted a bolder policy on auctioning. we wanted earmarking of revenues to eco-innovation and new technology. we wanted to support low-income countries. we wanted revenues for forest protection and enhancement and we wanted clear performance standards for new power stations so that no coal-fired power stations could be opened without a co2 capture technology in place. but we have achieved funding for demonstration projects for ccs. we have achieved rigorous criteria for biofuels. we have protected small firms, we have exempted hospitals and we have given industry that certainty that they asked for as they set out to meet the challenges that we have set them. copenhagen is 12 months away. we have made a start. copenhagen must take it on from there.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to start with ‘thank you’. i would like to thank commissioner dimas, his team and jos delbeke. they did a good job; they gave us a good proposal in the first place. i thank avril doyle, who is tough, you know, and has a lot of tenacity and determination. it has not been easy, as john bowis has just said. i thank all the shadows, who worked with us, virpi köykkä from the secretariat of the committee, ulrike schöner from the socialist group and elizabeth colebourn, my assistant. these people have done inhuman amounts of work in the last few weeks to make tomorrow’s vote possible – and they are nearly all women! we had a few men who helped us along the way. we had a good team and worked well together. i thank the minister, his team and léglise costa because we have got a good package tomorrow. what have we achieved? well, john bowis said ‘some of it’. but it is an achievement that we are here today and are going to vote tomorrow. that has not been easy, as there are some in this house who did not want us to vote tomorrow – who did not want us to vote at all before the elections. we are going to vote on a package that is balanced, which balances the environment with jobs. yes, we have made some concessions on auctioning, but the auctioning is the ‘how’ – it is not the ‘whether’ – we tackle climate change. we have the cap and the downward trajectory and those are the key things that guarantee that we will deliver the 20/20/20 target. i do not want anybody to leave this parliament when they go home on thursday saying that we have let industry off the hook – that is not the case. these are tough targets for industry and we are, as the commission has said, the first group of countries in the world to have such a comprehensive emissions trading scheme. it will have the support of my political group, and i hope it will have the support of the whole house tomorrow. at the beginning of this process i said that europe had talked the talk under the german presidency, and now we had to walk the walk by taking these tough decisions on this legislation and the rest of the package. tomorrow i hope we will make that decision, we will start the walk towards copenhagen and along the way we will get some other people to join us and, at the end of the day, deliver a climate change package that is worthy of the effort that has been put into this by everybody in this house.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, my thanks to mrs doyle for all her hard work. this morning president sarkozy said that compromise is the spirit of europe. well, unfortunately i do not think that sentiment will be much of a consolation in just a few decades from now, when people look back at 2008 and ask themselves what on earth were politicians thinking about. knowing what they knew then, why on earth did they not do more to save all of us from the unbearable impacts of a warming planet? why did they not act with more urgency and determination? i think that is a question we should be asking ourselves, because the science is very clear: that 20% emission reductions by 2020 is simply no way near ambitious enough to give us any serious likelihood of avoiding a 2°c temperature increase. and scandalously looking at the package as a whole, well over half of that utterly inadequate emissions reduction could in any case be outsourced to developing countries. that is not only scientifically unsound, it is also ethically wrong. meanwhile the emissions trading system is itself being turned into a windfall profit machine for europe’s most polluting industries. instead of learning from the first phases of the ets, we appear to be creating laws that would subsidise these industries and delay still further our transition to a more sustainable economy. so i am afraid i cannot share mr sarkozy’s celebration of compromise, not when that compromise is made up of countless corporate concessions which put the profits of industry literally before the liveability of this planet. not when that compromise means that sectors representing fully 96% of the non-power emissions are to be given 100% free allocation of permits. not when that means the carbon price will be driven so low that there will be nothing like the necessary stimulus for investment in green energy alternatives. this is not a day for celebration: it is a day to reflect on how much more is needed to generate the political will to stand a chance of avoiding the worst of climate chaos. and a day to reflect that yet another opportunity for real change has sadly been lost.
madam president, thanks and congratulations to mrs doyle, but i think that tomorrow will be a sad day for democracy in the european parliament. we are invited to endorse a deal agreed with the council behind closed doors. we have knowingly thrown overboard our chance to dig away at the council position through the full codecision process. i see no point in parliament pressing for more, new powers, if we are not prepared to exercise those we have. because we have been hurried along in accordance with a false timetable we have omitted our responsibility to ensure that there is a complete assessment of the impact of the climate change package by impartial authorities. for example, i was the rapporteur recently on the waste framework directive. it promotes the idea of energy-efficient combined heat and power stations, but such plants may be penalised under the revised ets. was there any discussion on this important point? what happened to it? broadly speaking we have accepted what has been said by those states who are most alarmed by the package. we have omitted to put in place a robust impact assessment apparatus for the eu and now we pay the price. nor do we have the slightest idea whether the targets set in the package are really going to be met. are we convinced that there will be strong enough oversight of implementation, despite what mr dimas has said, and rapid action against states that do not put into operation even this weakened package? how will we control all those effort-sharing projects in developing countries? if climate change is so important, we need a much more active approach to implementation than has been the case on environmental policies anywhere so far, and we have heard nothing about that. if anything good comes out of this, it must be a new resolve to secure watertight guarantees on implementation and a standardised system of impartial impact assessment such as they have in the us congress. someone said that this rushed first-reading agreement was not to be seen as a precedent for parliament’s willingness to give in to the council and throw away its powers, the powers it has under codecision. but it will mr borloo, will it not? and future parliaments will live to regret it.
madam president, one of the achievements of these negotiations has been to establish a funding mechanism for carbon catchment storage demonstration projects and i shall refer to this later. but while i have been ccs negotiator, rapporteur, it has been through revision of the ets directive that we have achieved success. i have been at best a back-seat driver. sometimes you need luck and i think i have been lucky in having linda mcavan, lena ek and others – shadow rapporteurs – on the ets directive. i think i have been lucky in having a presidency that was open to explore new ideas and i have been particularly lucky in being able to work with avril doyle, the rapporteur for this legislation, who has achieved an enormous amount. i would just point out one thing, mr president, which is that there have not been many rapporteurs in the history of this parliament who have tabled an initial proposal that would at best have raised eur 1.5 billion worth of funding and ended up with a package worth five or six times that much.
i am very sorry, because of time constraints i cannot take any more. so we now go back to the rapporteur, the much-praised mrs doyle.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 17 december 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by satu hassi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the effort of member states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to meet the community’s greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments up to 2020 (com(2008)0017 - c6-0041/2008 - 2008/0014(cod)) (a6-0411/2008).
mr president, european citizens are gravely concerned about the effects of climate change and support a low-carbon, clean energy provision for our future. it is therefore right that we send a strong signal to the council of our common commitments. however, the people we represent are also gravely concerned about the global financial crisis. for them, job security has certainly become a more pressing issue than global warming and renewable energy, at least for now. we cannot allow the state of europe’s economies, nevertheless, to push climate change off the agenda. equally, we cannot further undermine our key industries and labour markets by taking hasty actions. on the whole, i believe that this package – the ‘triple 20’ climate change package – reflects this dilemma and it reduces the risk that european industries will have to relocate abroad to less restrictive jurisdictions. the city of london, which i represent, is also very keen to trade carbon permits under the ets. taking a common approach to addressing climate change is also at the heart of my party’s approach to the european union under david cameron, who is our party leader, and hopefully the next prime minister of britain.
rapporteur. − mr president, the potential for carbon capture and storage technology to achieve vast reductions and abatement in co2 emissions into the atmosphere is something we simply must grasp. i have to say that the idea of storing co2 underground forever is not my ideal option. i would like us to move straight to a different age, one where our power comes from renewable, clean and green forms of energy. but we cannot ignore the reality of coal. china is getting 80% of its electricity from coal. it is soaring ahead with renewable energy programmes and, yet, it is also expanding its coal-fired power stations week in, week out. in my own country there is a big argument about building one new coal-fired power station at kingsnorth. the co2 emissions from that one power station will be the equivalent of those saved by every single wind-farm we currently have in the country. people will say: why bother with all these renewables, why bother with all these other things if you are still building coal-fired power stations in this way? we have to develop ccs. the international energy agency says that by 2050 it could be responsible for abating up to 50% of the emissions that would otherwise take place on a business-as-usual scenario. now our number one concern in dealing with this legislation has been to deal with the issue of safety. some of those concerns may be easy to exaggerate. after all, co2 is natural: we breathe it in, we breathe it out. we pump an explosive gas like methane into our own homes, where we set light to it. so, by comparison, co2 needs to be put into perspective. but we have tried to address the issue of leakage in this report, making clear that it is absolutely unacceptable if there was a risk to human health. we have tried to improve the regulation, introducing clarifications to avoid contradictions and to speed up the application process, while emphasising that member states are ultimately in charge of their own destiny. they decide whether or not co2 will be stored on their territory. the commission’s initial proposals were good. i hope that council, commission and parliament have collectively improved upon them. but there is not much point in storing co2 – or making provisions for the storage of co2 – if we are not capturing it in the first place. so we took on the challenge, over the past few months, of introducing a financial mechanism to drive forward construction of the demonstration projects promised by heads of government last year. i have to say that at times it has felt like an uphill struggle. people were dubious about the proposal to use allowances from the new entrant reserve of the emissions trading scheme. but we got there in the end, with the council deciding last week to allocate 300 million allowances. how much that will raise depends on the carbon price. but i am told it could be anything from eur 6 billion to eur 9 billion of support for capital investment. that is a major step forward – one of the real achievements of these negotiations. i think all my colleagues in this chamber should be pleased that the proposal came initially from parliament. it was on the council’s agenda because we placed it there. the presidency took it and, if not with enthusiasm, it at least accepted that it offered a solution to a very real problem. let us now go forward. let us see these demonstration projects put out to tender as soon as possible. let us see construction begin. let us test this technology and let us pray that it works.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – is am cinniúnach é seo sa troid in éadan an athraithe aeráide. tá an chreatlach dhlíthiúil ann anois do thíortha chun an t-aistriú a dhéanamh ón ngeilleagar salach agus aghaidh a thabhairt ar thodhchaí níos glaine. cibé lochtanna atá ar ghnéithe ar leith den phacáiste, is é seo seal an ae chun dul i mbun gnímh. ní féidir smaoineamh ar gabháil agus stóráil charbóin mar ‘philéar draíochta’ chun spriocanna aeráide a chomhlíonadh. ba chóir tús áite a thabhairt i gcónaí d’ fhuinneamh inathnuaite. níl an teicníc theicneolaíoch go hiomlán cruthaithe go fóill ach tá gach seans ann go mbeidh orainn a bheith ag brath uirthi mar chuid dár ngníomh comhordaithe in aghaidh astúcháin charbóin. fáiltím roimh thuarascáil chris davies agus gabhaim buíochas leis as ucht a chuid oibre. leagann seo rialacha síos atá níos daingne agus níos soiléire ar dhóigheanna éagsúla ná na cinn a bhí molta ag an choimisiún, cé nach bhfuaireamar gach rud a raibh gá againn leo. tá mé sásta comhshíniú ar son gui/ngl agus iarraim ar mo chomhghleacaithe vótáil ar a son.
mr president, carbon capture and storage has become a central feature of this debate on fighting climate change and i am certainly also in favour of exploring and developing this technology. if it is successful it will one day have a significant role to play, and we do need a strong legal framework to make sure it is properly regulated. but ccs cannot be used as an excuse to carry on building more dirty coal plants, which will produce more co2. the only way to move forward with ccs research without allowing this to happen is by adopting a clear emissions performance standard and that is why the verts/ale group has tabled an amendment to control the level of emissions from new fossil-fuel power stations. in other words, only the most efficient power stations could be built, whatever the fuel, and it was the inclusion of this clause which was the essential motive for our group voting for this in the committee. we are disappointed that many other good points included by the committee have been lost during negotiations, including stronger liability and monitoring, transport and the exclusion of enhanced oil recovery. there has been tremendous pressure to come to a conclusion on this, but it has to be the right conclusion, and for us that certainly means including an emissions performance standard.
rapporteur. − mr president, when i became parliament’s rapporteur i resolved to go beyond my brief and try and accelerate the development of carbon capture and storage technology. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety adopted a twin-track approach: one was to put in place a financial mechanism to support the construction of demonstration projects, and the second was to introduce a regulatory means of preventing the construction of the dirtiest power plants by means of an emissions performance standard. both proposals were initially opposed by the commission and the council. one good argument against the introduction of emissions performance standards at this time is that ccs technology first needs to be tested and proven. i think parliament can be pleased that it has at least achieved one great step forward in putting in place a financial mechanism which will bring forward the demonstration projects. i remain convinced that we will eventually need an emissions performance standard. but i thank madame grossetête and the shadow rapporteurs for the help they have given me in achieving the progress we have made. to the critics of carbon capture and storage technology, i say this: just get real! just look at the world as it is, the enormous quantities of coal being used and the fact that the international energy agency is predicting a 70% increase in coal use over the next 20 years. we need to develop this technology. i do not want it – it is not my ideal – but we need to develop something that can deal with emissions on this massive scale. ccs technology may provide us with a huge weapon to help us win the fight against global warming. we need to take it forward. we cannot afford for one second to ignore its potential.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs corbey, and the french presidency for their tremendous efforts in securing agreement on this ground-breaking dossier as part of the fight against climate change. i would also like to pay tribute to joseph daul, whom i am replacing, for his hard work in drafting the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on this corbey report on fuel quality. ultimately, the agreement reached on this report, and the closely linked turmes report on renewable energy, are ones which we in the agricultural world can be very satisfied with. i believe that there is a future for the sustainable biofuel industry and that these two directives provide the necessary legal framework for the industry to develop to allow in the future a transition to more second-generation biofuels. i welcome the fact that we are now committed to a target of a 20% share of renewable energy in the eu overall energy mix. i very much welcome this report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me begin by paying a genuine heartfelt tribute to guido sacconi’s work on this. it has been a pleasure to work with him. one of these days i may even learn italian and be able to communicate with him properly, though he is leaving parliament next year. he has done a fantastic job on this regulation. europe’s car industry is particularly significant. it is very important in many ways: millions of people in europe depend for their jobs and their livelihood on this very important and in some respects cutting-edge industry. it certainly accounts for a major proportion of our manufacturing export outlet. through various measures we have succeeded in exporting much of the rest of our manufacturing capacity outside europe. we have to be very careful that we do not do the same with the car industry. i have to say that i thought the original commission proposal was too draconian and placed too many burdens on the car industry, and large parts of it were probably unachievable without major change within industry. however, we have now arrived at a very good and acceptable compromise. it was important that instead of always wielding the big stick we left some space for carrots. i think we have done that now: we have put in incentives for the manufacturers to develop cleaner and greener technology rather than threatening them all the time with swingeing penalties. we must never forget the important role that the member states will need to play in this, in terms of adjusting their tax systems to make the incentives for buying cleaner and greener cars much more attractive. it is a good proposal now, and my group will support it in the vote tomorrow. i thank guido sacconi once again for his work. i think that, after much negotiation, much argument and much debate, we have reached an acceptable compromise, and i pay tribute to the french presidency for that. albeit, i think the whole first-reading process is severely flawed, and i hope we do not adopt this for future legislative acts.
mr president, when you consider the ambitions we had just a few months ago for reducing co2 emissions from cars, these proposals are deeply disappointing. they let down the environment, they let down car drivers, who are going to be forced to pay more to use vehicles which use excessive quantities of fuel, and they even let down the european car industry, which will be at risk of being overtaken by more innovative competitors. the argument is that the car industry is in financial crisis. but nothing we do, no proposals we make, no legislation we put into practice now will make any difference at all to the current situation of the industry. all we would be doing is telling the car designers to sit down in front of their computers and start building and designing the cars of the future. this legislation is sad. it is bad. and, given that the international energy agency has just predicted that oil reserves across the world will peak within 10 years, it might even be described as completely mad. i shall not vote for it.
mr president, this is an important dossier, and i am disappointed that the council is not here, because it now has a crucial role to play as the direction of its thinking is, i understand, rather different from that of this parliament. ms ayala sender referred to concerns about the legal base. while i support the principle of cross-border enforcement, it has to be legally sound and stronger than it is now. the offences covered by this proposal are limited to speeding, drink-driving, the seat belt and not driving through a red light. ms fouré said that these cannot be tolerated and ms ayala sender spoke of people getting away with it. i hope that, as we approach the next phase of discussion, we will address this aspect of getting away with it. people who get away with drink-driving, speeding or jumping red traffic lights are a danger to other citizens, but they are often, i would argue, the very same people who think that other rules of the road do not apply to them, whether we are talking about parking restrictions, congestion charges or, as ms raeva said, driving using a mobile phone. there are also those who ignore innovative measures such as low-emission zones. these are very important issues and no one should ignore them. we need cross-border, pan-european enforcement to counter them all. all the people who break the laws contribute to those 42 000 deaths which the commissioner spoke about earlier. if there were 42 000 deaths in any field of european activity other than driving, we would be up in arms about it day after day, week after week, month after month. colleagues, together we must act to strengthen this piece of legislation second time around for all our citizens in the 27 eu member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, all the institutions have been ambitious in this project, though not all in the same direction. the commission was ambitious in proposing a minimum guarantee of eur 100 000 and a payout term of three days. the council has been ambitious in opting for maximum harmonisation, and parliament has been ambitious to make sure that it works for the citizen. i wish to thank the rapporteur and other colleagues for their cooperation. the proposal to go in one jump from procedures that might in some countries not even cope with the current nine months allowed for paying out to just three days was maybe over-ambitious. we agree to a final timeframe of up to a possible maximum of 35 days, but a little reluctantly because we would have preferred a rather shorter timeframe. thirty-five days without access to funds still leaves citizens in a difficult position. this makes possibilities for emergency payouts important or, better still, arrangements for continuity of banking services. taking the bold step of maximum harmonisation means there are consequences to address, making this the first stage of a work in progress, which is evidenced by the number of items that the commission is asked to report on by the end of next year. one of the consequences is the need to have some higher balance exemptions, and i welcome the grandfathering of some socially relevant higher balanced provisions that were in place by the start of 2008. however, we have learnt lessons since then. indeed, that is what this entire directive is about: recent lessons. it is regrettable that we could not obtain an unreserved commitment to allow a higher protection for temporarily increased balances that occur, such as when houses are sold or pension lump sums paid out. following the collapse of the icelandic banks, there have been unhappy losses in such circumstances and it has put in train plans for special protection in several member states. people in long-term possession of large funds to put on deposit can do this and make the deposit safe by splitting it between institutions, but it is unrealistic to ask that lump-sum payments be channelled that way. the consequences of losses of lifetime funds is a lesson we do not need to learn again, so i hope the commissioner will indicate enthusiasm to allow additional protection for special temporarily increased balances, which we have asked him to report back on also by the end of next year.
madam president, ‘arrogance’ is the word that springs to mind when reading this lengthy report, because the text is redolent with it. for instance, paragraph 25 laments the fact that the funds available ‘do not, as they stand, allow the union to assume its role as a global player’. the same paragraph refers to the eu having the ‘capacity to assume its role as a global partner’. whoever wanted the eu to have such a role? why does it have such an inflated sense of its own importance? certainly no one in my country has been given a vote on the development of the eu as a global player. we were told it was a common market, which would provide cheap wine and nice holidays. i also note that the ‘global player’ wants its trademark for use in all communications with the masses and wants a major information campaign for the 2009 elections. for ‘information’, read ‘brainwashing’, because the eu will no doubt sell itself as the greatest benefit to humanity since penicillin, rather than the grotesque enemy of democracy and freedom of thought that it really represents. the aforementioned arrogance spills over into everything it touches. there is no better example than the recent disgraceful and disrespectful treatment of president klaus, a head of state, at a meeting in prague by members here. i put it to you that the eu has no democratic mandate whatsoever for the empire-building outlined in this budget.
mr president, at the end of the five-hour debate on the climate and energy package yesterday, the house was given a considered response on behalf of the presidency by minister borloo and on behalf of the commission by commissioner dimas and commissioner piebalgs. despite the fact that 50 or 60 members had taken part in the debate, they spoke to a house containing just four members. i believe that this shows a certain discourtesy both to the commission and to the presidency, and reduces the influence this house possesses. i would ask you to take up with party leaders the question of whether we should consider sanctions on members who take part in debates but cannot be bothered to be here to hear the response from the commission and presidency. (applause)
mr president, i am not one to be carried away by much of the hysteria over energy and climate change, but pursuing renewable energy has to be eminently sensible. however, it must be economically sustainable. on that basis, i am far from convinced about the rush to wind energy through unachievable targets. but my primary observation on this report is to support the move away from agro-fuel and the focus of biomass on waste streams, not food. turning agricultural, domestic and industrial waste into energy has always seemed to me to be the most sensible of all the renewable options. thus development of the third generation of energy from biomass and biogas has my full support.
mr president, i think all of us in this house agree on the need to reduce harmful gases, whether you believe in the concept of global warming and the threat to the earth or whether you just want to reduce pollution. however, let us remember that 12 times a year we move this house from brussels to strasbourg, not to mention the extra buildings we have in luxembourg. not only does that cost the taxpayers of europe eur 200 million a year, but it also emits 192 000 tonnes of co2 – equivalent to 49 000 hot-air balloons. it really is time for the european parliament to stop emitting all its hot air in these debates and to take the lead by ending the farce of brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg. it is time to end the hypocrisy.
mr president, the author of this report, alejandro cercas, is as engaging and intelligent a socialist as you could ask to meet, and there is a measure of reason in his assertion that there is an asymmetry caused by some derogations and opt-outs. in a perfect world, no country would order its workers to stop after a certain amount of time arbitrarily decreed. it is morally wrong. if i want to work for you, mr president, and you want to employ me and both of us are satisfied with the terms of our contracts, then neither our government nor the european union should have the right to come between us and declare that contract illegal. but, quite apart from the ethical arguments, it is also economically insane at a time like this to be imposing additional costs on europe’s economies. still, i am a souverainiste, and if other countries want to impose these restrictions on their own people, who are also their voters, that is for them to decide. what is outrageous is to impose these rules at european level on the united kingdom, whether through directives like this or through the judicial activism opened by the charter of fundamental rights. if we want that, we should have a referendum on it. pactio olisipiensis censenda est!
mr president, you know, the socialists claim to speak up for working men and women. but there is a saying about socialist politicians. most of them are middle class intellectuals and the rest have forgotten where they came from. let me tell you a story. my father was a bus driver and whenever we got an unexpected bill, whenever there was a school trip that he wanted to send me on, he would put in a few hours’ extra overtime just so he could pay that extra bill or he could send me on a school trip. if the working time directive had been around, none of this would have been possible. no one should be forced into working extra hours against their will; i think we all agree that, no matter where we sit in this parliament. but if you look at the impact of what we voted on today, this is a kick in the teeth for working men and women who wish to work a few extra hours to give their families a better life. shame on the socialists!
in writing. − i welcome the turmes report on energy produced from renewable sources, yet i realise that to reach the target will be difficult. in my own region, the south west of england, our major contribution to achieving this target will be some version of the severn tidal barrage. this will have a long lead time and it is therefore essential that some allowance be sought by the british government for the consequences of ‘projects in train’ and that the commission grant this derogation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the turmes report on renewable energy. my own country, scotland, is rich in renewable energy sources such as wind and tidal power. it is essential that europe takes the lead in promoting renewable energy – and i envisage an independent scotland being at the very heart of global development of renewable technologies.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal because i believe it sends an important signal about the need for a transformation of energy production to non-fossil and less polluting fuels within the eu and beyond. the 20% target is binding and a minimum. energy efficiency must also now be included in the renewables action plans of the member states. support schemes at that level have also been safeguarded, which is essential for investor confidence. it is true that the outcome on biofuels is not as positive as i would have wished. we have kept the 10% target, although we have effectively restricted the amount coming from agro-fuels and i welcome those additional measures. council has not shared parliament's vision in many respects. they need really to take on board the realities of climate change and use this directive as a basis for a move towards a low-carbon future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which strengthens our obligations for renewables targets, presenting a major opportunity to boost indigenous sources of energy in the eu, tackle climate change, enhance security of supply and promote competitiveness, growth and jobs. i supported this report because it has a review clause assessing by 2014 the impacts of increased use of renewable transport fuels which ensures that by reducing our co2 emissions, we are having not having an adverse effect on food prices or land use. the report states a 5% target for renewable transport fuels by 2015, with a sub target of 20% to promote the use of electric cars. in 2020, the target increases to 10% renewable transport fuels and 40% subtarget for the use of electric and hydrogen cars. the report includes strict sustainability criteria so that this report really can produce positive change and reductions in emissions which is why i support it.
in writing. − this report represents a revolution in the way we produce energy in the eu. the target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 is extremely ambitious but necessary if we are to win the fight against climate change. i hope, however, that the commission will be flexible in its interpretation of when these targets are met if they are to include large projects such as the severn barrage. the 10% target for road transport fuels is a vital part of this package and of the efforts to achieve the eu's goal of a low carbon economy. this so-called ‘biofuels target’ has been greatly improved to ensure that only those biofuels which deliver real emission reductions without increasing food prices are allowed in the eu. a strict set of social criteria has also been included which will safeguard people in the developing world who could otherwise have been adversely affected by the rapid development in biofuel production.
in writing. − the report is an important step in forcing member states to meet their renewable targets. renewable energy is vital to our fight against climate change.
in writing. − the proposed directive on the revision of the eu emission trading system is an improvement on the current system and is important at a global level. i was accordingly able to support mrs doyle’s report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, despite the numerous loopholes within it and the derogations granted to 10 new member states. why vote for an imperfect report? because it does make some progress when measured against the current regime. there will be an eu-wide cap for the ets sector, and member states will have less power in the process. the principle of a full auction of permits for the power sector has been maintained. the aviation sector has been granted only a small percentage of new access to the cdm. but the main importance of the revised scheme is that it provides the architecture for an important part of the post-kyoto agreement. we now have a scheme that other countries can join and use to help drive down their emissions – if they limit the pre-auction elements and set ambitious targets. the use of the revenue will be closely watched. member states cannot simply look on this as an addition to their coffers. it must be used to help the transformation to a low-carbon, sustainable economy, which the world needs.
in writing. − i support this proposal which balances ambitious climate change goals with the need to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and to protect jobs. allowances and auctioning of emission credits will occur for power plants until 2013 when all new power plants will have entirely auctioned allowances. for normal industry the switch to fully auctioned allowances will occur in 2020. i voted in favour of this report because it makes auctioning the general allocation principle, limits the amount of cdm/ji project credits that an installation can purchase to offset its emissions and still protects companies against carbon leakage.
in writing. − i am supporting this report, as i believe that the environmental integrity of the ets has been maintained and is a considerable improvement on the current system, as the polluter in future will pay for the right to emit through the auctioning of permits. the objective of reducing emissions from europe's power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020 is maintained, and this will automatically rise to a 30% reduction if there is an international agreement at the un climate talks in copenhagen in december 2009. i also believe that a balance has been achieved between jobs and the environment, which in an economic downturn is vitally important.
in writing. − the objective of cutting emissions from europe’s power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020 and for this to increase to 30% if there is an international agreement at the un climate talks in copenhagen in december 2009 should be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted against the hassi report. the provisions allowing member states to outsource 80% of emission reductions will allow rich countries to continue unsustainable practices at the expense of poorer, developing countries. this is not a situation which the eu should be promoting.
in writing. − i reluctantly voted against this report. the rapporteur had managed to include a number of important factors. there is now a reference to a 30% binding target for greenhouse gas reductions in the legislative text: the science says this is the minimum necessary by 2020. financing of greenhouse gas reductions in developing countries is to work to a +2-degrees target: let us hope those countries actually see some real money rather than nice promises. we now have a deadline on the introduction of a maritime emissions reduction target and many other small, but positive moves. but for me, it was impossible to vote for the 80% cdm which member states may use in third countries, rather than focussing on reductions within their own borders. the voting procedure used today meant that this particular proposal could not be tested by parliament as a whole. we have let our national governments off lightly and are once again putting the burden on third countries to do our work. i cannot support this.
in writing. − i support this report which sets out binding targets for member states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in areas of the economy not covered by the ets system, which represents real progress for a comprehensive system. the 10% target for non-ets sectors is divided between member states based on gdp/capita. this will allow a fair distribution of effort and ensure poorer countries can continue their accelerated growth. i support this report which introduced a long-term target of at least 50% overall emission reductions by 2035, and 60% by 2050, compared to 1990 levels, because it tackles both long and short term objectives in concordance with the clean air targets. the report includes an additional 'external emission reduction commitment' which will provide financial support for developing countries to reduce their emissions, so that no country is left behind and developing countries receive the financial support that they need in order for universal action on climate change to be most effective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr davies’ report on carbon dioxide storage. ccs is an emerging technology and further research is essential for an evaluation of its potential in combating global warming. the proposed directive provides a firm legal basis upon which the technology can be built and i consider that scotland has an important role to play in the development of this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will ensure a high degree of safety for human health and the environment. the directive on ccs puts in place a legal framework for the use of the new technology, including important safety conditions. this is important not only for safeguarding the environment, but also for giving investors legal certainty in developing new projects. however it is important that this report does not cause us to diverge from the main goal: further deployment of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency.
in writing. − the inclusion in this report of a eur 9 bn fund to clean up coal-fired power stations through the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) will offer exciting opportunities for the welsh coal industry. this chance must be seized upon, to make wales a leader in this new technology and unlock the potential of a lucrative export market. it is essential that europe takes the lead in this area, as finding a solution to the problem of coal is crucial, in particular when coal production is expected to rise globally by 60% in the next 20 years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the corbey report. europe has a critical role to play in the global reduction of greenhouse gasses and the implementation of binding obligations on fuel suppliers will form an important part of those reductions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the sacconi report on co2 emissions from new cars. whilst the compromise does not go as far as it ideally could, it nevertheless does set important targets for car manufacturers and will play a part in combating global warming.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation which is a key part of the eu’s climate change package and sets for the first time legal requirements for manufacturers to reduce emissions of co2 from all cars sold in the eu (regardless of where they are manufactured). the average new car fleet should achieve co2 emissions of 120g co2/k from 2012. this target is broken down to 130g co2/km by means of improvement in motor technology and the additional 10g should come from ‘eco-innovations’ such as new air conditioning designs. the regulation is flexible by calculating a manufacturer’s target based on the average across their fleet, meaning that they can offset a more-polluting car, with a less-polluting car.
in writing. − carbon from transport constitutes 21% of our carbon emissions. setting ambitious targets for the automotive industry is therefore essential in ensuring that the car industry holds true to its voluntary target, which it has failed to meet in the past. by setting high standards for europe's potential 500 million customers, we shall also be setting global standards for the world to follow. with overcapacity in the global car industry, it is imperative that europe takes the lead in the production of green cars, which is where consumers are likely to turn to in future.
in writing. − i voted to support the legislation as amended, both on this proposal to reduce emissions of co2 from cars and on the entire climate change package. this is an important step to ensure that europe meets its targets to cut emissions by 20% by 2020 and will send a strong message to the rest of the world ahead of next year's talks in copenhagen that europe means business. we already have the technology to help us meet these targets and there can be no better example of this than the cutting-edge work being carried out at loughborough university, in my own constituency, which is world-renowned for its development of green technologies and has recently unveiled a new hydrogen refuelling station, one of only two in the uk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the climate change package because i believe that the world is at a crucial juncture. we face an unprecedented challenge to our way of life. but only through working together can member states have an effect. it is at times like this that the eu needs to face up to its responsibilities and act as a world leader. and it has done so. no other country or group of countries has set a legally binding process with the scope and potential of this package. green members of this house have argued that the package has been watered down. but they are being unrealistic. the environmental effectiveness of the system is not in question. instead we have struck a workable balance – between the need for industry to continue to profit in difficult economic times, the social needs of europe, and the future of our environment. this was, therefore, a package that socialists were right to support, and i was very glad to do so.
in writing. − ukip recognises the value of certain elements of the council’s position in preserving the right of britons to work, and we have voted against other amendments, in this report, which specifically undermine those elements. however, the council’s position contains many other elements, which ukip cannot agree with and cannot vote for. we, therefore, abstain from voting on amendment 30.
in writing. − i voted to keep the opt-out as my priority is first and foremost to protect west midlands jobs and ensure that my region retains a competitive edge. i have always worked hard to protect workers but i do not feel that restricting people’s choices is the best way to achieve this. i have spoken to many workers and sme owners for whom the downturn is causing job losses and business failures; they have asked me to retain their choice. in my experience, restricting peoples’ overtime only favours those that can afford to weather the storm and it is important that we give people the means to support their families. there are safeguards in place in the common position to ensure that workers are not being exploited.
in writing. − i believe it is essential that workers have the free voluntary option of choosing the hours they work. if there is to be any continuation of opt-out arrangements, workers must be protected from exploitation. the common position attempts to achieve this balance, continuing to permit individuals to opt out of the 48-hours (on average) maximum weekly working limit contained in the directive introducing new safeguards, to prevent the exploitation of individuals. these include a prohibition on signing the opt-out at the same time as signing an employment contract; a ‘cooling off’ period of six months within which workers can change their minds, and a requirement for workers to renew their agreement to opt out every year. the common position text attempts to retain the flexibility of the individual opt-out whilst strengthening the important protection mechanisms for workers and on balance i decided to vote in favour of the compromise proposal – i.e. retaining the opt-out. the parliament position favours no exceptions to the 48 hours-maximum working time (calculated over 12 months), and says the opt-out must end three years after the adoption of the directive. it also says that any period of on-call time should count as working time.
in writing. − in voting to reject the amendment, i am seeking simply to protect the united kingdom’s opt-out from the working time directive, which the amendment, if passed, would abolish. my vote should not be seen, in any way, as support for the common position on the working time directive as a whole.
in writing. − i support this report which will safeguard workers' rights, ending exploitation of working hours. the working time directive limits the working week to 48 hours, averaged over 12 months and will come into force by 2012. i support the classification of on-call time as inclusive of these hours, allowing workers more time with their families. working more than 48 hours a week poses serious health risks, most importantly the link between long hours and cardiovascular disorder, diabetes mellitus and musculoskeletal problems. i support the positive impact that this report will have on health and safety in the workplace and the prevention of accidents. many accidents have been contributed to sleep deprivation because of excessive working hours, namely the paddington rail crash. this report will bring a real improvement of living standards to thousands of scottish employees which is why i support it.
in writing. − the vote today by parliament to end the ‘opt out’ from the working time directive should be welcomed. too many people have no choice but to work longer hours because their employer demands it of them. the basic principle of labour law is to protect the weaker party – the employee. today is the first step on the way to conciliation to end the ‘opt out’. it was remiss of the council of ministers to have no one present while the vote was taking place.
in writing. − every year, thousands of people are killed or injured on europe's roads. it is essential that action is taken by governments across europe to ensure that road safety is taken seriously. at present, the issue of drivers escaping justice by ignoring traffic laws whilst driving in foreign countries exacerbates the already grim situation. increased cooperation across the eu in the enforcement of speeding and drink-driving laws is to be commended, and i accordingly voted in favour of the ayala sender report.
in writing. − i support this legislation which aims to facilitate the enforcement of sanctions against drivers who commit an offence in another member state than the one where the vehicle is registered.
in writing. − firstly, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her hard work on this dossier and, secondly, i would like to congratulate parliament as a whole for reinforcing this strong position to send to council in the light of the difficulties this proposal faces there. cross-border enforcement is a necessity across the eu if we are serious about reducing road traffic accidents and deaths. it is a nonsense that a citizen driving outside of his/her own member state can flout traffic laws on speeding, drink-driving, failure to wear a seatbelt or failure to stop at a red light without receiving the appropriate punishment. i believe this is an important step to better cooperation between enforcement agencies, which hopefully will lead to a fully harmonised road safety enforcement across the eu.
madam president, the european parliament should welcome the eu’s annual report on human rights. but once again we should call for more emphasis on the delivery of concrete results on the ground and of mainstreaming of human rights throughout the whole european union system. i welcome the big achievement of the year – the eu-backed resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty put forward by our portuguese presidency colleagues – but, still, over 1 200 people were executed in 24 countries throughout the world, and this campaign must continue. much remains to be done on mainstreaming. i regret that just last week the commission approved the gsp+ preferential trade status for 16 countries, despite documented evidence provided to the commission of human rights abuses, labour law violations and even murder in countries such as colombia and sri lanka. finally, looking to the future, the european union should now look to discuss at an early stage with the incoming united states administration their re-engagement with the un human rights council. we should agree clear objectives for the council between now and the review by the general assembly in 2011.
madam president, may i first of all endorse what my colleague marco cappato has said, applauding the action at the un to try and achieve the decriminalisation of homosexuality around the world. i also support that strongly. i wanted to say a word – and i agree here with hélène flautre – about the absolutely scandalous absence of the council and the presidency this morning at the sakharov prize ceremony. it was a great pity that the presidency was not present to hear the moving and courageous message from hu jia’s wife. i think it might have led to certain thought-provoking reassessments of our relationship with china. but i also wanted to say a few words about torture. in june the eu, on the international day in support of victims of torture, underlined the priority it attaches to the global eradication of torture, and encouraged all states to sign and ratify opcat, the optional protocol to the torture convention. so why have only nine eu states become full parties, with a further 12 in the process of ratification? what about the other six? is there a common position? and, if not, why not? in the same declaration in june, the eu condemned any action aimed at authorising torture and other forms of ill-treatment. why, nearly two years on, is there still no sufficient and comprehensive response to parliament’s report on european cooperation with extraordinary rendition? it is from washington that the truth is now going to come out, just as it is coming out from the senate armed services committee. if eu states do not come clean, their dirty secrets will be revealed anyway from across the atlantic. lastly, why are we not responding to the request from the us, and from the portuguese foreign minister, to help resettle guantánamo detainees? we should help incoming president obama to close this appalling chapter in america’s and europe’s history.
madam president, in the debate on gay rights, i do have to say that it seems to me there is a total neglect of the infringement of freedom of expression of many, and, in particular, freedom to express religious opinion on the subject. people of faith, accepting the teaching of the bible on the subject of homosexuality, are vilified, nay, persecuted for daring to express their opinions of conscience and conviction. in sweden, we have seen a pastor prosecuted for quoting the bible. in my country, a church advert reciting scripture has been banned. yet at the gay pride parade in belfast last year, a placard could be carried declaring ‘jesus is a fag’, and no action was taken to deal with that inflammatory hate crime. why? because it seems to me the rights of this cosseted group are elevated above those of all others, and that is wrong.
mr president, discrimination is alive and well, and it is living in the world and in the european union. that is why i want to congratulate the french presidency on the initiative at the united nations on the decriminalisation of homosexuality. it is depressing that we have heard, here today in the house, intolerance promoted. discrimination scars our world and – can i say to others – it scars the souls of those who practice it. discrimination is given voice by politicians and institutions, such as the vatican, that should know better. that is why i want to thank you, on behalf of those people who do not have a voice, because if they used it – as homosexuals or because of their gender identity – they would be beaten, tortured, imprisoned or face capital punishment, solely because of their difference. we will win. we will achieve equality. as a gay man, i am committed to that. we will achieve equality simply because justice and goodness are on our side. thank you to the presidency. it is a great privilege for you to end your presidency on such a commitment.
mr president, i welcome the honesty and detail of the catania report, even if there are parts of it that i dispute. exposing our own shortcomings in a report like this should remind us to stop preaching quite so much to others outside of the eu. many in this house queued up to lambast america over extraordinary rendition and to criticise european governments that cooperated with the cia. personally i would be horrified if we had not cooperated in any way with the cia against terrorist fanatics who would destroy our way of life. there is no mention in this report of italy’s action, for instance, of deporting foreign criminals. such a popular and successful policy, as it would appear, is obviously far too controversial to highlight here. it is also a serious blow to the unquestioning, absolutist dogma that has infected the debate about human rights. i wish, for instance, that in my country, the united kingdom, we had deported a foreign criminal like the italian citizen in my london constituency who murdered his headmaster but, after serving a jail sentence, was allowed by judges to stay in the uk, citing his human rights. law-abiding citizens in europe deserve to know that their own rights are protected against people who would seek to attack them.
the next item is question time (b6-0491/2008). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question no 33 by ryszard czarnecki (h-0952/08) subject: combating terrorism the 10 terrorist attacks in mumbai last week claimed the lives of at least 188 people, and injured hundreds of others. what steps is the commission taking to force the pakistani government to stop supporting terrorist groups on its territory? question no 34 by wiesław stefan kuc (h-0955/08) subject: european commission action concerning terrorist groups in pakistan what kind of measures is the european commission taking to force the pakistani authorities to refrain from supporting and facilitating terrorist group activities?
question no 35 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0966/08) subject: investment in energy infrastructures the economic and financial crisis is affecting many of the member states. each week we hear about new measures affecting thousands of employees in different member states. investment in energy infrastructures is one of the means available to europe for tackling the economic crisis. the construction of such infrastructures (oil and gas pipelines or infrastructures for the production and transport of electricity) calls for large-scale investment, with a time-frame for project implementation of medium to long duration. if there is to be sufficient investment in energy infrastructures, either the member states will need to be able to draw on a bigger ten-t budget or their budget deficits will increase for a certain period of time. what measures is the commission envisaging in order to support member states, in this period of economic and financial crisis, in their efforts to achieve a significant increase in investment in energy infrastructures?
question no 36 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0889/08) subject: education of children of migrants in a recent communication (com(2008)0423), the commission proposed that a consultation should be held on the subject of the education of the children of migrants, referring also to the children of european migrant workers. what financial mechanisms will the commission make available to the member states in order to improve the teaching of the mother tongue of such children, particularly when the language in question is an official eu language?
question no 37 by seán ó neachtain (h-0896/08) subject: white paper on sport what elements of the white paper on sport (com(2007)0391) have been implemented to date and what are the future policy priorities for the commission in the area of sport over the coming months?
madam president, on the appropriate point of order, i just wish to say, with mr cappato present, that i am very disappointed that question 38 does not now receive a reply from the european commission. i understand from your services that mr cappato will receive a written reply – or do you envisage taking question 38 later on?
mr beazley, i was about to say that question no 38 will be answered in writing. i too am disappointed that we have not got to it but in fact question time is always structured in that we have 20 minutes per commissioner and commissioner figeľ has already gone way past that time. so we now have to move to commissioner almunia.
would it be in order for the commissioner to send me a copy of his reply to mr cappato, because i have an interest in this subject? you could argue this is not the time to discuss the matter. there should be no flags at the olympic games other than the olympic flag. if we had the european flag, my countrymen and yours might win a few more medals.
mr beazley, i am conscious that we wish to continue with those who have posed questions. i am sure mr cappato will be good enough to send you a copy of his answer.
question no 39 by manuel medina ortega (h-0886/08) subject: euro and inflation bearing in mind the inflationary pressures seen at world level in the past year, how has the euro zone reacted and what are the current prospects as regards maintaining the purchasing power of the common currency?
question no 40 by georgios papastamkos (h-0891/08) subject: organisation of economic governance in the eu in terms of the intensity and fully binding nature of regulation, an asymmetry exists between full monetary union and an economic union which remains incomplete. in the commission's view, what strategic direction should be followed in the organisation of the eu's economic governance in order to remedy this asymmetry?
mr mitchell, i would have to say that sitting here tonight has made me rather uncomfortable. there are problems, and we have to find a way forward. perhaps i could say, in the hearing of members of the commission, that perhaps they would understand that we have a queue of members waiting for answers and, whilst we are very appreciative of detailed answers, sometimes we might appreciate faster answers. it is not for me to criticise, but maybe you would note the comment.
question no 44 by emmanouil angelakas (h-0890/08) subject: pharmaceutical treatment - cross-border healthcare article 14 of the proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare (com(2008)0414) refers to the recognition of prescriptions issued in another member state. bearing in mind that not all proprietary medicines are marketed in all member states, that the same proprietary medicine may be sold with different packaging or content in different member states, that in some member states proprietary medicines may be sold only under a brand name rather than their generic name, and that medicines mentioned in a prescription may be in a language unfamiliar to the doctor or pharmacist providing the healthcare, what is the commission's view as to whether a product prescribed in a prescription, but not marketed in a given member state, can be replaced by another medicinal product (princeps or generic), bearing in mind that this practice is outlawed in some member states? will it provide more detailed information on the provisions it intends to adopt (pursuant to article 14(2)(a) and (b)) to ensure that the authenticity of prescriptions can be verified and the medicines prescribed correctly identified?
question no 45 by ioannis gklavakis (h-0892/08) subject: labelling of foodstuffs the recent food scandal in china has once again highlighted the need for better labelling of foodstuffs and improved traceability of the ingredients used in their manufacture. under existing community legislation governing consumer information on foodstuffs, some indications are compulsory, while others are optional. will indication of product origin become compulsory? are changes planned in the labelling of processed products of animal origin? will the place of origin of the animal by-products used have to be indicated? will this be compulsory for all member states? are specific provisions planned for processed products of animal origin from third countries? what provisions will be introduced for distance or online selling of foodstuffs?
member of the commission. - madam president, may i say that the regulations applicable to products produced in the european union are required to be adopted by countries exporting to the european union. and let me remind you of something else: if that were not the case, we would not be able to ban the import of meat from brazil, we would not be able to stop the import of milk and milk products from china, etc. it is precisely because we have these safety rules that we must feel confident that products imported into the european union are as safe as products produced in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, a small quantity of dairy products has been found in italy, fraudulently imported from china, but that does not mean that we do not have proper regulations. it's just that citizens often find fraudulent ways to import such products.
commissioner, i would suggest that the present arrangements are not working. this is illustrated by recent experience in my own constituency. there has just been a scare on the island of ireland about dioxin-contaminated feedstuff in the republic of ireland, affecting produce circulating throughout the whole island of ireland. in my constituency of northern ireland, where none of that contaminated foodstuff was consumed, all pork products had to be taken off the shelves. why? because we could not adequately tell what was the country of origin of the pork produce. that is a vivid illustration that the present arrangements are not working. we should not have had to inflict all that damage upon our local pork industry because we did not know where exactly the pork produce on our shelves came from. so in the light of that, will you address the issues and tell us what lessons you have learned from that?
i am not sure whether you answered mrs harkin's question.
i understand your frustration, mrs doyle, and believe you me the services and i try to do our best – and i know we ought to do better. thank you all for your patience and, as it is the last question time before christmas, may i wish you also a happy christmas and new year! questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see annex). that concludes question time.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by jan andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european quality assurance reference framework for vocational education and training (com(2008)0179 - c6-0163/2008 - 2008/0069(cod)) (a6-0438/2008), and – the report by thomas mann, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the european credit system for vocational education and training (ecvet) (com(2008)0180 - c6-0162/2008 - 2008/0070(cod)) (a6-0424/2008).
thank you, and the same to you and all the college of commissioners and staff.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 december 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by javier moreno sánchez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the evaluation and future development of the frontex agency and the european border surveillance system (eurosur) [2008/2157(ini)] (a6-0437/2008).
i am sure the opinions of the mali tourism minister are important but we would rather hear yours, mr pflüger.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 december 2008. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr gianluca susta, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the impact of counterfeiting on international trade [2008/2133 (ini) ] (a6-0447/2008) and the oral question to the commission on counterfeiting in the context of consumer protection by mrs arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the pse group (o-0097/2008 - b6-0486/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, can i firstly thank mr susta for his good cooperation on this report. we did not agree on everything but he was always very cooperative and as flexible as he could be. firstly, mr susta gave us some global figures on the scale of counterfeiting. just this week in my constituency two separate events have drawn attention to the scale of counterfeiting at the regional level. firstly, the uk border agency raided a ship in grangemouth in scotland, in my constituency, and seized gbp 3.6 million worth of fake designer goods. the ship had come to scotland via holland from china. again this week in scotland, it was revealed that so far this year scottish police have seized half a million cds and dvds with a street value close to gbp 5 million. the police went on to say in their press release that the distribution of these knock-off dvds and albums was nearly all controlled by organised crime. so this is clearly a massive problem across the whole of the european community. as others have said, counterfeiting is often seen as a victimless crime, but of course, as we are discussing, it is far from it. there are at least three groups of losers for counterfeited goods. the first group is of course the business community: trade affects legitimate retailers and other businesses who pay taxes, employ people and generate revenues; also counterfeiting denies authors, artists and researchers a fair return on their talent and investments. there are the customers that have been mentioned by mrs wortmann-kool who are killed, harmed or inconvenienced by fake products. then there is the third group of people, the victims of criminality and anti-social behaviour, which are often financed by the proceeds of counterfeited goods. the pse group largely agrees with what the commissioner has outlined as the three areas of action required to tackle this problem. firstly we need tougher action against third countries that encourage or turn a blind eye to counterfeiting and fail to protect the intellectual property rights of others. we do not believe that acta is the full solution to this problem and we certainly believe that, if acta is going to come into effect, we need it to be more transparent, democratic and generally multilateral. as mrs wortmann-kool says, we see part of the solution as an international scoreboard naming and shaming those countries that fail to respect the rights of others as far as counterfeit goods are concerned. the second area where we need action is the ongoing work of law enforcement agencies such as the police, trading standards officers and customs authorities. we look forward to seeing the czech proposal next year for better european cooperation in this field. the third and final area is the need to educate the public about the damage done by counterfeiting, and to explain to young people that individuals who work to create films, tv content and music have a right to learn a living from it. what we do not believe is that we should criminalise individuals who download the odd pirated song or pirated music or who buy a fake cd or fake football shirt. we do not want to criminalise these people; we want to educate them and get them on our side to tackle the real criminals in this process.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome the reduction of the financial reporting burden on smes. smaller companies are not simply downsized versions of large corporations, so some reporting required of large companies is not relevant at all. other parts create an excessive drain on resources, do not fit with the realities of the huge variety of smaller companies that we have in europe and, in consequence, do not serve the public interest. unnecessary reporting does a lot more harm than good, so i am glad to be rid of some. let us keep up the good work. however, the part of the final text of the report that my group and others disagree with is that on correlation tables. the commission wanted correlation tables on transposition to be mandatory, even in this little directive, and that is our position. the council will not agree because it says this is an unnecessary burden. my answer to that is that it should not be. we must find a way to make transposition of eu legislation accessible. there is an enormous democratic deficit. member states are responsible, but europe gets blamed. there are some similarities here with the criticism that has been made against the lisbon treaty, because it is unreadable as a stand-alone document. however, there should be even more of an outcry from the public because, day after day, this is just what many member state governments are doing to their citizens and businesses in their transpositions. let us be clear. this is something that is not an eu malaise. it is a member state government malaise and it must end.
rapporteur. − mr president, e-justice seems to have been very much at the centre of both the previous slovenian and french presidencies and we know that the coming czech presidency also wishes to continue the good work on e-justice. e-justice within this parliament, and certainly within the committee on legal affairs, also chimes in with the theme that we have long had close to our hearts, that of access to justice and how we provide access to justice on a cross-border basis. it is hard enough to get access to justice even in a national context: we think about access to lawyers, about affordability, about being able to understand or to comprehend the legal system. but put that into a european cross-border context, with different legal cultures and languages, and it becomes even more complex and difficult for our citizens to access. but we should be able to harness those difficulties and put them together with all the possibilities offered by modern technology. if europe is borderless, so is the internet; if languages are difficult, technological tools now offer us the possibility of instant translation. we should be able to develop the technological possibilities to deliver better cross-border access to justice. it is clear that a number of our member states have seen the possibilities within their own borders and are developing their own systems. that is good! also there is joint working on a number of projects – some to provide linked-up registers to deal with businesses and land registries – and, again, it is good. but for us, as parliamentarians, what we really want to see is something that delivers directly to our citizens and to their concerns about justice in their daily lives. we want europe’s citizens to feel the difference of an e-justice project at european level. it appears that the work on the justice portal may do that: it may give information about who, what, where, which lawyers, which interpreters, where to get legal aid – all sorts of information. the project is ambitious, and it will need to be. but we do not want to just stop there, at information. we would like to see the real possibility of access to cross-border justice online, to see those european instruments of the payment order, of small claims available to our citizens online. it is clear that some member states are working on joint projects and, again, it is good that we harness that enthusiasm and that ambition. however, we also need the commission to keep the european context – to keep it as a european ambition – so that we move forward together in a coordinated way. that is why, attached to parliament’s report, there is an action plan that brings out many of these themes. this could deliver our dream of a real europe of borderless justice. let us make it happen.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think my group will have no difficulty, i hope, in supporting my own report and certainly that of mr lópez-istúriz white. the report i want to address – because it brings problems for members across this house – is that of mr medina ortega. we all share the same idea: we have freedom of movement of judgments. we would like freedom of movement of authentic acts, and i add: ‘or equivalent documents’. there has been much talk about facilitating the lives of our citizens. to me, that means the lives of all europe’s citizens and it would not serve us well if a number of countries and a number of legal traditions were excluded from this area of justice. that is what will happen if we do not look more widely and have patience and tolerance for legal systems that on the face of it may appear different, but if you dig deeper have very similar ways of approaching things. we have managed to recognise one another’s documents. there is no earthly reason why with tolerance and care we cannot recognise one another’s acts when they are done by contract or notarial act, but not in exactly the same manner and form. my plea is: please, respect the amendments that have been put today. they may not be passed, but the spirit of them is that this is a europe of justice for all citizens and all legal cultures. it should not become exclusive.
mr president, i welcome all three reports but i shall first speak on guardianship. the protection of the most vulnerable citizens is an issue which i care very much about. we know the population of europe is getting older: life expectancy has increased to 80 years of age today and, by 2050, 37% of the population will be over 60 years of age. populations are also more mobile. last year in my own country 400 000 people emigrated to retire aboard, so it is important to make sure that they receive the same protection as they would at home. the challenges for european society posed by such demographic changes are many, such as we have already heard on health and social care. i believe it is crucial to enable the older generation to live an independent life and a dignified life. i was rapporteur last year on a report to ensure that older citizens can stay healthier and live longer and independently. the report we are debating today fits particularly well, i believe, with the proposals to ensure that they can continue to look after their own property and manage their everyday life wherever they live, free from exploitation and abuse. but i am also concerned about the hague convention. i welcome the minister’s action on this, but we should not just make sure that the existing legislation is ratified: we should make sure that it is effective. i want to say a couple of things on the authentic act. i welcome the initiatives to cut down administrative burdens for our citizens, but i, too, am concerned that this report does not take into account the different legal traditions that exist within the community, including different legal instruments such as the english deed or different forms of notarial professions as exist in england. i believe the report, as it stands, risks undermining the national law of certain member states, particularly mine, in terms of administration of estates. i believe that ignoring such differences would go against the principle of mutual recognition and the aim of achieving equal access to justice for all citizens. for these reasons, i and my delegation are supporting the amendments by mrs wallis. i very much welcome mrs wallis’s report on e-justice. i think some of the issues we are raising in the other reports are interlinked, so it means that wherever people are in the european union they will have equal access to justice.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am afraid i cannot resist. mr medina says that the authentic act – and this is why i say that we must look carefully and we must look deeply – has to be a public act. if you look at english common law and if you look at an english solicitor who prepares deeds, an english solicitor is an officer of the court, authorised by the court, and therefore can prepare a public document. look at it, please understand it. there are things that are common and deserve more investigation and consideration in other jurisdictions and other legal cultures. now i will finish that argumentative mood and turn to the french presidency to say: madam minister, thank you so much for your cooperation and the work that your staff and others have done over the months of your presidency. it has been fabulous. we have got through so much, and your determination and drive to really make a difference to our citizens’ lives in the area of justice have been very much appreciated. thank you. you will be missed.
madam president, i think that we in this – very full – chamber all agree on the importance of intellectual property, not only for knowledge economies but also in terms of the serious damage that can be caused to consumers across europe, for example by counterfeit medicines, counterfeit foods and counterfeit car parts. i had some real reservations about the original resolution, which placed too much emphasis on consumers. we could have had the ridiculous situation in which travellers were searched at borders and had their computers, mp3 players and ipods taken from them and searched for potential counterfeit material. thank goodness the greens came forward with a more sensible alternative and were very willing, in the spirit of christmas compromise, to withdraw the unwarranted amendment on the criticisms of companies. overall, we were very pleased to vote for the resolution. i have now achieved my ambition of speaking to an empty chamber, and would like to end by wishing everyone who is still here a very merry christmas and a happy new year!
in writing. − ukip voted in favour of this report because eur 4.9 billion of unspent appropriations will be returned to the national governments.
in writing. − the need to update existing rules on toy safety is long overdue. i welcome today’s vote. children’s safety has to be our paramount consideration and i hope that the toy industry will take heed.
in writing. − i agree with the approach as set out by the rapporteur which reflects the current concerns of so many european citizens. the fact there has been coordinated european action on this issue draws attention to the fact that europe can change people’s lives for the better even in the middle of crises such as the current financial situation. practical measures have been understood by the rapporteur and this has assisted in making this proposal workable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which simplifies the accounts process for small and medium sized businesses, reducing their administrative burden.
in writing. − i supported the report by mr susta. counterfeiting can be the destroyer of jobs, the cause of ill-health and the source of funding to international criminal gangs and terrorists. because of this it is vital that parliament, council and commission take whatever steps are necessary. yet multinational corporations in their search to maximise profits create a climate that encourages the production of counterfeit goods and public acceptance of the process. i will give one example. the regionalisation/zoning of dvds sees massive price differences across regions which consumers can only access by adapting illegally their dvd players or purchasing pirate dvds illegally, as a global single market in their product has been prevented by technological chicanery. imagine other companies indulging their profit-seeking in similar ways across the board.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which plays an important part in combating counterfeiting which accounts for some 7-10% of world trade, costing 500 billion euros. the aim of this report is to put forward a concrete and consistent proposal for the eu to fight against counterfeiting, a stance which i support. whilst respecting fundamental rights such as the protection of privacy and data, it provides a framework for universal efforts to suppress counterfeiting, therefore protecting thousands of skilled workers’ jobs.
author. − madam president, if colleagues could think for a moment about their worst nightmare, it would not even come close to what is happening to the people of zimbabwe. once a prosperous country, it has been turned on its head by its president. the country is collapsing – no governance, no jobs, hyperinflation, no food, no health service – and the breakdown of the sanitation system is now creating a cholera outbreak. a week ago, zimbabwean president robert mugabe said the cholera outbreak had been arrested. he claimed western powers wanted to use an epidemic as an excuse to invade zimbabwe and topple him. however, south africa has declared most of its northern border with zimbabwe a disaster area, as the disease spreads over with refugees, and oxfam has warned that the situation in zimbabwe could get a lot worse. today’s reported figures show that 1 111 lives have been lost and the disease is spreading. there are 20 581 cases of cholera. cholera is a highly infectious disease caused by a bacterium which creates an intestinal infection. symptoms include diarrhoea and dehydration. in its most severe form a sudden onset of acute watery diarrhoea can lead to death by severe dehydration and kidney failure. it can kill healthy adults in hours. to give an example of the impact the disease is having on the population, i want to tell parliament about cynthia hunde’s son, munashe. munashe died of cholera shortly before his first birthday. cynthia had gone to work in south africa to try and provide a better future for her son, as there is no work in zimbabwe, leaving munashe in the care of her mother. when she returned to her mother’s home, she found munashe dying in his grandmother’s arms. interviewed by the bbc, she said: ‘i feel so bad … it’s so hard to describe. when you have a son you have dreams for him. i came home expecting to find him running around the house, but that just didn’t happen’. please, colleagues, support this resolution condemning zimbabwe and please help innocent victims like munashe.
author. − madam president, in the past few years zimbabwe has figured so often in these debates that we could be forgiven for running out of condemnatory words to say, but we must speak up because the long-suffering people of zimbabwe have themselves been denied a voice by this ruthless despot, robert mugabe. he has forfeited all rights to claim democratic legitimacy, because of his wanton disregard for human rights, political freedoms and the rule of law. the recent shooting of perence shiri, one of mugabe’s henchmen, hints at the anger bubbling under zimbabwe’s surface. shiri has the blood of 20 000 people on his hands. it was shiri who, with assistance from communist north korea, systematically massacred innocent civilians in the early 1980s in matabeleland. if that was not bad enough, mugabe’s neglect has now caused an epidemic of cholera, a disease that had been almost totally eradicated throughout zimbabwe until recently. in response to international concerns, mugabe says, outrageously, that the outbreak amounts to genocide perpetrated by britain, my country, the former colonial master. it is perhaps this groundless accusation of neo-colonialism, combined with our own post-colonial guilt, that prevents us in europe from taking more robust action. yet when we look to africa to provide a solution we find an ocean of indifference and ineffectiveness. the strident condemnation of mugabe by the prime minister of kenya and the president of botswana stands out in stark contrast to the apathy of most other african states and leaders, and in particular south africa, although we must now hope that a president zuma takes a tougher approach. if the african union aspires to anything like the authority of the european union, it needs to address mugabe’s reign of terror and consider the possibility of action to force mugabe from office. one concrete measure we should encourage is the indictment of mugabe in the international criminal court through a un security council resolution, as has proven useful in the case of president al-bashir over darfur. i hope, the next time i speak on zimbabwe, it will be to hail mugabe’s demise and departure from office.
madam president, two years ago anna politkovskaya was murdered. she was shot down at home, in the lift of her block of flats. a gun was dropped beside her. it was broad daylight. the question at the time was ‘who pulled the trigger?’. the question since then has been ‘who pulled the strings that pulled the hands that pulled the trigger?’. it was in the style of a mafia killing, but she never wrote about the mafia. she only wrote about the russian government and its actions in chechnya. it was a warning – a warning to other free-spirited journalists to keep off the authoritarian grass. it will succeed unless world opinion and a clear message from the eu institutions force a proper trial and a proper exposé of those who gave the orders. we cannot bring anna back, but we can bring her justice. we can make her a symbol of freedom, and not one of suppression. we must unite to that end.
