mr president, at this first sitting of the new year, i would like to refer to the political crisis in which lebanon continues to sink and to the role which our parliament must play. in addition to the complex economic and political problems facing this friendly country, there is still an institutional vacuum, since since 23 november 2007 it has not been possible for parliament to elect a president - this election has been postponed 12 times - and parliament remains closed, and it is not possible to discuss the problems, the prospects and to use all the constitutional powers of parliament to elect a president. i am aware of your sensitivity and the messages you have sent in this direction, mr president, but i would like to stress once again that we must express our deep concern about the consequences of this crisis for the suffering people of lebanon, but also for peace and stability in the region. we are obliged to do so by our democratic duties, but also by our commitments in the partnership. the association agreement with lebanon provides for a permanent political dialogue between the european parliament and the lebanese parliament and we must use this opportunity to send an effective message.
mr president, commissioner, the problem of taxation and loss carry-forward for a group of companies operating across borders in the european union cannot be tackled simply by the criterion of facilitating cross-border business. the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of profits and losses on the basis of the profits of companies is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. as long as there is no level playing field in taxation and there is no minimum agreement on a common, unified corporate tax base - which would set uniform and transparent rules for the calculation of the tax base - the provision of possibilities such as tax relief for cross-border losses is to be regarded with caution at the present stage because it involves serious risks of distorting the tax systems and revenues of the member states, as well as the very functioning of the internal market and competition between companies.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by glenis willmott, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the community strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work (2007/2146 ((ini)) (a6-0518/2007).
madam president, health and safety at work undoubtedly contribute to quality management, economic efficiency and competitiveness, and help to develop the economy, to achieve budgetary objectives and to achieve the budgets of the social security funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the safety of the workers themselves. the 2002-2006 strategy has produced positive results and the prospects for 2007 and beyond are positive if we all, not only european but also national planning, contribute to the monitoring and planning of health and safety, especially in the sensitive categories of young people, older workers - whom we invite to participate in the production process for a longer period of their lives - and women, who are also invited to participate in working life. a working life with new demands, fragmented by many different contracts, self-employment, and small and medium-sized enterprises that lack the ability of large enterprises to enforce proper working conditions and safety. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate mrs willmott, because her report largely covered up the serious shortcomings of the commission's communication on this subject. decent work means health and safety at work. it means the preparation of studies on the prevention of occupational hazards, but also the carrying out of preventive medical examinations by employers. it means lifelong learning, vocational education and training. it means health and safety as the basic criteria for trade agreements with third countries. the commission's proposals are based on the principle of the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome, and the principle of the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. i am referring in particular to the expansion of working poverty, the rapid increase in informal employment and the extension of working hours. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the european social area, the social area, the social dimension of the european union.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i thank all the speakers for their very positive contributions. indeed, every accident, every injury, every death at work, such as those which occurred last december in turin, italy, reminds us that more needs to be done to protect europe's working men and women. it reminds us that more must be done to achieve our ultimate goal: to make europe a safer place to work. the new strategy is aimed precisely at reducing the current unacceptable situation of accidents and occupational diseases. i would like to stress that, in view of the human resources available, it is considered that the current staffing levels will enable the commission services to carry out their duties properly in this area. in the context of the overall development of human resources available in the field of employment and social affairs, the commission will continuously assess the workload in the various specific areas and will staff accordingly. i would also like to mention the needle pollution issue, which we are preparing a proposal to amend the directive on, and which we will present in 2008. i would like to thank the house again for this debate and for the adoption of mrs willmott's report. once again, it demonstrates the european parliament's strong political support for the principle that health and safety at work remains a high priority on the political agenda, both for the benefit of the economy and as a guarantee that workers return from work to their loved ones in good health.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday 15 january 2008, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr csaba öry, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (com (2007) 0159 c6-0104/2007 2007/0054 cod)) (a6-0515/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the original proposal from the european commission included in a single regulation the amended proposal for regulation no 11 on the elimination of discrimination in prices and transport conditions and amending regulation 852/2004 on food hygiene. the commission proposal was based on articles 75, 152 and 95 of the ec treaty and the procedure for adopting the regulation was co-decision. the co-legislators, the council and the parliament decided to split the original proposal into two separate regulations, one amending regulation no 11 on transport based on article 75 (3), which does not provide for any involvement of the european parliament in the legislative procedure and on which the committee on transport has delivered its opinion, and another amending the regulation on food hygiene based on articles 95 and 152, 4b) on which the committee on the environment is due to deliver its opinion shortly. we are called upon today to decide whether article 75 (3) is the appropriate legal basis for amending the transport regulation, while the amendment of regulation 852/2004 will be discussed later. the proposal for a regulation submitted today provides for the deletion of article 5, which has been in force since 1961, and for the amendment of article 6, which aims to reduce the administrative burden on carriers by removing the obligation for them to record price information and to include it in their shipping and accounting records. this amendment is intended to enable the prices and conditions of transport to be controlled and any discrimination to be detected. this is an amendment which corresponds exactly to the second subparagraph of article 75 (3) of the treaty on european union and, since the amendment of article 6 is necessary in order to enable the european institutions to monitor compliance with the principle of non-discrimination in transport in accordance with article 75 (3) of the treaty, the committee on legal affairs has shown that article 75 (3) is the only legal basis which can be used to amend regulation no 11.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, i would like to thank parliament for the very constructive cooperation and support for the quick adoption of the multiannual framework for the fundamental rights agency for the years 2007-2012. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, mr cashman, for his personal commitment on this file. the multiannual framework 2007-2012 as proposed by the commission and discussed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs will enable the agency to work to the best of its capabilities. i would like to say here that i fully understand the reasoning behind each of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. i am pleased to say that i can accept amendment 1; amendment 2 regarding the notion of ethnic minorities; amendments 3, 4, 5, 8 and 13 (in part) regarding the notion of multiple discrimination; amendment 15 regarding the notion of social exclusion and amendment 16 – in particular as all these amendments reflect the compromise solutions found in discussions between the presidency, the commission and the rapporteur. regarding the other amendments, i cannot accept them for a number of legal and technical reasons which i will explain here very quickly. some of the amendments do not comply with the basic regulation, namely amendments 10, 11 and 18. in some cases, amendments go beyond the regulation, particularly amendment 17. in some other cases they are in contradiction with the regulation, from my point of view of course, such as amendment 10. others do not correspond with the better regulation requirements, particularly amendments 2, 7 and 13, as regards the adding of ‘traditional national minorities and linguistic minorities’ that are already covered by the regulation. some amendments are outside community competence or the competence of the agency, namely amendments 14 and 15 (in part). finally, amendment 12 would significantly limit the scope of the areas to be dealt with by the agency as laid down in article 2 of our proposal. one point concerning amendment 6. i am not against the substance of the provision. however, the proposal for the multiannual framework is not, from my point of view, the best place to introduce general statements on the nature and definition of human rights. this is best done in relevant international conventions and in the charter. however, i will not oppose this amendment if both council and parliament are willing to accept it. finally, i cannot accept amendments 7 and 9. on amendment 7 the multiannual framework is designed to regulate obligations on european institutions and/or the member states to monitor compliance with all international human rights conventions to which the member states are party. on amendment 9, a reference to a review of the multiannual framework before the five-year period is not necessary, given that commission, council and parliament can always request to go outside the scope of article 2 of the framework. generally speaking, the time-frame of five years was set up to prevent jeopardising the effectiveness of the work of the agency, which needs time to plan its work and to deliver on it. the introduction of systematic reviews could risk undermining the work of the agency. finally, in my view the establishment of the agency has been a big success for the promotion of the respect of fundamental rights in the european union. it has also been a success in terms of interinstitutional cooperation. now we have to set the proper conditions for the agency to operate successfully and to prove its worth in the years to come.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the fundamental rights agency must finally start doing its important work. the rapporteur, whom i congratulate, was therefore obliged to limit the amendments to the proposed programme in order to facilitate a rapid interinstitutional agreement on this important issue. it would certainly be preferable if the thematic areas included social rights, explicit references to trafficking in human beings and the protection of privacy and human dignity in the context of measures taken against terrorism. but the door remains open. i shall be referring today in particular to an important amendment which i tabled with other colleagues, which was voted in favour and which makes explicit reference to access to an effective and independent judiciary, including the rights of the accused and the suspects. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. but at the same time, we tend to forget that every man is innocent until proven guilty. the defamation of defendants by the media for the sake of a television audience or even by official governments and authorities for the sake of a fleeting political gain, is a flagrant violation of this principle. and suspects, mr president, especially at a time when so many fundamental principles are being flexed in the name of fighting terrorism, cannot be kidnapped, abused and deprived of basic rights without consequence. if anything should have been learned from quantanamo, whose sixth anniversary of its opening has sadly just passed by with hardly anyone noticing, it is this.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr angelilli very much for this report. it is clear that for me, since the beginning of my mandate, the rights of the child have been, as it were, a top priority, they have been a central point on my agenda and cooperation with this parliament, also in this field, allows us today to have political lines which will be the result of this report - which i hope will be adopted by a very large majority - the lines of action which the commission will follow, because there is not a single point in that report which i do not agree with. these are horizontal initiatives that touch on many policies, but the common denominator is that minors, that is, children, are the heart of our society and therefore clearly deserve our utmost attention. in the next few weeks i shall be assessing, and my offices will be assessing with me, the practical applicability of the specific initiatives, i mean the individual points which are contained in mr angellili's report. i have to say that there are already some actions under way: i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, and also the rapporteur for the report, which has been presented to us, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report. there are a number of initiatives that have been taken: the commission's proposal is to set up a common emergency number, 116 000, which would be a common number throughout europe for a crisis hotline. i take this opportunity to call on the many member states which are still lagging behind in the practical application of this measure not to waste any more time. the call is obviously not to parliament but to the governments of the member states. this decision was taken over a year ago and more than half the member states still have no telephone helplines in operation, although i believe that this decision could have been implemented in a very short time. we discussed last october, together with the presidency in lisbon, the possibility of putting together a european network of early warning systems in the event of kidnapping or disappearance of children. you know that we have taken the good example of the french system, we have seen how it works in belgium, we have noted that portugal and greece are implementing - they will have already implemented in these weeks - systems, but it is clear that a child abductor knows no borders and therefore the warning systems cannot stop at geographical borders. we've done a lot of work on cybercrime against children. we worked with an expert conference last november which produced important technical results for proper cooperation in the interconnection of electronic systems for prevention and response against so-called online paedophilia, which is one of the most terrible threats to children, and you know that thanks to the inclusion in eurojust and europol's 2007 priorities we were able to dismantle numerous international paedophilia networks operating through the internet. we also presented a report last november - which is one of the highlights - a report on the state of implementation of the 2004 framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children. in that report, you will recall, i pointed out that too many member states have still not transposed the 2004 framework decision on the sexual exploitation of children, which was adopted almost four years ago. we have certainly created a useful tool with the european forum. the first experience in germany, under the german presidency, was mainly devoted to the abuse of the internet, to violence in video games. the next european forum on the rights of the child, which will be held under the slovenian presidency, will deal with other issues, one of which, i stress, is intercountry adoption. we will take stock of this and, as mr angelilli has requested, we are looking at a practical way of inviting children, the representatives of minors, to take part directly in the meetings of the european forum. you understand how delicate it is to invite even rather young children to these meetings, but the objective is clear and we will therefore also follow parliament's suggestion. we are developing a european website for children, written and designed in a simple way, which explains, for example, how to look at the many dangers to children's safety in everyday life in a non-aggressive and non-shocking way, but explains how to stay away from, shall we say, dangers. we just talked about it, i mean the agency for fundamental rights: one of my proposals was to put children's rights in the multiannual programme as one of the priority areas for the fundamental rights agency's activities. we still have a lot of things to do. you are right, mrs angelilli, we have to take care of migrant children. this is a subject which we will address specifically in the context of european immigration policy: children are often victims, but they are often the most vulnerable in the larger migration system. we must insist more strongly on the implementation of the european action plan against trafficking in human beings, with particular attention to children, as well as to women, the two most vulnerable groups who are often victims of international trafficking in human beings. we must look at how to finance concrete proposals and projects through european programmes. the new dafne programme, the new fundamental rights programme, for example, can also enable us to give financial support to the european network of ombudsmen for children. it is a network which i attach great importance to and clearly alongside it are those ngos which work in this field. the new programme, known as daphne 3, has been refinanced and can be a particularly useful instrument. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course more than ready, eager to continue developing this political strategy, but also to give very concrete results to our citizens in one of the fields that is particularly close to our hearts.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. - the mr president, the defence of the rights of the child has never been absent from the internal and external policies of the european union, but due to the lack of a legal basis these policies have been fragmented and that is why your proposal, mr vice-president, to draw up a strategy for the protection of the rights of the child, was favourably received by the european parliament and by civil society. we hope that it will be strengthened when the reform treaty comes into force, which will include the charter of fundamental rights as an integral part of it, as the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, has mentioned, and i congratulate her on her synthetic capacity and the presentation of today's report. the possibility of an integrated and coordinated approach to child protection at european level - thanks also to the many interesting proposals from the commission - is necessary to consider the child not as a victim but as the holder of positive rights and obligations, who must grow up in a healthy family environment and have his material and intellectual needs met. not only the design of european actions, but also the political will of the member states must guarantee respect for the rights of the child, with measures that will meet their fundamental needs and protect them from multiple risks. the committee on women's rights and gender equality concentrated its opinion on the issue of supporting mothers and families in the performance of their duties. it called for support for vulnerable groups, i.e. children facing risks of abuse, lack of education, health care, proper nutrition and certain opportunities for growth and development. the possibility of combining the professional and family life of parents is an inalienable right of children, but also a valuable asset and investment for the society of the future. both inside and outside the european union, children's positive rights are often violated and there is still discrimination based on gender. there are racial stereotypes and perceptions that marginalize certain groups of children, especially girls and young mothers. the protection of women, especially during pregnancy and child rearing, must be a prerequisite for children to enjoy their fundamental rights from the beginning of life.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. - the mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs angelilli on her positive work. the strategy on the rights of the child is a positive step towards a coordinated approach in both internal policy and external relations. the committee on employment, whose opinion i have drawn up and present, stresses the social aspects of the violation of the rights of the child. it focuses on child poverty, which affects almost one in five children in the european union. it also stressed the problems of child labour and social exclusion and called for special attention to be paid to vulnerable social groups such as migrant children, street children and children with disabilities. we fear that today's children, mr president, are called upon to live in a world worse than that of previous generations. the european union must therefore act now, with the commitments, objectives and resources required, both at community and member state level.
mr president, our children have an independent personality, they have an inalienable right to the protection of their fundamental rights, which means no humiliating treatment and violence, no inhuman work, no exclusion from education, no poverty, no sexual exploitation and abuse, no child soldiers in war. and children need these universal values more than adults do. first, because they are, by definition, young and vulnerable. second, because the parent or the teacher or the priest or anyone they come in contact with is always in a position of authority toward them, and third, because if something goes wrong in childhood it ends up having a catalytic effect on a child's future life as well. these are the rights we are called upon to defend today. i'll focus on two: first, immigrant children are perhaps the most vulnerable. at least those born among us should immediately acquire citizenship of our countries. not to be stigmatized at birth and of course to go to school regardless of the status of their parents, not to be condemned to social exclusion. second, the protection of children online. both children who often sneak in, surf, chat with strangers, and children of potential victims of sexual exploitation. products of a very profitable enterprise. mr. president, the internet is the new village square. just as parents warn children in the marketplace not to talk to strangers, so children should be educated and made aware that online they need the same kind of attention and advice. europe must contribute to this training and to hotlines for immediate support to parents and children facing such situations.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. i would like to concentrate my remarks on three issues in addition to the others that have been raised in the house. first, violence and abuse against children should be detected and addressed in good time by establishing a specific recording protocol, which will gradually contribute to effective prevention. secondly, the adoption by all member states of the protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, which will, among other things, have to review the issue of granting temporary or non-permanent residence permits on their territory. finally, the issue of effectively tackling the phenomenon of juvenile delinquency, with measures to prevent and integrate juveniles into society, as well as measures of judicial and extrajudicial intervention. mr president, this year is the year of interculturalism and we must preserve the bridges that connect all cultures and all religious beliefs. i think that paragraph 127 of this report could not be accepted.
vice president of the commission. − on the first question, i would like to say that, apart from the study on safe medicines in parallel trade, additional ways to address parallel trade are currently being explored, in particular with respect to pricing initiatives. revision of the transparency directive to include specific information on pricing would also be a possible way forward. but what i try to do is first of all to clarify the situation and to know exactly what is happening. then to analyse the question whether eu legislation is able to change that because the whole issue of pricing and reimbursement of medicines in the european union is under the full responsibility of the member states; we have no powers whatsoever. but it is obvious that we need to cooperate. that is the reason why the pharmafirm pricing and reimbursement is one of our priorities. i am well aware that, for citizens, the fact that the same medicine has completely different prices in different european member states is difficult to understand. it is also difficult for me to understand. the fact that these prices are regulated is only one factor. another factor, of course, is that the pharmaceutical industry is part of the market economy. they are free to set their prices, but we are intensely studying the situation and i think that we will be able to present solutions. to the second question i can say that, yes, it is true: there are different systems in the european union. for instance, certain medicines in some countries can only be sold in pharmacies. in other countries you can buy them in supermarkets. only for prescription drugs is the situation the same overall. these drugs are only available in pharmacies.
member of the commission. - madam president, the commission has so far addressed the issue of carbon dioxide emissions from its activities through the environmental management and control system, better known as emas, whose rules it complies with. as early as 2005, the commission has been implementing emas in 5 of its departments in brussels and 8 of its buildings. in the meantime, there has been a clear decrease in the rate of increase in consumption of, inter alia, electricity by these services, which is undoubtedly positive. however, the commission has not currently set overall co2 reduction targets, but under emas, the commission is studying and analysing its overall co2 emissions and will set overall co2 reduction targets within 2008. in particular, as regards its car fleet, the commission has already set a target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 26% on average between 2006 and 2012.
member of the commission. − yes, i agree with you. we should practise what we preach, and this is what we are going to do in 2008. i expect the commission and its services will target a reduction in emissions to at least the same level as we are requesting of the member states. as you know, we have set a 30% reduction target, provided that other developed countries follow, or a 20% target if they do not sign up to an international agreement on reducing emissions. we will set ourselves the 30% target, and i expect that, in so doing, we will show by example that we mean what we are asking others to do. by the way, we will have to conduct a study to determine the exact quantity of emissions from the commission, before setting targets and a timetable, and also establishing an action plan to combat emissions.
member of the commission. − i did not fully understand that your question was for me personally. usually i do not like to say what i am doing, but i can tell you that in brussels, for example, i do not have a car – i do not drive a car; i prefer, over the weekend, to walk around, and this is also good for health. regarding my official car, i did the following thing, because i expected questions like this: i asked wwf, who have 10 sustainable top projects, to recommend me a car which is the most sustainable, and they recommended one for me and this is what i am using for my services. by the way, it is quite within the limits that we have asked the automobile industry to achieve by 2012. then, in greece, since i was a member of parliament there, i have had a very small car, even smaller than what i have for the service here, and i drive it very rarely. now, again i would not like to tell you, but travelling to bali i offset my going there by purchasing from one of those schemes – i think it was the allowances from the emissions trading system – and these are then cancelled. so i try to do as much as i can, and if you have anything more to tell me, i shall be very glad to follow your advice. now, regarding renewables: this is a big discussion. we should do what we decided at the beginning of the previous year – in march 2007 – and achieve the 20% targets for all the member states. regarding the buildings and the services of the commission, we should try to use renewables as much as we can, because the main source of emissions from the commission is from the buildings. almost three quarters come from the buildings, so if we can find ways to use renewable energy for our services, that will be very good; but this has to be studied in the action plan that i told you about before.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is concerned about privacy and security problems in the information society, in particular when these put consumers at risk. the use of spam, spyware and malicious software is in clear breach of the european privacy legislation, and in some cases it is even a criminal offence. this is why we need vigorous enforcement by competent authorities. last december, commissioner reding (whom i have the pleasure to replace here) welcomed the fast and effective intervention by the dutch regulator, which imposed a fine totalling eur 1 million on three dutch enterprises for illegally installing ‘spyware’ and ‘adware’ on more than 22 million computers in the netherlands and elsewhere. she has called upon other regulators to follow this example. on 13 november 2007 the commission adopted its proposals on the telecom reform, which include provisions that further strengthen the security and privacy regime underpinning the information society. in relation to spam, the proposals introduced the possibility for internet service providers to take legal action against spammers. this provision is expected to become an important tool in the fight against spam in europe. also, the effectiveness of anti-spam enforcement will be strengthened by including this in the scope of the regulation on consumer protection cooperation, which provides for a network of public enforcement authorities throughout the community and a minimum level of investigation and enforcement powers to apply this regulation effectively. more generally, the proposals include the provision for customers of electronic communication services to be informed of possible actions that a service provider may take to address security threats, or in response to a security or integrity incident. by introducing the concept of breach notifications, users of electronic communication services would be told about breaches of security when this has resulted in personal data being lost or compromised, and about precautions that they may take in order to minimise the economic loss or social harm that could result from a security breach. to ensure compliance with these requirements, national regulatory authorities will be given the power to issue binding instructions to operators on the measures that are required to secure electronic communication networks and services and to oversee proper implementation. the proposed european electronic communications market authority will have as one of its core tasks network and information security and will assist the commission in implementing measures on a european level where appropriate.
vice-president of the commission. − i could not agree more. i have already said that proposals are in place and are currently under consideration by parliament and the council. i expect these to enter into force, and we will then have all the necessary requirements in place. the current legal situation allows action to be taken against such violations, although this depends on the case. in the case of a criminal offence, people can ask for the support of the police, or can take other legal action. as i have already mentioned, the example set by the dutch regulator opta has been welcomed by the commission in a press release. i have the full text here. if you wish, i can hand it to you after question time so you can read what we have already done.
madam president, commissioner reding is not present, but i am sure that the vice-president of the commission, mr verheugen, has sufficient knowledge to answer a supplementary question, namely whether the commission has any evidence or indications linking the origin of unsolicited e-mails, spam, to the companies offering services and products to protect against such unwanted interference.
vice-president of the commission. − that is quite an interesting combination. on the first question, unfortunately the commission is not in possession of these data, because the regulatory authorities belong to the member states. but i will inform commissioner reding about the question and perhaps, in contact with member states, we can find a solution. on a personal basis i can only say that i find the idea behind your question absolutely reasonable, and i think we should try to find a way to bring that together. on the second question, it even relates to an issue that we have not discussed this evening, the question of information to patients. we have three issues here: the abuse of electronic communication systems; we have the problem of information to patients, which is very often misleading; and we have the problem of counterfeited and parallel trade. i did not say that in my answer to the question on counterfeit medicines and parallel trade, so i can add it here. we are also working on a proposal to get a clear framework for information for patients and experiencing exactly the problem that you have mentioned, namely that the existing regulations and existing restrictions which we have are, so to speak, overruled by the use of the internet. this is important for us – and this is the reason why we are studying the whole problem and why we will produce a proposal on how information for patients in the european union should be organised, although we know that it is extremely difficult. but i have to say that, for the time being, we have regulations in place. for instance, advertising for prescribed drugs is not allowed. if that happens via the internet it is, of course, a breach of the existing rules, and member states have not only the right but, in my view, they have the obligation to do something against that. so the answer to your question is yes. the commission is aware that such a problem exists, and in our forthcoming proposals we will try to address that issue. i have to introduce a caveat here: the use of the internet is something that you cannot control. this is exactly the problem that we have and we will try to find the best possible solution.
member of the commission. − the first results of the product safety stocktaking were released on 22 november 2007. these indicate that the regulatory framework is fit for the purpose, if properly applied and when properly applied. the rapex system is working efficiently to ensure that dangerous products are recalled from the market throughout the european union. the stocktaking report nonetheless identifies scope for improvements, both in preventive actions and in international cooperation, such as enhanced enforcement. some envisaged improvements are already at an advanced stage towards becoming concrete actions, notably as concerns the revision of the toy safety directive. the commission is also in the process of preparing a temporary measure requiring warnings on magnetic toys, pending revision of the standards, to address the risk those toys could pose. the commission is assisting the member states’ market surveillance authorities to identify and share best practices with a view to improved controls. in october 2007, member states reported on initiatives for better cooperation with economic operators and on specific surveillance campaigns on toys. the commission intends to publish comparative enforcement capacity data in the consumer scoreboard for 2008, in what is a new and, i hope, very helpful initiative. the commission also continues to concretely reinforce the market surveillance capacity of the member states by participating in the financing of well-designed joint market surveillance projects. those projects received eur 1.3 million in community funding in 2007. in addition to actions to improve protection within the eu, various actions are under way to strengthen protection at borders. recent major changes to eu customs legislation will assist in identifying high risk consignments for controls. secure customs exchange mechanisms will also enable rapid action to be taken when information becomes available on new types of dangerous products. information available in the rapex system will be distributed using this mechanism, in order to alert the competent customs authorities of specific, potentially dangerous cargos. the commission also agrees that traceability is an issue for further improvements. statistics show that products of unknown origin notified through rapex were, for the first time, down to 3% in october 2007, as compared to 17% in 2006. the commission is currently analysing, with the help of the member states, how to ensure that this improvement is not only temporary, and how to make it sustainable. the commission has already included, in the legislation under the internal market for goods package, a provision requiring economic operators to have available the identity of their supplier. this should be helpful for market surveillance intervention once that legislation enters into force. the commission has also asked what china could do about traceability, and welcomes the initiatives taken in china to require bar coding, at factory level, of certain categories of high risk products. finally, the commission has highlighted the responsibility of the economic operators concerned, and welcomes the commitment from industry to work on measures to build consumer confidence, in particular through what we are calling a ‘safety pact’. the commission will also send experts to carry out a study of business safety measures in the supply chain, and will report further on this in the first quarter of 2008.
member of the commission. − i think that your question is absolutely valid and very humane. we have to pursue our goal: these dangerous toys must not reach not just the european market, which is our duty, but any market, and we have some well-developed tools to help us. we can conduct a market surveillance, we have controls and our rapex system, which is a system through which we can get information through the market and not only when the dangerous goods are stopped at our borders. however, what is also important for us as a global leader in the safety process is not to allow these dangerous goods – especially toys – to reach other children – in china as well. it is not enough just to preach for the safety of european kids, which is part of our duty. i have asked the main producers several times openly and clearly to destroy the toys and i have also invited them to the commission in brussels, where we discussed how to ensure that the toys are destroyed. they all committed to this. in particular, i urged mattel, as the major industry with more recalls than any other, to comply, and it has agreed to this obligation. it is not legally binding: i cannot make them destroy their factories. but i think we are facing a time when the legislative framework is just a framework and there are things that are beyond and outside the framework. we need to vigorously pursue measures that are above the absolutely necessary from a legislative point of view. i had an opportunity to discuss this issue with unicef and the americans during the tacd dialogue. i am fully aware of your concerns and, believe me, i will not spare efforts to make it public and to pursue the goal of destroying these toys. nevertheless, i do not have a legislative base outside europe.
member of the commission. − if you do not mind, i will start with the second question, because i have a more certain legislative base on which to answer you. the commission has already included, in the internal market for goods package, legislation containing a provision requiring economic operators to have available the identity of their supplier. this will help to enhance the identification of the good and to have a clear label as to who the producer is, for one thing, and also who the supplier is. the global chain is becoming longer and longer, and there is no longer any item which we can be absolutely certain has been produced only in one country. i understand your question, but think that we also need to raise awareness and make parents more vigilant, because rogue traders will always exist. we need to raise awareness as regards checking the retailer and only buying from a responsible retailer, and also as regards checking the labels on the product. while nobody can remove that responsibility from our shoulders as consumers, i believe that your point is absolutely valid, and i agree that, not only the manufacturer’s name, but also specific information should be shown on the label, especially in the case of toys. this question is perhaps linked with the first one on what we can do about falsification – if i have understood your question correctly. if the good is a fake good, that is one thing. we need to tackle fake goods through intellectual property rights, and also through our custom activities. i have to tell you that our customs authorities have raised the frequency of their checks three times higher than the world norm. the advice from the world custom unions is to check 3% of goods at borders and ports, and in europe we check 10%. i also think it would be a good idea to enhance our research and development to make surveillance and checks at the borders even tighter, with better technical devices to conduct screenings and other important innovations that can be introduced at the borders for goods coming onto our markets. i would like also to point out that even if the good is not counterfeit, and clearly shows the ‘ce’ mark, this will not mean that the good necessarily conforms to all the requirements within the framework of this directive. we also need to keep, additionally, to these new approach directives, which set out requirements on how a good is produced, and to ensure constant market surveillance from the point of view of safety, because sometimes safety is even more important, or at least equally important, and does not always coincide with the manner in which the good is produced. it might be, for example, as in the case of the problem with magnets in toys, to which we are responding, that when we see that the situation has changed we need to respond and take measures on the basis of safety, and not just on the basis of the requirements we have asked the producer to fulfil. if we combine the two sets of requirements – on the producer and on the good once the market – then we will have better-protected consumers.
member of the commission. − i know that this question is very important, and i would like to assure you that the commission does not monitor shops during periods of higher consumption, nor does it collaborate with the national consumer organisations on this specific question. so we very much rely on national efforts. however, the commission does intend to improve its tools for monitoring the functioning of the internal market from a consumer perspective. the single market review set out the commission’s plans for a consumer scoreboard and for more detailed price monitoring, but i would like especially to stress that this is about monitoring. published eurostat data show that prices of milk, cheese and eggs in greece are 38% higher than the average prices of the same group for the european union. the average prices for this product group over the period 1996-2007 grew by almost 52% in greece and only by 24% in the eu. however, this development appears to be structural rather than seasonal. since 2005 the prices of dairy products for greece do not appear to reveal seasonal fluctuations.
madam president, thank you very much to the commissioner, and thank you very much for the evidence. i shall also look up eurostat to see the whole picture, because it is of course worthwhile and important for my country - which you mentioned above - but i believe that there are similar cases in other countries and it would therefore be interesting to see how your commission will deal with this issue in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. − what we have been attempting to do here in financial education is to get this on the agenda and to make everybody aware, particularly in member states, that it would probably be a better investment than in lots of other areas if, from a very early stage in the school curriculum, some basic financial literacy was taught. because, going through life, whether one ends up as the chief financial controller of a major institution or whether one has a very ordinary job in one’s local area, you are definitely going to encounter – at some stage you are going to have to deal with – some major financial transaction such as the buying of a car, a house, a washing machine or whatever. i think that from an early stage it would be far better if people had a little bit taught to them in the school curriculum programme so that they would know some basic information. what ms harkin was speaking about goes on to a higher level as to what type of information should be given to a consumer, because she is correct: the amount of information that is given to them and the 48 pages that they get to read in very small writing is there for the sole purpose, in my view (and it has always been my view), of satisfying lawyers, so that if there is a case, they can charge bigger and bigger fees for telling you that you have either won or lost. i have absolutely no faith in that at all. some of that particular area is directly under my own responsibility. i often recall a particular case when i was in scotland about two years or so ago, meeting with some of the financial educators who were talking about the perspectives directive in the ucits area. they said there were 81 pages in the perspectives directive and 78 pages in the simplified perspectives to do with a particular product. so, in the consumer credit directive, which i think is being dealt with at present in parliament, ms kuneva will make some improvements as to what type of basic information consumers should be given. ms kuneva is dealing with those particular aspects. but in the whole area of financial education, the place where i have been trying to up the agenda is for member states to include, from an early stage, some basic financial education as part of the core curriculum programme. i think everybody would be far better off doing it like that than having pages and pages of small type that no one ever reads.
member of the commission. − the first question relates to the regulated market and i think the questioner extrapolates from the recent difficulties – the difficulties of the past eight months or so – in the financial markets and relates this to the question of ms harkin. i do not think that there is necessarily a correlation there, but in all the studies and work that various bodies are doing, including us in the commission, perhaps there would be a role for financial education. i think the origins of the problems that created the financial turmoil come from irresponsible lending in a certain part of the world. that was the origins of the problem, but we are a long way down the road from that and it is the contagion effect that spread it to other areas. but the origins of the problem, in my view, probably relate to irresponsible lending by particular institutions. regarding ms mcguinness’s question: education is a member state competence and i would not see any difficulty in, say, a member state, including the one we know best, taking up her suggestion. it would seem to be a reasonable idea that could be pursued at that particular level. regarding the equitable life question, yes i did support it. we are waiting for further information. as far as i know, the report of the uk ombudsman is still the only real source for redress and that particular report is still outstanding. i will ask my commission officials if they have any later news as to when that uk report is likely to be published. if i remember correctly this time last year it was hoped to have been reported by the end of 2007, i think november 2007; that has come and gone and maybe we might find some more information about it, but that is really going to be the next big date in that area.
member of the commission. − the commission does not keep consolidated records of the number of european investment firms or the number of investment firms in greece. however, member states are required by mifid to keep a record of all investment firms registered within their territory. the hellenic capital market commission should therefore be able to supply the data for greek companies. with mifid, the trading monopolies for exchanges have been abolished, investment firms have better access to providing their services across the european economic area using the mifid passport and consumer protection has been strengthened. this leads to increased competition across borders and between trading venues, which will in turn increase liquidity and the depth of the financial markets, for the benefit of both the industry and consumers. our expectation that cost of capital would decline is based on a rigorous study carried out by london economics in 2002. this study modelled the impact of financial integration, of which mifid is the cornerstone, in terms of its impact on the then eu-15. the main conclusions from the study were that financial integration would lead to a reduction in the cost of equity capital of an average of 50 basis points across the member states, and a reduction in the cost of market debt for non-financial issuers of 40 basis points. the study estimated that the combined effects of financial market integration to the eu economy would result in the following: an increase of eu-wide real gdp of 1.1% in the long run; an increase of 6% of the total business investment; an increase in private consumption of 0.8%; and an increase of 0.5% in total employment. figures compiled informally by the committee of european securities regulators in the run-up to the implementation of mifid suggest that only very limited numbers of firms were at that time making use of the passport for investment services under the then investment services directive into or out of greece. we expect this to change in the future as greek markets open up as a result of mifid, and as greek firms see more opportunities in other member states. the federation of european securities exchanges keeps statistics on foreign equity trading, as well as on the percentage of shares owned by investors. as of december 2005, 41% of the shares traded on the athens exchange were held by foreign investors. in november 2007, the foreign equity trading turnover on the athens exchange was eur 970 million.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would like to ask whether the commission has any data on the volume of financial intermediation in the european union, and in particular what percentage of european gdp is occupied by this financial intermediation.
member of the commission. − i do not have that information available to me. i am not certain whether my services have it either, but i will ask. if they have it, we will certainly forward it to the member.
member of the commission. − the commission sent a letter of formal notice to the irish authorities following a complaint on 29 june 2007. this letter requested information on restrictive conditions set out in a number of irish county development plans. the commission raised questions regarding the compatibility of certain requirements to obtain building permission with two principles of the treaty, namely the freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital. indirectly, such restrictions could also affect the free movement of workers, but this issue was not raised. following an agreed extension of one month to respond, the irish authorities sent their response at the end of september. my services have been examining its content and are planning to contact the irish authorities in order to hold a meeting at a technical level to further clarify and discuss the position of the irish authorities. following these discussions, the commission will be in a position to assess whether or not there are grounds to pursue this infringement procedure.
member of the commission. − it is not our practice to make responses available to the public, but then again those responses often end up in the public domain. i can confirm that we received a response on 28 september 2007, as the honourable member has stated. as i said in my reply, we intend to have a meeting with the irish authorities about this matter. we will see how we proceed from there. i should point out, also, that ireland is not the only member state where there are difficulties like this. my services are hoping to meet the irish authorities in the very near future, and we will then have to consider what they say and take further steps, if these are required.
member of the commission. − that is a very good question, mr crowley, but when the commission receives a complaint, we are duty bound to act upon it and have an investigation. the complaint concerns the free movement that i have spoken about under articles 43 and 56 of the treaty and this is what it relates to. therefore, we are legally bound to investigate such matters when they appear to conflict with basic tenets of the treaties. that is what we have to do in this particular instance. as i said in response to your colleague, mr burke, there are other complaints in other member states which have a similar type of restrictions and these have to be pursued also.
member of the commission. − on 17 november, the commission sent a reasoned opinion requesting that ireland abolish the exemption in place for the irish voluntary health insurance (vhi) from certain eu rules. these rules, notably the first non-life insurance directive of 1973, as subsequently amended, aim at harmonising certain requirements for the commencement and conduct of direct non-life insurance business, and therefore also pertain to private health insurance. the first non-life insurance directive exempted the vhi, among other institutions, from its rules. however, this exemption is applicable only as long as the capacity of the exempted institution is not in any way amended by a change of its statutes or by any change in the relevant national law. accordingly, upon extension or change of capacity, the institution becomes subject to the full set of rules of community law which otherwise apply to non-life insurance. these rules, for example, require insurance undertakings to seek official authorisation before taking up their business; to adopt a certain legal form; and to establish adequate protective provisions which have to be sufficiently matched by the undertaking’s assets in order to retain an adequate solvency margin. one of the main objectives of these provisions is to protect the rights of those who have subscribed to an insurance policy, thereby making sure that the exercise of freedom to provide services is not to the detriment of consumer protection. in addition, these rules guarantee a level playing field between insurers. given its initial exemption from the first directive, and as long as its capacity remained unchanged, the vhi did not have to comply with these rules. the commission, however, takes the view that the vhi’s capacity has indeed changed. several amendments to the relevant irish law in 1996, 1998 and 2001 extended the vhi’s scope of business far beyond what it was when the vhi’s exemption was first granted. therefore, vhi’s initial exemption from the eu’s rules for insurers is no longer applicable. the commission expressed this view in the reasoned opinion that was sent to ireland on 14 november. it has asked ireland to take, within two months, the necessary steps to subject the vhi to those supervisory and prudential rules of community law for which it formerly enjoyed the exemption. the commission considers that this reasoned opinion is a decisive step towards putting all competitors in the irish private health insurance market on an equal footing under european insurance legislation. this serves the interests of policyholders as well as of fair competition. the commission will closely monitor the steps taken by the irish government and will, failing appropriate action, pursue legal proceedings before the european court of justice.
member of the commission. − a reasoned opinion was sent to ireland on 14 november 2007. ireland has two months to reply, which happens to be 14 january, which was yesterday. i understand that the reply was received yesterday evening. that reply is being studied by the commission. it is also necessary to point out that, as a result of correspondence that we had with the irish department of health and the correspondence i had with the irish minister for health over the past year, there was a proposed bill before the houses of the oireachtas before the election last may. that, of course, as irish members will know, fell when the election was called. we do not have institutional continuity in ireland – which is a good thing, i think – but it was restored to the order paper when the new government came into being. we have already suggested to the irish authorities that some amendments to the bill as published are being considered. so we will study the reply received yesterday evening (which i have not seen, but i understand it was received) and we will see what further changes have been proposed there. dependent upon that, we will proceed to the next stage, or whatever. but mr mitchell’s second question is very relevant. he said, has this any relevance to the risk equalisation debate? the answer is no. this is in the other areas for which i am directly responsible, like the life insurance directive, which relates to solvency, and these matters which are in the public domain. mr mitchell is correct in saying that the vhi has about 75% of the market, in fact i think the figure is now 76% of the market. i understand that they have an even greater share of the market now than they had. they have gained a greater share and have gained a lot of extra people over the past year to 18 months or so, than they had previously. that is a fact. he is well-briefed on the matter. but my difficulty is to do with the non-life insurance directive and not with the rate of risk equalisation. but for completeness – as you would be aware, mr mitchell – there is a separate court action which is to be called before the court in luxembourg and taken by one of the competitors in the irish market. that is before the court of justice, and i would assume that some time, maybe later this year, a decision on that will be given.
member of the commission. − the commission uses all the instruments available to ensure the effective enforcement of consumer rights across europe. a new consumer-enforcement network was established at the end of 2006 in the regulation on consumer protection cooperation. it provides a framework for joint market surveillance and enforcement exercises, such as the sweep on air ticket sales sites, carried out in september 2007. that was the first ever exercise of its type. the commission coordinated this exercise, and provided the results of the first phase of the investigation in november 2007. at this stage, the disclosure of the names of the sites on which certain irregularities were detected, as suggested by the honourable member, would be premature and would not respect the legal framework in certain member states. i quite understand your impatience, because we would all like to get things done, and in the right way. however, the right of reply, which means the right to defend oneself, is recognised across the eu member states. it is the competence of the national authorities and courts to apply that right, and we are awaiting the outcome of court decisions in some countries. the commission will, therefore, present the outcome of the investigations and enforcement actions presently ongoing in the member states once those proceedings have been completed. i have held talks with the authorities on the basis of the consumer enforcement network, and they are committed to going further and to providing this data, but court procedures – in at least two countries – prevent us from having a full picture and from announcing it publicly.
member of the commission. − cases like this one were the main reason to step up and to have this enforcement action. but i must reiterate: in many member states it is only possible to publish the names of the airlines after the investigations and enforcement actions are finished. since cases differ, the time needed to deal with them can take longer in some cases than in others. currently the commission is discussing with member states how much time is needed to finish these actions and the commission will publish – i already have this commitment – these names as soon as it is legally possible, otherwise the commission could be sued. if member states can close the cases as originally foreseen, the names can be published in the coming months. initially i thought that we would be able to do it in february, but after more detailed discussions, comparing the legal system and how much time it takes from the legal point of view, i believe there may be a delay of one and a half months. but i think that you are absolutely right and, if you allow me, i will use your case as one more reason for the need to step up. we have, since the beginning of this year, unfair commercial practices and while trying not to go too much into cases, i think this is a good example of a breach of the unfair commercial practices legislation as well.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. in your reply you said that within a reasonable time, about two months, we would have the names or the results of your investigation. then i saw in an interview that you mentioned four months. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter, and whether he has not made a statement on the matter, and i would like to ask him whether he has not made a statement on the matter, and if he has not made a statement on the matter, i would ask him to make a statement on the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think it would be good to give the names soon, so that public opinion and competition between small and large companies can be calmed down.
in writing. the 'community strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work' fails to address the real cause of accidents and covers capital adequacy. the measures proposed are piecemeal, limited to dealing with the current criminal reality at the expense of the working class and workers in general. workplace accidents are the heavy price paid by the working class in the context of barbaric capitalist development for the increase of capital's profits. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the eu, true to its anti-working class lisbon strategy, is shifting the burden of responsibility to workers and is stepping up privatisation of the health and safety sector, proposing access to private external services, undermining the role of public oversight mechanisms and silencing the responsibilities of companies.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. it is also the first of the 12 new countries to take up the presidency, so its responsibility is even greater. the programme of the slovenian presidency certainly contains valuable elements. i personally think, however, that more emphasis should be placed on the effort to improve public understanding and acceptance of both the reform treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. the slovenian presidency supports the accession perspective for the western balkans. this is also the position of my delegation, but it must be borne in mind - as the past has taught us - that setting an early date for the opening of accession negotiations can lead to a deadlock. it is also important to note, and we must take this seriously, that the great majority of european public opinion is extremely wary of any further enlargement, a fact which we cannot ignore. we must all be particularly careful on the kosovo issue. we must realize that a power game is being played in the region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and in this game kosovo has become the ping-pong ball. at the recent summit, european leaders did not reach a decision on whether to recognize a unilateral independence of kosovo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the annual eu budget is approaching consumer and housing loans (€95 billion) in greece, where consumer credit is growing at the fastest rate in the eurozone, a sign of growing poverty. borrowers are 2 million households, of which 3 to 4 percent are unable to service their debt. in most cases, the debt exceeds 40% of income, resulting in continuous seizures. the same applies to small and mediumsized enterprises which are forced to resort to borrowing. the banks are robbing the banks of huge profits from high borrowing rates and low deposit rates, illegal and irregular holdings and expenses, misleading advertising, etc., leading to over-indebtedness of employees. the eu supports financial institutions by ensuring profits, but also by mitigating the effects of its anti-people policy, which limits the purchasing power of workers and degrades their quality of life. the proposed directive safeguards the principle of freedom of contract, despite unequal bargaining power. it strengthens financial capital by shifting responsibilities to the consumer. it guarantees compensation for amounts paid in advance, promotes the harmonization of legislation and the opening up of national markets in the field of consumer credit, and is deliberately complex and incomprehensible to borrowers. the kke meps are opposed to the strengthening of financial capital and are fighting for a genuine people's economy for the benefit of the workers.
in writing. the report, which is a multi-page document full of literary descriptions, attempts to hide the responsibility of the eu and its member states for their barbaric policy, which has resulted in the inhumane conditions experienced by children and parents of ordinary families. it is a monument of hypocrisy that the eu is concerned about children's rights, at the same time as its policy crushes workers through unemployment, parttime work, the fall in living standards, the privatisation of health, education, the commercialisation of sport and culture. the moral messages against violence against children, child pornography and so on cannot hide the fact that the system - which has as its supreme value the profit of capital - is the one that treats even children as a source of profit. it commercializes adoption, it pushes child labor, it pushes prostitution, it pushes the trade in organs. it is a challenge for the eu's champions to speak out for children's rights when eu-nato planes have even bombed the belgrade maternity clinic. when euro-asian troops are murdering thousands of children in afghanistan, iraq and elsewhere. when they condemn to death, by hunger and disease, hundreds of thousands of children in africa, asia, all over the planet, crimes that the report of course does not mention.
madam president, the commission's proposal for a european police force aims to transform europol from an institution under an international convention into an institution of the european union. this, in my view, signals the intensification of europol's repressive function, the strengthening of the european union's overall repressive framework and mechanisms. two things are developing rapidly in the european union: corporate and capital profits and aggressive and repressive mechanisms. we have established police and law enforcement agencies in all countries and now this is happening at the level of the european union. this development also extends europol's field of action to include all criminal offences. it is given the right to intervene even within the member states themselves in relation to major international events with consequences for public order, e.g. international demonstrations. at the same time as a huge surveillance system sis ii, vis, etc., the europol information system will be "wrapped" with the personal data of workers throughout the european union, including those concerning political, trade union and social action and beliefs, and will be exchanged between security and intelligence services, not only of the european union states, but also with private individuals, like the private killers in iraq. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why would you do that? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the fight against fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why we're so radically opposed.
madam president, as a member of the committee on budgets and as a member from a region on the external borders of the european union, i would like to make three comments: firstly, the publicising of europol requires that we no longer have value for money for its work. we want this community europol to be more present where we need it, in the balkans, against the organised mafias, not in the living rooms or in the offices. secondly, within this community europol, the national police authorities must gradually overcome their mistrust of each other. the police authorities of the member states must learn to cooperate across borders and national priorities. the communication from europol paves the way for this. thirdly, and more importantly, we have devoted a great deal of time to the institutional aspect of this dossier. i would like to give my full support to the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, who has chosen the practical and realistic solution. we cannot paralyse the whole process until 2009 and expect the perfect institutional solution, nor can we have theological discussions when the problems are pressing us. the time for action is now and we must act now. in this context, i therefore express my full support for the direction taken by the rapporteur and hope that this debate will be the first step towards the birth of a genuine european police force, a community police force, which will combat the problems.
madam president, once again we must welcome the development of this great police force called europol. we've been doing it since 1992. it has left no poor record of efficiency. the new form we are trying to give, i have the impression that it will create problems, thinking that i will see british people acting in paris and greek policemen in berlin. we shall see how we can get around this, but it is a problem, a problem of distrust between police authorities. i welcome the very diligent work of mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the threat of terrorism.
the chairman of the council. − rising energy prices, especially fuel and food, are a global problem, and in this context, of course, also for the european union. they are very likely to affect the relations between the participants in the wto negotiations and, in this respect, may also affect adaptation, that is, the adjustment of certain positions. at this stage, from the perspective of the slovenian presidency, it is difficult to speculate on what these effects will be, but they are very likely and to be expected. the slovak presidency is not planning any initiatives of its own, but we will support, examine and support the relevant initiatives that will come from the commission, which is of course responsible for the operational management of this process. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international organisations, including the united nations, the world trade organisation and the united nations high commissioner for refugees. we will continue to work to make that happen. in this context, we will of course also address the question of the trade agreement with the mercosur countries, which will also be the subject of discussions on the sidelines of the summit between the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean. we are planning a special meeting between the eu troika and the mercosur countries in may, on the sidelines of the eu-lac summit in lima, peru.
the chairman of the council. − the european union should make the decisive contribution of european exchanges of good practice, given that it is the member states that are responsible for developing an appropriate and sustainable family policy. these can strengthen social cohesion and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy, among others. the presidency therefore considers the family alliance to be a very useful forum for the exchange of views and good practice, as mentioned. the presidency also expresses the belief that this family alliance reflects the commitment of the european union and its member states to address issues related to family-friendly policies in the light of demographic change. the union enables member states to exchange knowledge and experience and thus help each other to find appropriate policy responses. in this context, the presidency considers that there is no need to create new structures at european level, but that we are mainly committed to exploiting existing instruments and structures. last may, the council adopted a wide-ranging decision on the functioning of the family unit in practice. these decisions were drawn up by the council together with the representatives of the member states, taking into account the important role played by the member states in this field. the council reaffirmed its commitment to the alliance for families in its conclusions on the balanced role of women and men, recently adopted on 5 december 2007.
mr president, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency for its reply and would like to ask further what specific exchanges of technological experience it has seen to date and who is responsible for the management of these technical assistance measures.
the chairman of the council. - no, i don't think we are currently considering a specific proposal that would go directly towards protecting the interests of the category of persons you mention, but your question also encourages us to think about whether this might not also be one of the areas. we are prepared to consider this as a presidency.
the chairman of the council. - in answering this question, i will focus on the energy aspects, because that is how we understood the question. the european council adopted an energy policy for europe in march 2006. the three main policy objectives of this policy are: first, to increase security of supply, to ensure the competitiveness of european economies and the availability of affordable energy supplies, and third, to promote environmental sustainability and to address climate change. in line with these three policy objectives, the council, within the framework of the external dimension of energy policy, works closely with third countries in implementing and further developing its energy programme. international energy policy is also one of the priority areas identified by the european council in its conclusions of march 2007. the european council stressed in this context the need to make full use of existing instruments to strengthen the european union's bilateral cooperation with all suppliers. as regards the western balkans, the main existing instrument in the field of energy cooperation is the energy community treaty. the aim of this agreement is to extend the energy market already existing in the european community to the countries of this region, i.e. the countries of the western balkans. in addition, any stabilisation and association agreement concluded by the european union with the western balkan countries provides for close cooperation in the field of energy. the council also seeks to make full use of the existing instruments of the european neighbourhood policy. in short, in developing new energy initiatives, in the context of the european union's relations with third countries, we are seeking to make full use of existing mechanisms, both with regard to the western balkan countries, where i mentioned the energy community treaty, and with regard to existing mechanisms available to us under the european neighbourhood policy.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. we're going to discuss the south caucasus and the black sea today. i would like to ask the presidency whether it intends to give priority to the institutionalisation of interregional cooperation between the european union and the organisation for economic cooperation and development, and in particular whether this cooperation is to be intensified in the energy sector, a sector which is of vital importance for southern europe.
the chairman of the council. - thank you to mr. posselt for his support since the days of our independence. slovenia has indeed come a long way, as the president of the european council said this morning. about your question - it's basically a bilateral name issue. but we all know that to resolve this, basically bilateral issue, there is a mechanism in place, a mechanism under the auspices of the united nations, with a special representative, mr. nimet, who is trying to mediate between the two sides to bring about a solution. slovenia, the slovenian presidency supports these efforts and expects both sides to cooperate constructively in this process until an appropriate solution is found. in the meantime, however, this issue should not, in our view, affect, and in particular should not hinder, the integration of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia into international organisations.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr doyle, for that additional question. we, the slovenian presidency, rank the countries in the western balkan region according to the stage they have reached. and in this case - except for croatia, which is in the other category, the enlargement category, because it's already negotiating membership - the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has come the furthest in the western balkans region by being the only country that has been granted candidate status. i repeat, we would like, and the slovenian presidency has made this one of the highest priorities of the presidency, we would like the progress of each of the countries, including those mentioned, during our presidency on their path towards membership of the european union, which will not come soon, in a year or two, but will take longer and more effort. however, it is important to maintain the european perspective of these countries and to maintain the pace of their progress towards this goal, and we would, i repeat, as the presidency, be very pleased if such progress were to continue during our presidency. but i also reiterate that this also depends on the countries of the region, or more specifically, on the countries of the region.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the slovenian presidency representative on his very careful reply and i would like to say as a greek mep that we are particularly interested in all the western balkans becoming members of the european union as soon as possible. but the problem must be solved. i would also like to say that greece has shown its good will and shows it every day by discussing a compromise name. in this sense, i would say that the position of a member state which is very willing to do this should be taken into account.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for that comment. the president of the european council himself mentioned this morning the important achievement of the greek presidency in 2003 when the thessaloniki agenda for the western balkans was adopted. this thessaloniki agenda also remains the foundation for our efforts, for the efforts of the slovenian presidency in the efforts to integrate the countries of the western balkans. we therefore particularly count on the support of greece in this endeavour vis-à-vis all the western balkan countries.
the chairman of the council. − as is known, at its meeting on 4 december 2007 the council decided to hold a debate on the economic impact of the use of reduced rates and whether reduced vat rates are an appropriate instrument for achieving sectoral policy objectives. it was agreed that this issue would be reviewed in 2008, not necessarily in the first half, but in 2008. the slovenian presidency is currently intensively seeking the most effective approach to continue the debate on non-general vat rates. as is well known, this debate was launched during the portuguese presidency on the basis of a commission communication. in this period of reflection, which i hope will be as short as possible, we cannot give a more precise answer to the question put by the honourable member for the caucus, mr vakalis. i would just like to emphasise that this is an important issue which the presidency is dealing with with due attention.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis in the balkans.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. the rest is fiction. unfortunately, the enlargement of nato to include countries in the region, the imminent accession of ukraine and georgia, is another factor destabilising the region. another factor of instability is the presence of foreign bases and troops in sensitive and key locations, which give the impression of serious military preparation for new conflicts. the recent news that 3,000 american troops are expected to be stationed in the burgas region of bulgaria, where the burgas-alexandroupoli oil pipeline will be launched, confirms all of this and is causing enormous concern. equally worrying is information about preparations for a permanent presence of foreign naval forces in the black sea and the caspian sea by non-caspian countries such as the united states of america. the forthcoming independence of kosovo, commissioner, which is supported by the united states and the european union, will open the floodgates to a number of similar issues in the region we are discussing: abkhazia, south ossetia, crimea, transnistria, nagorno-karabakh and other existing or constructed by various, minority issues. the two-meter, two-station policy you're pursuing will blow up the region and cause new bloodshed. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union is only interested in finding ways of penetrating the region and that is why it is proposed to organize a 'three-on-three' conference on security and cooperation in the south caucasus, involving three south caucasus states, the european union, the united states and russia. it is a proposal to legitimize the presence of the united states of america. we believe that you have no right to involve the peoples of europe in adventurous projects which will serve the interests of the multinationals who hoard and want to extract greater profits from the extraction of oil.
the community's role in the middle east is to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and political relations with the countries of the region, to help them to develop their economic and political relations with the countries of the region, and to help them to develop their economic and political relations with the countries of the region. it is more a meeting place of europe and asia. a place of creative expression, of different cultures, of different national identities and religions. the oecd is called upon to play an important role in consolidating peace, stability and prosperity in regions facing major challenges, such as the balkans and the caucasus, and in creating a euro-asian economic area. the geostrategic and economic importance of the fast-developing region of the equinox is undeniable. the development of maritime links and road transport and corridors, as well as cooperation in the energy sector, while promoting sustainable development, are of particular importance. relations between the union and the near east have been given a new impetus by the communication from the near east cooperation committee, signed by commissioner ferrero-waldner. i believe, however, that a broad, coherent strategic approach to the region is needed. i also support the institutionalisation of interparliamentary cooperation between the european parliament and the oecd parliamentary assembly. finally, i should like to point out the very constructive role that my country, greece, is playing, as a member state of the union and of the oecd, in strengthening cooperation both within the oecd and at interregional level through the union. i would like to conclude by congratulating the two rapporteurs, in particular mrs anastase, but also the commissioner for her creative contribution to highlighting the common priorities between the two bodies. i think, however, that you should take even greater courage, commissioner, in establishing institutionalised interregional cooperation between the union and the equatorial region.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes five motions for resolutions on the arrest of chinese dissident hu jiabao.
member of the commission. − madam president, only a month ago my colleague, commissioner ferrero-waldner, expressed in this chamber the commission’s deep concern at the continuous and systematic repression of human rights’ defenders in china. the commission was, therefore, all the more concerned to learn about mr hu jia’s arbitrary detention and recalls that he has been subjected to repeated acts of harassment in the past due to human rights activities. we also express our concern for mr hu jia’s health. he suffers from hepatitis b and must take daily medication. it is not clear whether daily access to the medical treatment he needs is guaranteed and whether he can count on doctors’ assistance during his detention in the beijing municipal detention centre in dougezhuang. in the commission’s view, the detention of mr hu jia places an obligation on the eu to act in a firm manner because of the clear inference that he was arrested as a consequence of speaking freely and honestly about the repression of human rights defenders via a telephone link to a meeting of the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights in november 2007. as such, it has echoes of the case of cao dong, a falun gong petitioner, who was arrested and is still in prison after meeting the vice-president of the european parliament in beijing in may 2006. the detention of mr hu jia also calls for a reaction from the eu as an international actor for the protection of human rights defenders. yesterday the eu troika carried out a firm démarche to the chinese authorities asking for his immediate release. we sincerely hope that the chinese authorities will understand that the issue of human rights defenders has an important impact on china’s standing with the european public and will act accordingly. i would like to reassure this chamber that the eu will monitor very closely the evolution of mr hu jia’s case. the commission would like to use this opportunity to urge again the chinese government to permit expressions of all forms of opinion. this is an important factor in how the international public views china, especially this year, when the eyes of the world will be on china in the build-up to the olympic games. we are convinced that a far more stable society can be achieved by allowing freedom of expression. let me close by saying that the commission will intensify its efforts to seek an improvement of the overall human rights situation in china. in this respect, we will continue to play an instrumental role within the troika in preparing the eu-china human rights dialogue and seminar so that discussions continue to become more target-focussed. despite the slow progress in the human rights situation in china, we firmly believe that the eu-china human rights dialogue remains one of the most effective ways of engaging china in frank and detailed discussions with a view to achieving human rights reforms on the ground.
the debate on this subject is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo and rape as a war crime.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission remains extremely worried about the deteriorating human rights situation – especially about the widespread sexual violence – in the eastern democratic republic of congo, and strongly condemns all acts of violence against women. in the prevailing climate of violence and insecurity all the armed groups present in the eastern democratic republic of congo, including elements of the national armed forces, are to some extent involved in the dramatic rise of these types of acts. in this context, it is important to promote the fight against impunity, but also to address the root causes of the problem. it ought to be noted that sexual violence in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo is embedded within the context of persistent conflict and violence in the region. peace is needed for sustained security and stability, the two key elements linked to the prevalence of sexual violence in the democratic republic of congo. this is why the commission, together with the eu member states, has been continuously promoting a political solution for the crisis in the eastern democratic republic of congo. the ongoing conference on peace, security and development in the kivus, coupled with the recent agreement reached between the democratic republic of congo and rwanda in nairobi in november 2007, could indeed represent a significant step forward in the process, while acknowledging that there are still many challenges ahead before a sustainable peace in the kivus can be reached. however, these efforts are not enough and have to be complemented with active support to strengthen the capacity of the state in providing protection to its people. in this regard, the commission works together with the member states in strengthening the rule of law and the fight against impunity by supporting the security sector reform comprising the army, the police and the justice sector. i would like to reflect on some of the questions from members and try to answer them. the commission addresses, in particular, the problem of sexual violence and criminality through a multi-donor justice and rehabilitation project in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo, focusing inter alia on building the capacity of judicial actors and reinforcing the provision of legal assistance to the victims of sexual violence. in addition, the commission provides significant humanitarian assistance – roughly eur 40 million per year – to the democratic republic of congo, especially to uturi and the kivus. our humanitarian and health programmes take into consideration the gender violence they mentioned, both from a creative and awareness-raising perspective.
the debate on this subject is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on egypt.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is paying close attention to the democratic and human rights situation in egypt, which is one of our partners in the european neighbourhood policy. it is following developments very closely through our delegation in cairo, and in partnership with the member states. it is also in regular contact with local and international ngos dealing with human rights and democracy. the commission shares your concern at the apparent deterioration of the human rights situation in egypt, and at the number of reported cases of human rights violations, particularly in relation to freedom of expression, torture and ill treatment, as well as respect for religious minorities. it has called for greater political reform, and respect for human rights is an intrinsic part of the eu partnership with egypt. the commission is, therefore, using all the means at its disposal to encourage the egyptian authorities to progress in this area. as a member of the un human rights council, egypt has committed itself to upholding ‘the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights’. the eu consistently raises the importance of respecting human rights – notably on the basis of article 2 of the association agreement – in its bilateral contacts with egypt, including those at the highest level. with the adoption of the joint eu-egypt action plan, under the european neighbourhood policy, in march 2007, we now have another political tool to foster respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in egypt, based on what we understand to be shared values. the action plan provides for the establishment of a formal and regular dialogue on human rights and democracy in the context of the subcommittee on political matters: human rights and democracy, international and regional issues. that subcommittee aims to facilitate dialogue within a context of mutual understanding, and respect for the positions of both parties, on all aspects of human rights and democracy, international and regional issues, in a comprehensive and non-exclusive way. it will convene for the first time next week – 23 and 24 january 2007 – in cairo, and will be a constructive way for egypt to demonstrate commitment to shared values. the commission firmly believes that the dialogue with egypt within the framework of the political arrangements set out in the association agreement and in the enp action plan is the most effective way to impress upon the egyptian government the eu’s concerns regarding respect for human rights and international law. the commission remains committed to contributing to egypt’s reform process through financial and technical assistance, and support for political reform, human rights and democracy remains a priority in the national indicative programme 2007-2010, and under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. i am sure the european parliament will be a strong ally in support of these efforts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
the recipients of the message got it, mr. posselt.
we shall now proceed to the remainder of the explanations of vote which have been left over from noon. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i note that the members are not present, but they may, if they wish, table written explanations of vote.
mr rübig, your remark will be noted.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i hereby declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 january 2008. the meeting cannot start before 12.30 p.m. because the president of the commission cannot be present earlier, so the meeting is scheduled to end at 2 p.m.
we welcome the acp members of the bureau of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and their delegations. the european union is also taking part in the international conference on climate change, which will be held in brussels from 9 to 12 june.
the agenda includes a statement by the president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, on the proposals relating to energy and climate change.
president of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank members for the general line of strong support for our proposals. i understood correctly that this house is very committed to this very important matter and sees it as one of the most important challenges, if not the most important, for our generation. i would like to thank you for that. we were asked to come here immediately after our meeting, so we cannot yet have an in-depth discussion, but let me tell you that the commission would be happy to participate actively in such a debate – myself, commissioner dimas, commissioner piebalgs and the other relevant commissioners. we will be ready to discuss with you all details of this very important set of proposals. let me start by saying that some of your comments were based on earlier work and not on the proposals that we are putting forward today. it is important to understand that the proposals are the ones adopted today by the college. the work was done over months – it is a very complex issue. you have had access, as has the press, to some staff work, very important work, but the decision was taken only half an hour precisely before coming to this house. i believe it is a very balanced decision – ambitious, but, at the same time, balanced and fair, and we are very proud. i think we have gained time. i think the fact that we have one more month to build a strong consensus in the commission helps us gain time for the adoption, hopefully in this parliament, of the whole package. i understood the point made by mr sacconi and by ms ek about the need to do it, but let us put it like that. let us not see the time until june 2009 as the home straight for this parliament; let us finish the work of this parliament with a bang, with a climax, by adopting these very important proposals! let me say that, from my contacts with the governments of our member states, namely with the current slovene presidency and the upcoming french presidency, i thought that there was a strong determination to do it fast, to go ahead with it, to make it a real priority. and, if we do it as well here in the parliament, i really believe it will be possible to get this package approved – after the necessary negotiations, of course, and we are ready. we do not pretend our proposal is perfect. i think it is possible that this parliament, during this term, will achieve a very strong consensus around a very ambitious set of proposals. we have highlighted the difficult and political points. let me just make a final comment about this. one is the question of balance between ecological commitment and the need to reduce our greenhouse gases and, at the same time, the need to address fears that exist in some parts of our industry regarding some effects on international competition. let us make it clear: we are not making an exception for any sector of our industry. all of them are going to be involved in this. what we are considering is just in case there is no global agreement, but the global agreement remains our goal and our priority. yes, there will be some measures to cushion the impact of this factor in some of our industries, because we want, of course, to protect the economy of europe and we want to protect our jobs in europe. this is the important thing, and we believe we have reached a very balanced solution. regarding the point made about burden-sharing among member states, we have decided to do it broadly as follows. we are going to see the concrete proposals regarding renewables. as you know, the target set was 20% of energy use through renewables. we are, today, at 8.5%, so we have to go for 11.5% more. we have decided, broadly speaking, to make half of that subject to a flat rate – everybody has to make the same effort. the other part of it, we have decided, will be according to gdp per capita. it seems to us the fairest method, because it is a way of giving more possibilities to those that have more resources to invest than the poorest member states. i think it is fair. we have adjusted this with the criteria of flexibility for those countries that have made an effort already, so as to give some kind of prize or bonus to the early starters. all the methodology will be transparent. we are going to present it. we believe it is a good and fair proposal in terms of burden-sharing among member states. i am quite hopeful that it will be well received by most of our member states. anyway, the scenarios will be transparent, the methodology will be presented, and if the council and parliament can find a better solution, please do. we think, in the end, that this will be the solution, because it was technically sound and also very fair. regarding the problem of biofuels, we agree with most of what you said. the question is that today there are no sustainability criteria for the biofuels that are already being produced in the world and are already circulating. what we are doing now is establishing, for the first time ever, high-level criteria of sustainability for biofuels – domestic and imported biofuels – once again keeping in mind that what we want is a global agreement. today there is no global agreement: in latin america they do it one way, in the united states they do it another way and in africa another way. therefore, we need an international regime for the sustainability of biofuels, and this is what we are doing: promoting a new generation of biofuels. therefore, while accepting all the criticisms of those who said that there are some risks with biofuels – and we agree there are – let us compare the alternative. we are proposing an alternative that is much better than the current situation. some of you were concerned about the need for more investment in technology. i agree with that. let us keep this in mind when we discuss the next financial perspective. i think we have to do more. i agree, because for carbon capture and storage, which is a very important and promising technology, we need capital. by the way, regarding the auction revenues of the member states, we are proposing that the member states assign a part of them to the fight against climate change. let us hope they will accept that. let me tell you from my contacts with the member states during all these processes one thing that i have already made public. sometimes, when discussing climate change, i remember what john stuart mill said about his father. he said that his father loved mankind in general, but hated every individual in particular. let us hope our member states and some of our national politicians are not like that. if they want to fight climate change, they cannot just love the agenda politically and afterwards not commit to precise targets and methods. this is an important issue. what the commission has done today is to translate those goals and intentions into concrete measures and into instruments that are transparent. are they perfect? let us discuss it. we believe they are reliable, fair and effective. we believe it is important, as mr hökmark said, that we also rely on the market. we will not enter into the energy mix of the member states – that could be a discussion without end. we are not claiming that this or that is the best option. we are saying that now a goal has been unanimously agreed by the member states of 20% use through renewables – for obvious reasons we have had to put the emphasis on renewables, because we have to give some clear incentives to the market – it is the market that will decide on the best technology and source of energy. we are not giving more precise instructions, because that is not what we have to do. but, please, think about the difficulty involved. we are applying general rules and principles and instruments to 27 very different situations, in terms not only of economic development but also of energy mix, the history of those countries and the culture of awareness of some of these problems. it is unavoidable that, in the end, there will be some differences. the important thing is to have a coherent approach. i believe that we have come here today with a coherent approach. i am looking forward very much to the necessary discussions at legislative level and i really believe that, with the spirit of partnership we have seen on other important pieces of legislation, we, together with the european parliament and the council, will reach a very ambitious and, at the same time, realistic proposal. (applause)
the debate is closed. the minutes of today's sitting will be tabled for approval by the house at the next part-session. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. the presentation to the council of measures to combat climate change by the president of the commission, mr barroso, has an objective and a vision: the strengthening of european monopolies in the face of intense inter-imperialist competition in the energy sector. the necessary objective of reducing emissions is being exploited to share markets and limit the potential of emerging new powers (china, brazil) to claim larger market shares. it gives an outlet to capital over-accumulation through the commodification of environmental protection. after the liberalisation of strategic sectors (energy, telecommunications), the green economy is one of the new major investment avenues for monopoly capital. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. the kyoto protocol has created a new capitalist market in the trade in pollutants. the right to pollute is traded for a price on the carbon market. it fosters a climate of class collaboration, trying to exploit the world's awareness, hiding that dangerous climate change, global warming, is the result of industrial development driven by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy, water and so on. they are measures to the detriment of the people's needs and the development of the profitability of capital in the environmental sector.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 2.05 p.m.)
mr president, what is happening in gaza is tragic and all colleagues have expressed their shock. it is a pity that this is happening to the european union. i am not sure that we can make an effective contribution to the commitments we have made, in terms of financial aid, humanitarian aid, apart from the political weakness we have. we are investing in people, in mechanisms, tem is evolving into pegasus, we are investing in community resources. the question is how can we be effective right now? do you have any news, commissioner? is there enough humanitarian aid in gaza? is there cooperation with israel, even on this issue? can the palestinian authority contribute to some normalisation and facilitation of humanitarian aid? pegasus should be in operation by tomorrow. your services have invested in detail, design, human resources. how can we be worthy of this vision and these resources, commissioner?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, the last-minute compromise in bali gives us a road map to copenhagen in 2009, but it has also revealed the forces that are reacting and that will undermine the necessary agreement. until then, the european union must become and remain the leader of a broader agreement with specific ambitious commitments and timetables. the benefits of such an agreement far outweigh the economic costs. my group and the european parliament's resolution of november 2007 set more ambitious and binding targets than those presented by the commission a few days ago - for both the european union and the member states - calling for more generous aid to developing countries. but, commissioner, be careful! the traditional industrial lobby has already begun to shake the commission's proposal, and at the same time the nuclear lobby has put on the green shoe to replace renewable energy sources with nuclear energy. you should watch out for these.
madam president, commissioner, the road from bali to copenhagen is now open and i think we should not be so anxious about it. now, our focus, our priority, has to be this new set of targets that you have put forward, the three 20s for 2020, as i call it, "dema package", as some others call it. but in any case, i believe that in the 18 months to the end of this parliament's term of office, this package of initiatives must become community legislation. that is our concern, that is our priority. and the fact that you have been criticized by many as being too ambitious for this package, as well as others who consider it not ambitious at all, i think is the best commendation that you are on the right track. the second point i would like to make very quickly is that, in addition to governments and parliament, citizens must also do their job. we must all become better in this reflection. from traffic jams to how we design and live in buildings, it's all about the citizens. not just with governments. i hope that you will help to bring this awareness to many through your work in brussels.
the european union is at the forefront of the fight against climate change, and in this fight it is clear that you have a special role to play. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in the world economy is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the union should also take the lead in implementing the binding objectives it has set itself, with the greatest possible consistency. we note that there are very serious differences between the member states of the european union in the implementation of the objectives to combat climate change. we therefore now expect measures, incentives and initiatives to reduce the gap and make the response of all the member states of the european union to this objective more coherent.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would very much like to thank ms hall for a very timely and important report. we are definitely concentrating our efforts not only on the implementation of current legislation but on actually delivering our agenda of energy efficiency action plans. i would like to mention that we have also achieved sustainable successes. this week we launched the covenant of mayors, in which more than a hundred cities are now participating. we have now adopted in the college a renewable energy directive which indirectly strengthens energy efficiency. we adopted the proposal for co2 reduction in the non-ets sector. we adopted a proposal for emissions from cars. i could name more very strong measures, where the commission has delivered. we have not only delivered on issues of legislation. sustainable energy week is a good example of how the commission policy of promoting energy efficiency and renewables is bearing fruit. i believe that we should strengthen implementation. the commission has started launching 59 infringement cases for non-timely implementation. today, 42 infringement cases are running. the commission will continue to work on this and will also check all the legislation on compliance. the european commission is strongly focused on this. i believe the current legislative proposal on ets, on non-ets and on renewables will definitely make the member states put more emphasis on energy efficiency. concerning the energy efficiency action plans, we had rather a lukewarm start. i wrote to ministers reminding them about their duty to report and to make qualitative plans and now 21 out of the 27 member states have done so. we have made a preliminary analysis of energy efficiency action plans, which are part of the package and sometimes a bit overshadowed by the legislative efforts. i believe that it is right that we continue to do this. on the issues ms hall mentioned, a recasting of the buildings directive is in this year’s work plan. we are now in the final stages of defining energy performance in appliances. we will also change the labelling directive. we are in fact following all the requests that the european parliament has made of us. but i believe this directive also offers very good guidelines for the commission to follow, because it is very concrete. i could say in some cases things are better and in some cases worse. i really believe that we are paying attention, but we could pay more attention. we will definitely deliver. this report will not stay on the shelf but we will use it as working document. i will be continually updating parliament on how we are proceeding in the area of energy efficiency.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is now widely accepted that improving energy efficiency is the fastest, most sustainable and cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency. we must encourage research and eco-innovation through the development of energy-efficient technologies, without however neglecting the need to change our consumption habits. we have highlighted the role that the public sector can play in achieving european objectives through the choice of energy-efficient products and services. i would point out that all european citizens can contribute to the effort, both in terms of policy-making and the implementation of existing legislation, through the choices we make in our daily lives.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hall, on her brave and comprehensive approach to energy efficiency, which really goes further than the european commission's proposals. at current energy levels, energy saving is the most effective tool to address climate change, given that the greenhouse gas emissions trading system has not yet delivered the desired results. the building sector should be given priority in terms of savings, as it accounts for more than 40% of energy consumption. in greece, the building sector consumes about one third of total energy resources and contributes 40% to carbon dioxide emissions. however, greece has not yet transposed the energy efficiency in buildings directive into national law and has been recently condemned by the european court of justice, and is one of the 10 countries that has not yet presented a national energy efficiency action plan. however, while the harmonization of national legislation with community legislation is necessary, it is not sufficient to achieve the objectives pursued. the union, and i am glad that the commissioner has also said this, must give weight to the most consistent implementation of energy objectives by all member states. the measures and incentives proposed in the report, such as access to structural funding to achieve energy efficiency, an increase in the minimum rate of structural and cohesion funding, tax incentives and, in particular, a reduction in the vat rate for energy-efficient homes and smes, can play a highly constructive role in this direction. the climate change gamble cannot be won by individuals but by all member states. if we want the union to remain at the forefront of this effort and strong in negotiations with the rest, we must give weight to closing the gap between the countries leading the way and those lagging behind.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members of parliament for a very substantial debate. as i said, it is the commission’s ambition to follow the energy efficiency action plan. i know sometimes you wish that we would move faster, but there are some steps that we should also take – better regulation, public consultation and impact assessment. everything takes time. i believe we need a debate about regulation and also incentives. i think both should be in balance but both instruments should be used. today i met a minister from montenegro. they have an excellent energy strategy developed until 2025, but i urged him to go very strongly for regulation, because this is a country which will have a huge increase in its buildings. they will not deter investors if they set an extremely tough requirement for the immediate reintegration of renewable energies. all standards and the country will benefit. otherwise, the taxpayers will pay for additional energy supplies. so i believe ambition is needed. we have set out new guidelines on the budget issue. we need to make much more effort to establish when state aid for new technologies, energy efficiency and renewables is to be applied. we are also working on an international platform for energy efficiency that could create synergies at international level. however, budgetary authority lies not only with the commission but also with parliament. i am very grateful for the work mr buzek did for the seventh framework programme. i think that we still have substantial means. it is also part of your good work and the work of this house. an increase in the budget or redistribution is a much more complex issue, one i cannot answer. i would not mind additional money in my colleagues’ budget – mr potočnik’s budget or the external relations budget – but it should be seen in common in the budget debate. so i thought this an excellent report. it is not always very kind to the commission but it is not about kindness. we are speaking about energy efficiency and ambitions will definitely be high on the commission’s side as well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 january 2008. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr carl schlyter, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the policy to reduce unwanted by-catches and eliminate discards in european fisheries (2007/2112 (ini)) (a6-0495/2007).
madam president, first of all i should like to welcome the draft report on discarding and to stress that this is one of the most important problems facing european and international fisheries. i would like to add a few comments on the report. i believe that in addition to the points proposed, a uniform policy for the final disposal of waste should be implemented. the commission's proposal is to set up a european fisheries fund, which will be responsible for the management of the fisheries resources of the european union. in order to tackle the problem radically, the european union must immediately finance and commission specialized research institutes to study each fishing gear, each type of fishery, each type of catch. the commission will thus be able to impose centrally, by means of regulations, on the member states the best and most efficient solutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank members for their interesting comments, which demonstrate once again that we share the common objective of eliminating this appalling practice. as i stated before, our proposal will be gradual but effective. realistically speaking, we simply cannot bring about a discard ban overnight. however, as one speaker said, doing nothing is not an option. and, undoubtedly, during the course of this year we will be coming up, hopefully, with three legislative proposals on reducing discards for specific fisheries, apart from incentivising and encouraging member states to come up with pilot projects, by virtue of which we could achieve the introduction of a reduction in discards or even, possibly, discard bans. the example of scotland, which was adopted by the council in december, was a very laudable one. concerning the point that was made on positive incentives, i agree that these are important, but we need to find the right mix and the right levels, because otherwise they could be counterproductive, and we could end up with a situation whereby we encourage more catches when, for sustainability reasons, we would want to reduce them in order to reach msy levels. i would also like to point out that i could not agree more that our proposals must be tailor-made to the specific fisheries and must contain in-built incentives, as i said, and support for the changes in behaviour that fishermen will have to adopt. indeed, already, in our tac and quota regulation, we adopted incentives for fishermen to adopt more selective methods, thus avoiding discards. in the very first intervention and in others that followed, the point was made that discards are caused by the common fisheries policy. i would like to state that this is not really correct, because the causes of discards can arise form the high grading of fish by fishermen for the purpose of getting better quality fish, which is done independently of quotas, and the catching of juveniles, which is also independent of quotas. it is only where there is exceeding of catch quotas, and again this depends, because if it is a clean fishery and the quota is exceeded, then the quota is set for purposes of sustainability. it is, in reality, where you have a mixed catch, and you have one of the types of catch which has a low quota for sustainability reasons, and the other catches targeted, that you have discarding of fish as a result of the tac and quota regulations. these are the aspects which we would like to address in order to introduce more selective gear, so that the catches can become even cleaner – which is one of the methods whereby discarding could be effectively reduced. i would also like to point out that, according to fao estimates, discards within community waters are around one million tonnes. worldwide they are around eight million tonnes. these are very conservative estimates. when one takes into consideration that the system that we operate is producing less than one tenth of all discards – taking into account the tacs and quotas – i think that there are various other factors which contribute to discarding apart from the system operated by the common fisheries policy. having said that, we are actively seeking ways and means whereby we improve the management so that the tacs and quotas operate in a way whereby discards are reduced to an absolute minimum or are completely banned. finally, on the point raised concerning mauritania, i would like to say that we have just signed a new memorandum of understanding with mauritania, and this will lead to a new protocol which will guarantee for mauritania the same amount that they have under the existing protocol but which will reflect the actual fishing possibilities in a more realistic way. so we will be paying mauritania to help it strengthen its fisheries infrastructure and its economy in general under the development funds, so that, in that way, mauritania is guaranteed the full amount. but at least what we pay for fish would reflect the actual amount of fish that it is possible to catch in mauritanian waters.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 january 2008. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european grouping of territorial cooperation by gerardo galeote, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-0076/2007/rev. b6-0008/2008).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european union regional development programme is a good one. through this objective, cooperation emerges as a key tool for promoting balanced, harmonious development among european regions. the european grouping of territorial cooperation is a new instrument which can give legal status to cooperation groups of regional and local authorities from different member states of the european union. the creation of this instrument was not a mere decision, but a response to the technical and legal problems faced by cooperation programmes. it is regrettable that today, six months after the deadline, local and regional authorities are still unable to set up a territorial cooperation group because the member states are too lax and unjustifiably slow to take the appropriate measures to implement the regulation. today a clear message must be sent to the member states about the importance which the institutions attach to the proper implementation of the regulation for the new programming period, but also about the importance of cooperation as a means of achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, the internet, the internet is the new battlefield. the commission and the council consider it a battlefield in the fight against terrorism - and rightly so - but for many of us it is also a battlefield in the defence of the fundamental rights of citizens. sure, the internet is used by terrorists - we know that - but it's also used by millions of innocent citizens to talk. even terrorism, which they try to understand without justifying it, which we here rarely do, unfortunately, so having a legislative initiative that combats the circulation of pro-terrorist propaganda online is something that is potentially important, but also terribly sensitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it doesn't require that someone who is promoting propaganda for terrorism is doing it deliberately and... and there's a possibility that this propaganda could end up in a terrorist act. instead of "weather", your text has "even". so a citizen who tries to justify and understand terrorism somewhere on earth can be blamed just because "someone" believes that his words led to some terrorist act, even if he had no intention of doing so. you've got to fix that. also, please explain: will the content of our e-mails be monitored? and by whom, so that the police authority can then judge whether this new law you are promoting has been violated. i would remind you that in the case of data retention, the retention of telephone records, you have stated repeatedly - to reassure us - that the content of our sms and telephone calls will not be monitored. will the content of e-mails be monitored here, in application of this measure you are promoting? the other point i would like to stress is the initiative for a european pnr. dear friends, we don't need this. you haven't at least explained why? we have apis, we have - mr frattini was right - vis, a success of our agreement, we have schengen, so we know very well who is travelling around the world today and who is coming to europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. where is the pressure for harmonisation of the pnr legislation at the moment? the european data protection supervisor has also expressed his disagreement with this measure. why are you pushing it so hard? why do you not sit down and talk to parliament, to people who are passionate about fighting terrorism, but who may be just as interested - perhaps more so, as we are sometimes accused of - in protecting rights?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the austrian initiative and the commission's report seek to further strengthen cooperation between special intervention units of the member states of the european union and to undertake joint operations on the territory of each member state to counter alleged terrorist attacks. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. even with the use of weapons. for years now the european union has been cultivating a climate of terror-hysteria, insecurity and terror in the face of an invisible enemy whose alleged combating has drastically curtailed fundamental individual rights and democratic freedoms. who is the european union's enemy, after all? we have heard of terrorism for many years, but in reality the european union is trying to shield its policy, to shield the economic and political system from the objections of the workers. the report itself admits this. all the talk about terrorism and so on is theories. it legitimizes interventions and joint police operations, even for suspected criminal acts, or for suspected threats against the property of state infrastructures or agencies, or for committing unspecified crimes. it is precisely with such deliberately vague formulations that intervention can be justified even for the repression of traditional forms of popular mobilization and protest, such as for example symbolic occupations of streets and public buildings, large strikes, the encirclement of strike mobilizations. we believe that's the goal, which is why we disagree. we are opposed to it, we are voting against the initiative and the report, and we are calling on the people to protect their individual and democratic rights.
in writing. we oppose the reactionary restructuring of research promoted by the eu's guidelines for the creation of the single research area (sra) in the framework of the lisbon strategy. the eea is a place of conflict and competition of interests between countries and large business groups, a place where uneven scientific development will intensify. incentives, subsidies and tax exemptions for monopoly firms to invest and exploit the results on their own account are strengthened. the public sector is subordinated to and serves the needs of the monopoly groups. the mobility of researchers between companies, universities and research centres is promoted and the european patent system is supported on the basis of cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is clear that the highly competitive environment in which research is being conducted will be dominated by the famous 'centres of excellence' of the powerful states, which will ensure the 'sweepstakes' of research programmes by pooling public and private resources. we are fighting for the overthrow of the eu's research policy - in the context of the struggle for the total overthrow of the anti-people policy of the eu and of capital - to restore the social character of science, for research and science in the service of the contemporary popular needs and social welfare.
in writing. i voted against the compromise of the european parliament and the council, as did the whole of the group of the european left, because it reinforces the doctrinaire neoliberal approach to a nerve-wracking public interest sector, the postal services. the directive does not provide a long-term solution and postponing its entry into force merely postpones the negative effects for two years. the abolition of the 'universal service principle' will restrict citizens' access to quality and low-cost postal services. the consequences will be even greater for residents of remote and inaccessible, mountainous or island areas, whose services will not be beneficial to businesses. the experience so far in countries where the market has already been fully liberalised has been anything but positive. the demand for the liberalization of postal services with the 'that's the way i want it' is creating problems rather than solutions.
in writing. the council's common position on postal services, which is to be adopted by the european parliament, completes the full liberalisation of the 'market for postal services' from 31 december 2010. the amendment to the directive puts another lucrative sector, the postal services, in the hands of large capital, in the framework of the lisbon strategy, to maximise its profitability. postal services are being transformed from a public good into a commodity. in our country, the privatisation of the sectors of activity of the eltas, which was promoted by the nd and pasok governments, will continue with greater intensity. the eltas will now operate on a private-economic basis, with profit as the main driver rather than social benefit. the impact on the quality of services will be immediate and the consequences will be painful for workers in the postal services, but also for private postal services, where flexible forms of employment and the absence of labour, social and insurance rights are already the norm. the constitutionally guaranteed secrecy of correspondence is also called into question, as it is now delivered to private individuals, without any guarantee and with minimal controls to ensure its secrecy and the protection of personal data. the kke opposes the liberalization of postal services and fights for postal services which are exclusively public, modern and efficient and for the safeguarding of workers' rights.
in writing. the statements by mr solana, representatives of the eu and the parties supporting it dispel once and for all any illusions about the eu's role against iran and in the middle east in general. they show that the eu is an ally in promoting the american-led project for the 'democratization of the middle east' which aims at the subjugation of states and peoples, the control of the resources that produce wealth. the iaea's assurances, the cia report, about iran's civilian use of nuclear energy are deliberately ignored by the eu, which is escalating pressure with sanctions against iran, is intensifying propaganda to familiarize public opinion with a war against it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the community's role in the world economy is to provide a framework for the development of the world economy and to promote the development of the world economy. the people of palestine, iran, lebanon and so on are its victims. the only answer to the new aggressive, war plans is the resistance of the peoples to imperialism, without any illusions about the role of the eu. the people of each country are responsible for human rights and their violation, which must not be allowed to become the pretext for a new iraq.
in writing. the resolution on climate change at the bali conference, attempts to find positives where none exist and at the same time to cover up the causes of environmental disaster, namely the predatory exploitation of natural wealth by capital in order to profit by commodifying land, air, energy and water. it notes the risk that climate change could 'be a major factor in destabilising the poorest countries' so that euro-monopoly capital can use climate change as an alibi for greater exploitation of developing countries, when it is known that the actions of multinationals are one of the most important causes of their poverty. it calls for serious commitments from emerging countries, taking account of the stage of development and structure of their economies. it specifically mentions china and india for promoting cooperation in energy policy to curb emissions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. perhaps this is why there is no mention of direct measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and only general wishes are expressed. in short, in bali, the front was climate change. the main one was the sharpening of inter-imperialist antagonisms in the energy sector and the commodification of the environment.
in writing. it is logical to introduce measures to avoid discards in order to protect fish stocks. however, we must answer the question why there are discards when many workers would like to have more fish in their diet. the reason is the capitalist mode of production. the catch is a commodity which is intended to be brought to market for the benefit of the large fishing enterprise, not just for food. if the fisheries undertaking considers that it will not make a profit or, even more importantly, that the price of certain catches will fall because of the high supply, then the reasons for the rejections are explained, without all the reasons being limited to this. the new proposal is essentially a wish list and repeats a similar policy that should have been implemented five or more years ago, as the report states. we have no objection to certain measures being taken to limit or prohibit dumping. we have a reservation, however, that some of these measures may be burdensome for small and mediumsized fisheries undertakings and in fact constitute a pretext for not being able to fish freely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the roma are almost always victims of racial discrimination. the rejection of their traditions and culture and their marginalization leads to their social exclusion, makes them easy prey for capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the national governments and the eu are limiting themselves to grand declarations, avoiding any substantive action. in greece, as in other countries, the majority of roma live in squalid conditions, in camps, without water and sanitation. many are unemployed, without social security and health rights. the problems of children are acute: increased infant mortality, low vaccination rates, low school attendance. 80% of them are still illiterate. governments must take measures to ensure equal participation of roma in social life and respect for their cultural traditions. in greece, we are calling for the establishment of a centre for the study of the gypsy race, which will deal with their culture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the disabled are respected, and that the right to a decent standard of living is guaranteed. their struggle is common to that of all workers against the monopoly interests and the exploitative system.
mr president, as you know, there is a stated target of 10% of renewable energy being used for biofuels. i have the impression that there are divergent views among the commissioners for energy, environment, industry and agriculture. in order to save time, i omit to refer to the private announcements. the question is: four competent commissioners, four dissenting opinions? what message, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, can i give to the greek farmers who have turned or want to turn their crops to the production of first-generation biofuels after the restructuring of the common sugar organisation?
mr president, i would like to remind you that on 13 december 2006 the united nations general assembly decided to adopt the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the procedure for ratifying this convention has been open since march 2007, but only 16 countries, including two member states of the european union, have ratified it. i think that, because the european union has a policy to promote the rights of disabled people, it is a matter of culture, protection of rights and human dignity, that all the member states should ratify this convention, which in its 50 articles describes in detail the rights of disabled people in every field of human action (health, justice, family) and calls on them to participate in decision-making.
mr president, the common organisation of the market in tobacco provides for the transfer from 2009 of resources currently granted as subsidies to growers from pillar 1, direct subsidies, to pillar 2, which is structural measures. in my country, greece, tobacco is usually grown in semiarid areas by poor farmers who have no other options. so if tobacco stops growing in some areas, we have a social, economic, environmental problem. i have also noticed that there is a prosecution of tobacco growing and not of smoking. i mean, if we stopped growing tobacco and at the same time stopped smoking, we would all agree that this is the way it should be done. but that's not possible. the european tobacco industry will continue to produce cigarettes and all tobacco will simply be imported from third countries. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco sector is not left behind.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the time constraint is catastrophic. however, i must tell you that i have seen the report in very good faith. the point is that i have found it to be too limited to detection on the one hand and suppression on the other. i would like to say that the point on which we should be particularly concerned is the production of terrorism. we have a terrorist production academy in the middle east. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same phenomenon is occurring today, and i am glad to be given the floor now, one day after kosovo's independence. you know there's a chance of another incident there. what if the serbs of mitrovica tomorrow make an act of resistance or - if you prefer - of discontent ? are we going to call them terrorists? we must examine what are the reasons that make the terrorists ready to act against our own system here in europe that does not support them.
we are particularly concerned, as you are, commissioner, about the lack of reciprocity in terms of market access conditions and the unequal treatment accorded to european products by many partners. in the textile and clothing sector, for example, the european union applies an average duty of 9%, among the lowest in the world. in contrast, many competitors impose duties of up to over 30% in parallel with a plethora of non-tariff barriers. the emerging economies must therefore accept to some extent the principle of reciprocity in concessions according to their level of development and sectoral competitiveness. the protection of intellectual property rights worldwide and of geographical indications remains severely deficient, which is undermining the competitive advantage of european high value-added products, both industrial and agricultural. the harmonization of international regulatory standards and rules which facilitates access to foreign markets should not make the european regulatory framework for environmental and social protection, public health and consumer protection more flexible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. the commission has also taken the view that the measures proposed by the member states should be implemented in a manner that is compatible with the common market. finally, i would like to stress that the new market access strategy should put smes at the centre. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur and you, commissioner, and we welcome the commission's initiative on the new market access strategy.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank you for your work. i couldn't agree more. i think that all european citizens agree with this. but when they see us dealing with tractor lights and other trivial matters, they are sure to be disappointed. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report, which is a very good one. but i wonder whether it would not have been wiser if the european union had solved its internal problems before enlargement? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am surprised to hear my british colleague and the positions he has expressed. if lisbon is not ratified, then europe has no future.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the council and commission statements on the lisbon strategy and the report by margarita starkevičiūtė, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the integrated guidelines for growth and employment (section: broad guidelines for the economic policies of the member states and the community - launch of the new cycle (2008-2010)). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, i think we must recognize three positive elements in the course of reforms opened up by the lisbon cycle so far: - the first positive element is that governments, even the most sceptical, have begun, little by little, to enter into the logic of reforms and have begun, cowardly, to produce the first results; - the second - and we must give credit to the commission - is that the new strategy is more targeted. the third positive element is that major emblematic european projects, such as galileo and the eit, are at the heart of the new strategy and, at this point, i take advantage of the presence of the slovenian minister to ask him to ask his colleagues to close the galileo issue quickly so that we can now start to use the very significant amounts earmarked for this project. but we also have two negative elements, two shortcomings, which we must consider calmly: - the first shortcoming is that the citizens, unfortunately, do not follow, do not watch, do not press, do not know. that is a problem: the citizens see lisbon as something that is top-down and we have to convince them that it concerns them; the second deficiency is the monitoring mechanisms. how do we check whether the member states are doing what they promise to do in the reform cycle? i am afraid that there is a problem here too, because this monitoring has degenerated into a process of exchanging letters between officials in brussels and the capitals of the member states without any political input. i think that even if we legitimize reforms, we need to put politics back as the center of gravity in the monitoring process. this exchange of large paper packages must stop.
member of the commission. - i do not think i have anything to add to the information given by the honourable member.
member of the commission. − the commission communication entitled 'the european language competence indicator', adopted in 2005, proposed a detailed strategic approach to the development of a european survey on language competences, a tool that will allow the collection of data needed to develop a european-wide indicator in the field and improve knowledge of foreign language teaching. on this basis, in may 2006 the council presented its conclusions on a number of key issues concerning the european indicator of language proficiency. as regards the foreign languages to be tested, the council decided that the european language proficiency indicator will be designed for the official languages of the european union. this means that only living languages are targeted by this project. therefore, the possibility of testing latin or ancient greek was not considered. for practical reasons, the council decided that the first wave of the european survey on language competence will assess pupils' language skills for the first and second foreign languages of the most studied official foreign languages at european union level, namely english, french, german, spanish and italian, and collect data for three skills: reading, listening and writing. however, the test tool will be available to all states wishing to ensure that tests other than those for these five foreign languages can be included as national options. the commission will also take the initiative to ensure that the next stage of the survey covers all the official languages being studied in the european union.
mr president, i see that it is not your responsibility to teach, or to disseminate, or, as i have already said in writing, to preserve the common heritage of the classical languages: latin and ancient greek. is it your jurisdiction or is it not your jurisdiction? that's the first question. and secondly, does the european research programme concern research in these languages, yes or no? are you familiar with the subject?
member of the commission. - the question i was asked was related to the european language proficiency indicator. and as i said, only the official languages of the european union are subject to this approach. on the other hand, the european commission has no information on any research or studies being carried out in the member states or regions of the member states on the languages mentioned.
as rapporteur of the report on the european linguistic knowledge index, mr commissioner, i would like to point out that this index is intended to ensure that the total knowledge of foreign languages in all the member states is measured at regular intervals. we had agreed that in a first stage this index would measure language proficiency in the five most widely used languages in the european union's education systems: english, french, german, italian and spanish. however, parliament called on the commission and the council to take the necessary measures to extend this test to a wider range of official languages of the union as soon as possible, without, however, jeopardising the teaching and development of foreign languages. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me say that, in the process of preparing for the new generation of cohesion policy programmes for 2007-2013, the commission has insisted that, during the negotiations, the roma issue, which is of particular importance to the honourable member, is included in planning and programming. i must admit that member states have responded very positively by including the roma issue as a cross-cutting issue in many national strategic reference frameworks and also through direct references in operational programmes. this is particularly strongly visible in the case of countries like hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, romania, bulgaria, estonia and spain, but also in the case of poland, slovenia, lithuania and finland. due to the decentralised way of managing the structural funds, it is not possible for the commission to identify clearly which projects are targeting and will in the future target, and how much money will be available for, the roma issue. however, our presence in the monitoring committee for the period 2000-2006 clearly shows that there is a multitude of very interesting and complementary programmes and projects which support roma inclusion. we have, in many esf and erdf programmes, either specific implementation allocations or support for roma inclusion indirectly, through references to vulnerable groups. this is, for example, the case in estonia, finland and poland. on the issue of the publication of data, i must say that, for the period 2007-2013, member states, as you probably know, are required to publish details of the beneficiaries under each programme, but this system does not extend explicitly to identifying the ethnic background of the beneficiaries. nevertheless, on the basis of this list that we will receive, we will be able to identify areas in which the european policy is active. let me also say that dg regio has prepared, for the period 2007-2013, guidance for internal commission work on the roma issue, which has been used across the services in the programming period. there is a roma inter-service group working on structural funds chaired by dg regio. let me also say that in many member states – and hungary is a good example here – we also have steering mechanisms which are specially created for the process of new regional policy. in hungary, for example, there is a network of advisers of roma origin to assist roma applicants in preparation of the project at different stages. the commission is also currently working on, and will present by june 2008, an overview of all the community instruments and policies, including the structural funds, and their impact on roma inclusion.
member of the commission. − it is actually commissioner špidla who is in charge of the preparation of the commission document in response to the council request. nevertheless, through the inter-service groups we are all participating in this process. as i said, we will have the information from the report on final beneficiaries, so we will know what is being done for the roma or for other minorities. we will not have ethnically-segregated data with regard to the background of beneficiaries. nevertheless, the area in which the project will be functioning will be absolutely clear, so, on the basis of this, we will know for the period 2007-2013 much more than we know so far. let me also say that the commission, in its function as observer within the management system in the committees in the member states, is also looking at and actively participating in the assessment of the allocation of funds in the areas important to ethnic minorities, so we have different sorts of information. but i must admit that we do not have a fully-fledged instrument to identify the entire scope of the intervention taking place through the policy, but we are certainly very aware and we are using all the opportunities that we have. we will see. we are now preparing the input into the commission document for the council. we will also see where the black areas are, where we do not have information, and what kind of action we might still need.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether the vulnerable groups, whether minority or not, include single-parent and multi-child poor families and whether the criteria can be combined and the benefits multiplied to such groups.
member of the commission. − i should just like to say that nothing has been excluded. with your help we have been through the preparation of the regulations. we have been sensitive to vulnerable groups, and there are clear references in the general erdf regulation with regard, for example, to equal opportunities policies. so it is a priority. there is also the system of reporting on how equal opportunity policies are implemented in the new generation of cohesion policy programmes. the extent to which this is used by the member states, by the regions, depends on how strong the partners participating in all the structures of the management fund are in this process. it is a joint effort. the commission has created the general framework, in order to take into account all the vulnerable groups. its use depends not just on the commission, but also on the member states. i would strongly encourage all those present on the ground to see that this issue is taken into account. the member states are now also going through the process of deciding on the selection criteria, and the commission is participating in this process. nevertheless, it depends on the member states and on the partners, because the monitoring committees include all the social partners. i hope that all the partners, along with the commission, will bring these issues to the attention of the member states, and that the selection criteria will include criteria that allow us to have full representation of all the vulnerable groups in our programmes.
member of the commission. − with regard to ireland and the allocation for 2007-2013 and the division between the two major regions, let me say that the border, midlands and western (bmw) region, which is a phasing-in region within the second objective, will receive a per capita financial allocation which is four times higher than that of its neighbour, the more prosperous southern and eastern region of the republic. of the total eur 901 million allocated to ireland, eur 457 million will go to the bmw region and eur 293 million to the southern and eastern region. we also have eur 150 million that will go to cooperation programmes, which translates into a per capita allocation of approximately eur 400 in the bmw and approximately eur 95 in the southern and eastern region. let me also say that the bmw region has performed very well over the recent programming period with the assistance of the eu structural funds. the region had already reached 102.9% of the eu-27 average gdp per capita by 2004. but i admit that the gap in regional gdp for the bmw region and the neighbouring region remains a challenge, which is why we hope that in the 2007-2013 programmes, under both the esf and erdf, we will see a further reduction in this gap.
member of the commission. − i appreciate that comment very much. let me also say that we will be there with the bmw region for the years to come. as you know, the cut in the allocation for ireland was extremely deep for 2007-2013, and that has, of course, clearly impacted on how much we can do together in the years to come. let me also say that the good news for ireland is that there is the irish national spatial strategy, which is a national programme that recognises the diverging levels of economic growth, both between the regions but also within the bmw region. let us hope that this joint effort of european contribution and the irish contribution will make the bmw region move faster in terms of growth. let me make a personal comment. we all know that ireland has been a brilliant user of european funds over the years and adopted a very wise strategy, which led to this huge improvement in terms of general development when measured by gdp per capita. however, it is true that the choice was not the infrastructure, which is now an issue and where we cannot help because ireland has graduated from the objective 1 programme, where there could also be further investment in infrastructure. so this has been a very different choice from that of spain and portugal, but it is not for me to judge.
member of the commission. − everyone in this chamber will know that the commission has been a very strong and present partner in the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland for years. for the period 2007-2013, a little over eur 1.2 billion will be invested in northern ireland overall. that will come from the european social fund and the european regional development fund, but there will also be an additional amount of eur 477 million allocated to the peace 3 programme. there will also be the ifi and interreg 4 programmes, which will invest not only in northern ireland but also in the border regions of ireland. looking at the past, which was also part of the question, with regard to 1994-99 and 2000-06, the eu will have invested more than eur 2 billion for 1994-99 and nearly eur 1.8 billion for 2000-06. so, over the whole period 1994-2013, we will have invested nearly eur 5 billion in northern ireland. what is also important now, with the new taskforce and the new approach and engagement from the european commission, is that we can have benefits over and above the financial allocation, deriving from the stronger involvement of northern ireland in european policies. that is what we are working on, together with the northern ireland executive and other partners.
member of the commission. − let me say, in answer to the question of whether we will continue our presence in northern ireland after 2013, that the ifi, which, as we know, is not a commission programme to which the commission and the council are contributing, will come to an end in 2010. therefore, we do not know whether the international community will be willing to proceed with a second stage or second edition of this programme. with regard to the european programmes, northern ireland is an objective 2 programme. i sincerely hope we will continue with the objective 2 programme, because i do not believe in a regional policy which is just for part of europe, with other parts left out. if there is no objective 2, there will be no qualification for northern ireland. however, i also believe that the cross-border and transnational cooperation in which northern ireland participates – especially the new cross-border programme through ‘c’ – is also very important, because we believe that this interregional cooperation – especially with a cross-border dimension – is also very important to bring northern ireland closer to europe and to cooperation with other regions and other member states. so it is open. the commission will certainly be involved in supporting the idea of continuing this presence.
member of the commission. − the commission is aware of the threshold that was introduced by the scottish authorities. let me also say that the scottish authorities were fully transparent, throughout the negotiations, on the issue of introducing the threshold. the authorities were transparent not only with regard to the commission, in our contacts, but also within scotland, in the consultation process with all the stakeholders and partners in scotland. i should like to stress that there is an absolutely clear understanding that the threshold that was introduced does not exclude small projects, but aims to encourage those projects to group together thematically or regionally to reach the required threshold. the scottish authorities have committed themselves to ensuring that assistance is given to smaller project holders, so that smaller projects below the threshold can at any time be presented to the intermediate administrative body, which will bring them together, whenever possible, in order to build a more strategic proposal. this is, in fact, aimed at minimising the financial and audit risk of funding to small projects. it is also aimed at promoting linkages between smaller projects, to make them a part of comprehensive strategy, and aimed at reducing the administrative burden, which is often seen as a barrier to small projects. so the intention is good, and there is a mechanism to help small projects to form bigger packages that would then be presented to apply for funding.
member of the commission. − absolutely, yes. the answer would definitely be yes.
member of the commission. − the honourable member refers to the commission’s proposal to set up a european electronic communications market authority. we believe that there should be a separate entity which is independent of the commission and accountable to the european parliament, and that this entity could assist the commission in tackling the remaining problems of inconsistency in regulation, which leads to the fragmentation of european markets. i have ongoing contact with the national regulatory authorities (nras) and i take note of their views regarding the powers and responsibilities of the proposed authority. concerning the european regulators group (erg), which has expressed its preference for strengthening its own model, with a view to continuing to improve the quality, consistency and coordination of regulation across europe, i would just like to quote the erg: ‘if europe wants to play a leading role in the global economy, its 27 members will need to work closely to ensure that business can take full advantage of the european market’. that means that it does not today and that we need to find solutions so that it does in future. the impact assessment accompanying the review proposals states that the european authority would contribute to improving the efficiency of decision-making, most of all in decision-making concerning cross-border actions. we need this in order to build up the internal market. we concluded as a commission, therefore, that there is a need for a separate entity established within the community’s existing institutional structure, because the erg is today outside this structure – that means it is just a private organisation. inside the institutional structure, it would reinforce the powers of the nras by taking over the functions of the erg and giving them a foundation in community law. concerning the question of the distribution of competences, the authority would assist the commission in issues having impact on the internal market and would have an inherent crossborder character, and would draw, of course, on the expertise and the daily regulatory work of the national regulators. this system, based on the experience of 27 national regulators and the experience accumulated by the european network and information security agency (enisa), aims at reinforcing the coherence and consistency of eu rules, improving the decision-making process and contributing to promote a high and effective level of network and information security.
mr commissioner, between the triangle formed by the national regulatory authorities, the newly created european telecommunications authority and the commission, can you tell the european citizen who is being monitored where to go to complain about a measure which is affecting his legitimate interests? will the decisions of the authority under review be enforceable? does the commission itself intend to bear the additional costs of the proposed revision of the legislative framework, given the current asymmetrical development of telecommunications structures between the new and the old member states of the european union?
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, the changes in the budgetary field, on which i had the honour of being rapporteur on behalf of the committee on budgets, are among the least known but, i think, among the most interesting and characteristic of the subject under discussion today, namely the general change brought about by the treaty of lisbon in our lives. the council is to be consulted on the draft budget and on the draft budget for the financial year. the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure is abolished. we are now deciding everything as a parliament, and especially on agricultural policy, and that is very important. but there's something else going on. there is a change in the allocation of roles between parliament and council in the budgetary procedure, which is open for the future. it's something that's in front of us, something that's not given. i think that is true of the treaty of lisbon in general. the lisbon treaty brings a series of changes, a political deepening, on which we are given the opportunity to build our political agenda, a new political agenda which i think is what the european union needs today. so it is wrong to say that the treaty of lisbon is the end of the road. it is not the end of the road, it is an important step which is being taken so that we can operate within a better and more efficient framework with greater possibilities for parliament itself and this is something which is important, having of course taken into account the lessons learned from the experience of the so-called 'euro-constitution'. and it is very important that, after the end of this great adventure, europe has not become closed in on itself, has not become more defensive, has become more social: there are more social clauses, more rights. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union.
as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade and as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, i would like to say at the outset that the lisbon treaty marks the transition from a constitutional 'elite' to the reform of the european project of unification. the two treaties, which are legally equivalent, ensure that the european union is able to move forward together. at the same time, however, a europe of multiple speeds is becoming more visible. the union is thus gaining in flexibility but losing in common unifying dynamics. the member state is re-located upwards in the dialectical relationship between the supranational and the national element. parliamentarism is also emerging, reinforced by the recent european compromise, with the strengthening of the role of both the european parliament and the national parliaments. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. citizens are demanding answers to dynamic policy challenges. the citizens are interested in the quality and productivity of the outgoing policy. citizens give democratic legitimacy, directly or indirectly, to the union's decision-making bodies in the expectation that they will act effectively. the successful outcome of the ratification process, but above all the continued democratic legitimacy of the project in the eyes of european citizens, requires the opening of an in-depth political debate on the major political, economic and social direction of the union, on the relationship of european citizens with the union, on the union's place in the world. in this context, the establishment of a permanent, transparent and democratic dialogue with civil society cannot be merely a formality. it must reflect a deep politicisation of the unification project. the role of the european parliament is crucial in this politicisation. i congratulate my colleagues corbett and méndez de vigo on their fruitful and creative contribution.
in writing. the demagogic slogans for a 'more democratic' and 'more social' eu do not succeed in hiding the deeply anti-people content of the euro-treaty and the eu. the intra-imperialist contradictions are temporarily masked in the face of the pursuit of even greater attacks on workers' rights, freedoms and increase of monopoly profits. the report on the lisbon treaty, the so-called 'euro-constitution', calls on the ep to tackle the backlash and the climate of rejection by workers in the member states. the coalition of political supporters of the eu, including nd, pasok, refuse to hold referendums because they know the opposition of workers who experience the barbarity of the capitalist system and the aggressiveness of imperialism. the lisbon treaty, like the euro-constitution, strengthens the eu to operate more effectively for the benefit of european monopolies: - it reinforces the anti-people eu shielding - it is more active in promoting capitalist restructuring; it is developing new policies of exploitation of workers and infringement of their social rights. it is increasing the militarization of the eu. he embraces the doctrine of preemptive war- it entrenches imperialist interventions even in the member states; it restricts the sovereign rights of the member states; it abolishes the right of veto in favour of powerful countries; it strengthens and creates new repressive mechanisms; it further restricts individual rights and popular freedoms. eu workers have the power to condemn the euro-treaty and the eu itself.
in writing. the lisbon treaty is a step backwards in relation to the so-called euro-constitution. it retains its neo-liberal charm, as reflected in the absence of any notion of democratic control of the european central bank, the unilateral orientations of the stability pact or the deification of the uncontrolled market. it rejects certain positive symbols, open to a federal perspective (flag, anthem, etc.), as demanded by brown and the kazinsky brothers. the binding nature of the bill of rights is distorted by the self-exclusion. we are calling for a referendum to strengthen public debate and citizen participation. the rejection of the referendum expresses the distance of the european elite from the hopes and demands of the european citizens and fuels euro-dissatisfaction and euro-acceptance. the european union and the european left say no to this treaty, because we are demanding, through daily struggles, a different course for the european union. we want a europe that is more united politically, with a stronger social and environmental policy, with a drastically increased community budget, without the uncontrolled ecb, active and autonomous in the problems of world peace and not a bush oasis.
in writing. the centre-right and centre-left political forces are competing for the best support for the interests and choices of big business, and they are outstripping the commission itself in promoting the anti-worker, anti-people strategy of lisbon. the shameful resolution does not even shed the "under the treaty" crocodile tears of poverty and social exclusion. on the contrary, it calls for further reforms of labour markets and social security systems, endorses the commission's guidelines, calls for the adoption of directives on the organisation of working time and working conditions for temporary workers, and calls on the member states to put eu competitiveness at the heart of their policy making and to make the completion of the single market their top economic and political priority. the committee believes that the appropriate means of promoting these and other anti-working class measures and policies is class cooperation, achieved by broadening social dialogue and by building up a climate of trust between employers and workers. the workers have seven years of experience of this strategy and the deterioration it has caused in their living standards and in their earnings, pensions and social rights. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr frassoni, on behalf of the council, i would like to welcome your report, the report on the commission's annual report on monitoring the implementation of community legislation, as well as the additional analysis provided for in the commission's communication on the application of community law. we consider the european parliament's report to be a very useful contribution to our common objective of ensuring the timely and correct application of community law. on behalf of the council, i would like to welcome the conclusion of mrs frassoni's report, which we consider to be of fundamental importance. the court of justice has consistently held that the effectiveness of community law in the daily life of the citizens of the european union depends first and foremost on the effectiveness of the policies of the european union and, in particular, on the control and monitoring of compliance with community law by the member states. we also welcome the european parliament's commitment to promoting the exchange of best practice between member states. we believe that such exchanges could make an important contribution to a more efficient and uniform application of community law. in all this, however, i must emphasise the following: the presidency of the council is not in a position to comment on most of the questions and proposals raised in this valuable report. it is common ground that the administrative implementation of community legislation is in principle the responsibility of the member states, in accordance with their constitutional rules, and of the commission, which, as the guardian of the treaties, is responsible for monitoring the uniform application of community law.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has been a very important meeting. the commission is grateful for the opportunity to discuss this important issue with the european parliament today, and i am very grateful for the report and the contribution of mrs frassoni, which contain valuable information. i can assure you, madam president, that the commission takes your comments very seriously. the european union is a community of law, and as such it is unique in the world. only the law can guarantee the freedoms that citizens deserve, and only the law can shape the market economy so that it works for the benefit of all. the eu commission is the guardian of the treaties. it is responsible for ensuring that community law is implemented everywhere and is correctly applied everywhere. the best law is worthless as long as it exists only on paper. for every commission, therefore, one of its most important tasks will always be to ensure that our right to life is respected. we have a sharp weapon in the infringement procedure and the institution of the european court of justice. this weapon must be used when a violation of the law cannot be cured otherwise. but it is not an end in itself, and it can become dull through overuse. the commission does not believe that the number of infringement proceedings is a measure of the seriousness and determination with which it monitors compliance with community law. the commission believes that it is a question of solving problems. the real measure is how many problems we have solved in applying community law and how quickly. we have indeed critically reviewed our own working methods and have come to the following conclusions: problems which have been identified must be dealt with quickly and efficiently. citizens and businesses are entitled to quick answers. i therefore take up with the commission, mrs frassoni, what you have said on the subject of waste in campania, and this question will have to be discussed. i fully agree with you that where community law is simply ignored, there is an absolute need for tough, swift and decisive action. a partnership approach is in principle preferable to a confrontational approach. the commission therefore wants more dialogue and transparency on these issues. we also want to set clear priorities: first things first and fast, not shooting cannons at sparrows. and we need to provide the necessary resources. let me make a comment at this point. if problems accumulate in certain areas of the application of community law, this may also be due to the fact that the law itself is unclear or contradictory. we do not have to assume from the outset that the member states are ill-intentioned. as a consequence of these considerations we have taken a number of measures and i would like to put forward the principle that we will continue to have recourse to infringement procedures and will initiate them promptly when the necessary information is available. we are proposing a new method of working which will enable us to obtain the necessary information more quickly. this method is based on improving cooperation with the member states before the formal procedure is opened, except - and this is very important, madam member - of course in cases where it is clear from the outset that there is a high probability of a case of infringement. in such cases, we do not first talk to the member states, we act. this is not a completely new process, but a standard procedure where we need additional procedures or where it can bring about a quicker solution without infringement proceedings. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. this means that every input is recorded and processed. if it is formulated directly as a complaint or can be considered as a complaint, it will be treated as such and the commission will take appropriate action. we are currently testing this new working method in a pilot phase. fifteen member states are involved in the pilot project. we want to make sure that we are actually making progress and, of course, we will inform parliament of the results of the pilot phase and discuss further steps with parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we share your view, however, that this should be done even more quickly. the change to a monthly decision-making cycle - which we have had since january - helps to achieve this, and ensures that infringement proceedings are completed more efficiently and quickly. we are indeed also keen to introduce the greatest possible transparency, while at the same time maintaining the appropriate level of confidentiality required of us by the european court of justice. the public will have online access to regularly updated, summarised information on all ongoing infringement proceedings. in the interests of transparency and legal certainty, we also need to know how the member states apply community law in their respective national contexts. we therefore need - as the report calls for - correlation tables that clearly show the state of implementation in each member state. ladies and gentlemen, i think we're all on the same page. we want a community law on which the citizens can rely.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has rightly stated that the rule of law is the foundation of the european union and that community legislation is a tool for achieving the objectives of the treaties of the european union, in the interests of european citizens who have the right to demand the application of that law. the volume, scope and complexity of legislation are constantly increasing. we in the epp therefore welcome the fact that the commission's 23rd annual report on the monitoring of the application of community law and the communication on europe's achievements demonstrate its willingness to be the guardian of the treaties and to ensure that legislation is implemented. you have rightly stated that we want the correlation tables adopted by the council, and today, with the report by monica frassoni - on whose preparation the rapporteur has worked very closely with you and on which we had a very interesting hearing in parliament - we have the opportunity to say that we want parliament to be involved in the monitoring process, to be informed of your activities, to come to our committees - as you do to the committee on the environment - and to report on progress. we would of course like you to take account of the reports that come to us, as you indicate in your report, and we would also like to stress that we wish to see our decisions on immunities enforced by the national courts. the application of community law gives european citizens hope of strengthening democracy, the rule of law and of coming closer to the principles of the european union, to which we all wish a better future today, following the resolution on the new reform treaty of lisbon.
mr president, it is truly ironic and provocative for the council and the commission to invoke international law, the principles of the un and the helsinki final act, when today, by recognising kosovo's independence, they are violating all of them, including un security council resolution 1244 of 1999, which considered kosovo part of serbian territory. it is openly a change of borders imposed and led by the united states of america with the cooperation of the european union itself. stop the hypocrisy! for two years now you have been discussing how to make kosovo independent and how the european union will send troops to protect its interests in the region. we consider the situation to be very serious. it will trigger new sources of tension and destabilisation, immediately in the balkans but in the long term throughout the world, because it will set a new precedent. and it is well known that your imperialist doctrine of divide and rule. there are plans to "cut" too many countries across the planet for you to control. we believe that the peoples of the balkans and the ethnic albanians of kosovo will be faced with a new cyclone of confrontation between the united states, the european union and russia. that's why we're against it. we believe that governments should not recognize this so-called 'state' which will be a protectorate in the future and we believe that the peoples of the balkans and europe should not allow this.
mr president, where the force of law has given way to the law of force, the results have been nothing but misery. we have seen stellar speeds, we have seen space speeds developed for the sake of kosovo alone. in 40 years of diplomacy, i have never seen such speeds develop, not only in the process of declaring independence but also in the process of recognition by some european states. what they've identified is not kosovo, it's pandora's box. i, at least, have not encountered another case that could be called sui generis. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. sui generis is the installation of the military base inside kosovo. and anyway, i saw a shortcut: the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the question of the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter. what are we ? what about appeals? is this parliament an appellate court? instead of worrying about what is going to happen in kosovo tomorrow, it is better, mr president, to think about what will happen when the value of the united nations is overlooked in this insulting, contemptuous way.
the european union is not a state-builder, mr president. it integrates states. the fragmented european consensus on the kosovo problem is an admission of failure of the cfsp. the union has sacrificed its internal consensus to the political power of its member states. article 11 of the treaty on european union requires that the union's action be in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter, the helsinki final act and the objectives of the charter of paris, including those relating to external borders. the european union is a union of law, as mr salafranca said, so what is the basis of the european trend? in particular, the tendency of the member states which have advocated urgent recognition from the point of view of international law? security council resolution 1244 of 1999 does not provide sufficient justification and legitimacy. the point in the conclusions of the general affairs and external relations council on the sui generis nature of the kosovo case, i.e. that this case is not precedent - i hope it is not precedent - but is unique, is accompanied by a specific reference to adherence to the fundamental principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, which, as expressly stated, are not in doubt. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that these are principles which form the hard core of the international legal acquis.
mr president, we are facing an event which may have important consequences not only for the balkan region but also internationally. the claim that it is a sui generis case does not cover us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. for the first time, we have a border change without the consent of the parties concerned and without the approval of the security council. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is also doubtful whether the force of two thousand can guarantee security and stability in the region. the declaration of independence of kosovo is now a fact. we support a peaceful, multinational kosovo, integrated into the european union. the solution to the crisis can only be to strengthen the accession process of the western balkans and to achieve their full membership as soon as possible. the european union is also calling for the immediate signing of the association and stabilisation agreement with serbia, as the only way of providing effective support to the democratic forces in the country. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force.
in writing. eight years after the nato war in yugoslavia, the problem of kosovo is not only unresolved, it has become even more intractable. the criteria of 'standards before status' (i.e. democracy, return of refugees, conditions of multicultural coexistence, etc., before the final status is decided) set by unscr 1244 have not been met in principle. nevertheless, the albanian leadership in kosovo was pushed by the bush administration towards unilateral independence, with all that this entails for peace and stability in the balkans, but also for other international problems. the european union, by approving a new mission in the region, is 'signating' this policy and contributing to the violation of un resolution 1244 of 1999. the unilateral independence of kosovo will cause chain reactions of destabilization in the western balkans and set a negative precedent for many international problems. the solution must be sought on the basis of international law and in a way that favours neither the politics of 'divide and rule' of the powerful, nor local nationalisms and big ideologies, nor border changes. we believe that there is still scope for a mutually acceptable solution within the framework of the un, on the basis of international law. that is why we are in favour of continuing the negotiations.
the chairman of the council. - no, i don't have those numbers. but i can confirm two. first, the effects of the common market benefit all, old and new member states, all those who are part of that common market. there can be no doubt about this, as is also shown by the european commission's 2006 report entitled 'enlargement two years later', which also mentions and quantifies the positive effects of both the enlarged common market and other aspects. however, as regards the structural funds, it is not only the amount of resources allocated to the specific purposes of the structural funds that is important, but also the quality of the use of these resources. and i can also say that when these funds are well spent, it also contributes to a higher per capita income in the countries where these funds are spent.
the chairman of the council. - i just want to comment. the irish example was mentioned, the irish case. you are certainly right, mr. higgins. ireland is an example, a model, an example of how to contribute to faster development by using cohesion and structural funds well and efficiently. when i say ireland is a model and an example, i mean it. in fact, many countries, especially those that joined the european union in 2004 and 2007, are trying to take over as much of ireland's experience and know-how in using these instruments as possible in order to achieve similar successful results as ireland has achieved.
the chairman of the council. − in december 2007, the council adopted eight common principles on flexible safety in the form of conclusions, following extensive studies carried out by the european institutions and the social partners, among others. these principles have subsequently been endorsed by the european council. in these conclusions, the council stated that the common principles should make a decisive contribution to the implementation of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy. the commission has recently presented a proposal for integrated guidelines for the period 2008-2010. it is expected that the council will pay particular attention to the issue of flexible security in the discussions on this proposal, which have already begun. the responsibility for implementing the integrated guidelines will be assumed by the member states. they are expected to refer to their flexible security arrangement when reporting to the council and the commission on the implementation of these guidelines. the council considers that citizens should be made aware of the need for flexible security policies and the importance of these policies in reforming europe's economic and social models. in its conclusions, it therefore invited the commission to launch a public initiative to facilitate the adoption of the common principles by the relevant labour market stakeholders. the council also asked the commission to keep it informed of the measures in question. the slovenian presidency is certainly prepared to continue its work on the important legislative proposals in the field of employment relations, namely the working time directive and the temporary work directive. however, given the difficulty of reaching consensus among member states, we are still assessing possible follow-up procedures with regard to the legislative acts mentioned. in this respect, it should be noted that there are many different traditions in the field of employment regulation in europe. it is true that the member states agreed on common principles of flexible security relatively quickly. however, they have already pointed out that these principles must be adapted to the specific circumstances of each member state. all this indicates that it will be more difficult to reach agreement in the search for solutions on binding legislation that should apply to all labour markets in the union.
madam president, the citizens of each member state - employers and workers - are under pressure in their employment relations, partly due to globalisation but also imposed by the open method of coordination which has been applied by the european union for many years. there are therefore objections to the proposals for the consolidation of insurance systems and to other measures based on the same open method of coordination. does the council intend to propose corrective measures to improve industrial relations at european level so that there are not the strong reactions and protests we are seeing on television in all the member states?
i think, commissioner, that after all that you hear repeated over and over again from all your colleagues, you will put the demographic problem as one of the main issues on the renewed social agenda which we are waiting for as your proposal for 2008. with a life cycle approach as planned, demographic developments are linked to the need to monitor and forecast future skills needs for a dynamic human capital in the labour market, to enhance the hope of maintaining the comparative advantage of the european union's growth potential. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. horizontal action will provide the solution. in line with the commission communication, the problems that require good practice at national, regional and local level in a number of areas are presented. the first thing that is needed here is to strengthen intergenerational solidarity by providing - as has been said so many times - a range of material and moral support to the family, wherever it is, in the city or in the remote village, to its members, whatever their age, whatever their origin, whether they are local or immigrant. the fact that families live in a member state must enable them to develop their potential as sources of wealth. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by ambroise guellec, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the fourth report on economic and social cohesion (2007/2148 (ini)) (a6-0023/2008), and by gisela kallenbach, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the follow-up to the implementation of the territorial agenda and the leipzig charter: towards a european action programme for spatial development and territorial cohesion (2007/2190 (ini)) (a6-0028/2008).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. cohesion policy is important because it has helped the economic and social development of many regions. it reduced distances between regions, brought regions closer to the average and reduced differences within the same region. there is still much to be done. the uniform growth has not been achieved. there are variations that are often sharp. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders is a very good one. new member states have joined with regions far below the average. the term territorial cohesion as described in the treaty of lisbon needs further elaboration and analysis. finally, particular attention should be paid to isolated areas and island regions, as in greece, where cohesion policies will significantly help the local population to remain in their place of residence, to have work, access to new technologies, professional opportunities and to converge towards the community average. for these reasons, increased funding the term in the report is the right of cohesion policy should be ensured for the period after 2013 as well. the challenges are significant and cohesion policy should not be delayed or delayed because of economic inadequacy when all sides recognise its usefulness. in conclusion, i welcome the statements made today by commissioner hübner and the commission's determination to pursue cohesion policy, and we look forward to the green paper and the conclusions it will contain.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european parliament once again confirms its clear position on the importance and role of cohesion policy, the policy that brings europe closer to the citizen. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. both reports contain points in that direction. i would like to mention the importance of:- partnership involving all levels and, in particular, local actors; - synergy between community policies, and particularly cohesion policy and rural development policy; - the design of policies and actions to promote the multicentral development of the european union's territories, with particular emphasis on the countryside; - the important role that small and medium-sized towns can play; and finally, - the fight against intra-regional inequalities, youth unemployment and the high rates of poverty in many regions of the european union.
in writing. the crime of the israeli authorities against the palestinians continues with even harsher measures: months of blockade of movement of people, goods and food, bans on access to drinking water, electricity and other basic services, while attacks and killings of civilians by the israeli army continue. the tears shed by the resolution over the plight of the palestinian people are crocodile tears. because the eu and the us are part of the problem. the imperialist interests are the agents of israel in its criminal policy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in a way that is compatible with the principles of the european union. the plans of the quartet have proved the failure of yet another imperialist enterprise, and the annapolis accords will have the same effect. the proposal to revive them is intended to throw ashes in the eyes of the people and essentially equates victims and perpetrators. the solution to the palestinian problem cannot be found by the imperialists, but by the struggles of the palestinian and israeli peoples themselves and by international solidarity in their struggle for peaceful coexistence through the creation of an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital.
in writing. the objective of economic and social cohesion was to create illusions among workers that it was possible to reduce social and regional disparities and raise the standard of living of workers in countries and regions which differed from the community average. but the law of uneven growth under capitalism is relentless. these contradictions are growing, the poor getting poorer and the rich getting richer. this is the daily experience of the workers. but in the face of the onslaught of capitalist restructuring and the full-scale attack on labour rights, even the phraseological use of this term tends to disappear, disappearing with it the crumbs that were available in the community budget. in the third phase of the implementation of the lisbon treaty, all policies must be replaced by the magic word for imperialism, competition. competition between states, regions, workers, the rule of the law of the jungle. the resolution is limited to exaggerated statements and wishful thinking which do not touch on the substance of the problem. only workers' struggles, disobedience and insubordination to the eu's anti-worker and anti-people policies can reverse the deterioration of the living conditions of the popular strata that is increasing today even in the most developed countries.
madam president, as you know, in recent weeks the talks between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the name that this country will use in its relations with all the international organizations have entered a sensitive phase. the discussions are taking place within the framework of un resolutions. the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs, mr xavier solana, referring to greece's stated intention to veto its prospect of nato membership if the name issue is not resolved first, made strange statements about european principles and values during his recent visit to skopje on 27 february, including that he did not like the veto. given that greece has been an active and equal member of the european union for 27 years, we call on mr solana, instead of making it difficult for a member state to negotiate with a country that wants to join nato and the european union, to take into account that he represents the member states of the union, to respect their sensitivities, to contribute to the solution of problems and to demonstrate the expected community solidarity, which he derives as an obligation from the office he holds. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the pse group. the recent pressure exerted by the us government on individual european governments to grant the privilege of visa exemption must be strongly condemned and substantial sanctions imposed. in no case, mr vice-president of the commission, should the opposite be the case, that is, should the commission use as a pretext to incorporate into european law, under the pretext of maintaining solidarity, the unacceptable demands of an american government which already sees the door of exit and whose president, just the day before yesterday, vetoed a bill prohibiting torture by american intelligence services. the bilateral demands and pressures of the united states are an attack on the sovereignty of individual member states and the fundamental rights of their citizens. greece and 11 of the 12 new member states are being pressured to hand over to the us security authorities access to a range of highly sensitive personal data, which is not required of the rest of europe, as if they were europe's poor relatives or the test subjects of america's new security measures! secondly, the measures are contrary to the common visa policy, because, as we know, third countries are supposed to treat all european countries equally. they cannot divide us into good and bad europeans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and yet the united states continues! thirdly, the measures violate the recent international pnr agreement between europe and america, which explicitly defines what americans can and cannot take. fourthly, the measures violate european legislation on the collection and processing of data, such as schengen, and you were right to say that the americans are asking for access to this data. madam president, the american government, by its beloved divide and rule method, is advancing whatever interests it has. the question is what europe is doing to protect its dignity, its laws and its citizens. unfortunately, the answer so far is disheartening: on the one hand, the european commission has for years failed to win over the us to extend the visa waiver programme to all european countries on the same terms, thus opening the door to bilateral bargaining. the czech republic, on the other hand, has been urged to accept the new illegal conditions, undermining social policy and solidarity. in the midst of this eldorado of political pressure and secret negotiations, it is encouraging that you, mr vice-president, have reacted today. in the above context, however, please give us an explicit answer: firstly, do you intend to take action against member states which conclude bilateral agreements with america? will you take the czech republic to the european court of justice if it is found that the implementing measures of the agreement violate community law? secondly, have you asked other european governments, who are also negotiating with america today, not to succumb to similar pressures? if so, which governments have you spoken to or are you in contact with? what exactly do you tell them is allowed or forbidden to do? thirdly, if the american government continues its policy, what specific measures do you intend to take against a third country which is violating european policy and law? and fourthly, can you assure us, mr vice-president, that you will not propose and agree to any changes to the current pnr agreement, the common european visa policy or other european policies towards the complete breach of the personal data of european citizens, which is unfortunately being promoted by the usa?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the average user, when he is connected to the internet, is not aware that his most sensitive personal data, such as his political and philosophical beliefs, his financial situation, his purchases, his travels and his interests in general are recorded as he does simple searches, makes purchases or participates in discussions. yes, you are. the private companies that collect this data are often not even european, and today there are neither european laws nor international agreements that put obstacles in the way of the use of our personal data by large private companies or even - i stress this - the uncontrolled access of security authorities of third countries to this data. why does europe have the responsibility and the opportunity to participate? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. our personal data does not cease to be important and interesting just because a company is located outside europe. i have three specific proposals, mr president: firstly, it is essential that citizens themselves be asked to give their explicit consent to any collection, let alone use, of their personal data, as is also provided for in the directive i have mentioned. not in fine print, but loud and clear! today, even citizens who wish to delete their data or stop sharing it with third parties often cannot find a way around the complex web pages. they are deliberately designed to be untraceable so that companies can then, with special machines and programs, find their interests and sell them products or be found by security authorities for other reasons. secondly, it is necessary - and i am glad that mr frattini said this - for the european commission to look at the mergers of these companies not only on the basis of economic analyses but also on the basis of the personal data of citizens who may be or could be breached. we are not just a community of markets and money, we are first and foremost a community of values. thirdly, mr president, and i will close with this, the debate today opens up a great chapter which we have not yet seriously touched. but they do it worldwide. we need a global charter of fundamental rights for internet users. there's no such thing today. there is no such thing! but big brother, mr. president, in this day and age, will not come about because some dictatorship will impose it. it will happen because our entire lives are now electronically tagged in the internet, and if we can't all come together and find principles to protect us, tomorrow morning we will wake up and it will be a very different and - i believe - a much worse world, however usable and pleasant and magical it may seem to us today.
mr president, let me first of all express my deep satisfaction at the agreement that has finally been reached on the amendment of the regulation on the establishment of common rules on civil aviation safety. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr costa, on his work and the representatives of the political groups, mr jarzembowski and mr khadraoui, who, together with our rapporteur, formed the nucleus of our negotiating team. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would also like to thank all the members of the european parliament delegation, which i had the honour of chairing, for their cooperation at all stages and especially at the crucial moments. let me commend the continuous effort of the portuguese presidency to reach agreement and the constructive and catalytic contribution of the european commission, with the presence and participation of commissioner barrot. the new regulation is not just the result of a successful negotiation. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the commission and the council. it is the result of experience gained in applying safety rules. it better expresses the need for transparency and accountability by all the actors involved. it provides an effective framework for safe passenger mobility in a globalised environment, while enabling member states to adapt their policy to new developments and the specific needs that may arise in a given period. it also requires them to be transparent and to bear part of the cost, which was important for the european parliament. in parallel with these obligations of the member states, the european commission has committed itself to producing a report by the end of 2008 which will make the greatest possible contribution to this, and the european parliament will then be prepared to play its effective role in monitoring the implementation of the implementing measures.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 1994 to 1999 is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i would like to make three suggestions for the package of two reports we are discussing today. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european solidarity fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to respond to the floods in the united kingdom in a timely manner. it is indeed the fastest reaction, at least as far as i remember the functioning of this fund. but it also sets a precedent: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not need to remind you of the shocking images of the great catastrophe of the fires in greece, which we all saw in europe. i hope, therefore, that within the next month, in proportion, we shall finally have the commission's proposal in hand. the second point i want to make is about the spectacle we are presenting at the moment. i do not know how parliament does it, but every time we have good news, we are the only ones who know about it! there's us and us, there's no one in the theaters, i doubt there's any reporters! when will we learn to trade the good news properly? the third and final point concerns galileo. i agree with all my colleagues from the committee on budgets and, as rapporteur for the committee on budgets on galileo, i want to be clear that we are not going to make any payment out of the very substantial package of resources we have committed unless we agree with the council on the wider architecture of the programme. if we do not know who is doing what - and we do not know that yet, we are negotiating it with the council - we are not going to spend. we'll have no overhead. we have a very important trialogue with the slovenian presidency tomorrow morning. there are two big unfinished business. i hope we can close this negotiation so that we can enter into the logic of progress.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity is a beautiful word, an even more beautiful concept, and unfortunately it is also a great need, and the facts show that this need is increasingly exacerbated by natural disasters, which we should no longer call 'natural disasters' but a phenomenon of our lives, which is becoming more and more frequent. in 2007 alone -- in the summer months of 2007 -- we had three very serious events. firstly, the united kingdom, which is the subject of the debate and vote today; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. i am surprised when colleagues say that they do not understand what the european union is doing with money, because it is not just money, it is also the psychological help it offers and the feeling to the inhabitants of these areas that the european union is taking account of their drama - because it is often drama - and that it is doing something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not by chance that our country, greece, is next on the list for assistance from the solidarity fund, and we hope that in our case too aid will be given within a short time. i am not sure that this will happen, and i wonder whether this is due to the european union and the way it deals with the requests or the way the request was submitted by greece itself. but that doesn't matter. what we hope is that help will be given quickly to greece, because, i assure you, the situation in greece is still dramatic and the problem is that the greek money given to the fund has not yet been notified.
in writing. i refused to vote in favour of the final compromise of the european parliament and the council because i am opposed to the armed guards in flight measure, given the increased additional checks passengers undergo on the ground before boarding aircraft. i think that is an excessive measure. it sacrifices passenger rights in the name of flight safety. it is not in keeping with the principle of proportionality and will ultimately be a financial burden for the passenger citizens. we call on the governments of the member states, and in particular the greek government, not to proceed with its implementation, making use of the margin they have.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate mrs jeggle and all the coordinators who have really tried to strike a balance in a particularly sensitive area such as milk quotas, a policy from which the farmers, the european farmers, expect great and radical changes. commissioner, it is particularly positive that in the face of a change in the supply and demand for dairy products, the commission has reacted by amending one of the most basic regulations, increasing national quotas by 2% for the period 2007-2008. i would like to point out that the flexibility shown by the commission in relation to the development of the agricultural and foodstuffs markets is acceptable, especially at a time when the livestock sector is facing sustainability issues due to the crisis on the international market. however, it is also a matter of principle that the same crisis cannot be addressed by the same measures and policies for all types and sizes of livestock holdings. i would therefore stress that the commission and the council should, in the course of their discussions, also re-examine the issue of fat content, so as to avoid distortions of competition to the detriment of those countries for which a low fat content has been defined.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr lutz goepel on his report and, given the short time available, to stress certain principles which should govern any revision of the common agricultural policy, whether in the communication or in the legislative text. firstly, the redefinition of the european agricultural model cannot leave small and mediumsized family-run businesses behind. secondly, the question of financing, which will have to be resolved later, must not be based on the logic of cofinancing, which in effect re-nationalizes the common agricultural policy. thirdly, the question of regionalisation, which by itself cannot solve the market and food problems, must be reviewed and given the right dimension. fourthly, injustices which have been done to certain products such as tobacco should be withdrawn and re-introduced and treated as other products.
member of the commission. - madam president, in reply to mr arnaoutakis' question, i must first say that the world economy is in a process of slowing down, of cooling down, in climatological terms. financial turbulence continues; the us economy is in a sharp slowdown - some say it is already on the verge of recession -; commodity prices, oil and other commodities, are rising; all this has a negative impact on growth, although growth in the world economy remains appreciable. the european economy is coping relatively well with these difficulties. in our recent forecasts, presented on 21 february, we have talked about growth for the european union this year of 2%, a 1.8% for the euro area. so there is an impact on the european economy, but the size of that impact should not be overstated. as regards external trade, the latest figures published by eurostat show that for 2007, the first estimate is for a trade deficit in the european union of eur 27 billion out of 185 billion - a sizeable trade deficit, but in any case smaller than that of many other parts of the industrialized countries - and the euro area has a trade surplus of eur 28.3 billion. in a global economy characterised by major imbalances, our external sector is therefore generally balanced. and not just our foreign sector, our public accounts are basically as well. thirdly, the best way of dealing with the crisis in the world economy is to maintain the structural reforms and macroeconomic policies which have enabled us to clean up our public accounts, improve the stability of our economies, improve our capacity for growth and cope better than in the past with financial turbulence. fourthly, there are concrete problems to be faced as a result of these turbulences. we have already referred to them in the previous debate, and i shall not repeat them. but i do remind the honourable member and the house that there are those roadmaps, approved by the ecofin council in october, which set out how to react to these financial turbulences. and fifthly, i should also remind the honourable member and parliament that in october 2006 we adopted a strategy for the european union's external economic action, the 'global europe' programme, which sets out a new european trade policy to improve our competitiveness abroad, with strategies relating to market access, the protection of intellectual property rights, open public procurement abroad, trade defence instruments, a policy of not only multilateral agreements within the world trade organisation, but also a new generation of bilateral trade agreements to complement that effort to make progress in multilateral negotiation in the doha round. to conclude this answer, let us remember that the facts show, and particularly for the european economies, that market integration, globalization and trade liberalization are beneficial for our economies and bring with them far more benefits than inconveniences or difficulties. globalisation and, at european level, the single market are essential tools for us to improve our competitiveness and - as we europeans know very well, probably better than anyone else in the world - protectionism is not the solution.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to ask you whether the commission has any estimate of how this international credit crisis will affect sectors such as tourism and shipping, which, in particular for my country greece, account for 21% of gdp, and what measures it intends to take.
member of the commission. as the honourable member knows, the foreign exchange markets in the vast majority of countries, and particularly in the most advanced industrialised economies, are markets governed by flexible exchange rates. it is the law of supply and demand that sets exchange rates at every moment. what we should hope for is that all the actors, all the players in the global economy and, in particular, in the foreign exchange markets, will adhere to the guidelines we have agreed in the framework of the g7, in the framework of the international monetary fund, in the multilateral consultations, which took place a year ago now, to try to deal with the global imbalances in the economy. and one of the conclusions of those multilateral consultations was about the need to let the foreign exchange markets freely reflect the fundamentals of each economy, and that's the best way that those exchange rates don't collectively harm the actors, the participants in the international markets. so far, for the euro area, if we look at the figures published by eurostat for the year 2007 - the first eurostat figures for the year 2007, published on 15 february - over the past year, exports of the euro area countries - then thirteen countries - grew by 8% the previous year, while imports grew by 6%. but it is also true that we are concerned about the evolution of exchange rates, and in particular about the developments of the last few weeks. and that was said following the last eurogroup meeting last week, both by the president of the eurogroup, the president of the european central bank and myself as commissioner for economic affairs. and we take note of the willingness, on the one hand, of the american authorities, who continue to repeat publicly that they are interested in maintaining a strong currency. we take note of the announcements, the declarations of intent by the authorities of countries such as china and other emerging asian economies, who say that they are aware of the need to introduce more and more flexibility in the management of these exchange rates.
member of the commission. − i am sure that mr mavrommatis recalls that qtrax recently announced a new agreement with several major labels to offer the first free and legal advertisement-supported peer-to-peer service with major music labels on their website. it happened at the midem conference in cannes in january. however, it seems that no deal is currently in place that would allow free downloads of their music catalogues. indeed, in reaction to the qtrax announcement, the four major companies have publicly stated that no deal has yet been finalised, although negotiations are ongoing. at this stage, there are still uncertainties as to how many agreements qtrax will eventually sign with the major music labels and as to the content and the scope of these agreements. it is therefore too early to make any preliminary assessment of the impact on competition in the online music industry. however, it is clear that such a service would not only have to be licensed by the record labels, but the authors who wrote and composed the music would also, of course, have to be part of the agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i ask you again, commissioner: should the other companies, which are not protected, cease to operate and leave the rights of thousands of creators unprotected, at a time when online music services are becoming increasingly powerful? or should i believe mr mccreevy, who told us that such a directive would be brought to the european parliament in 2010?
member of the commission. - thank you very much for the follow-up questions. it shows that culture and identity, memory are important, and also the forward-looking or the development of culture. we are helping to achieve this, and i repeat, subsidiarity is about responsibility, not about an alibi for not cooperating, because that is the competence of the member states. the commission is really trying to create the best possible environment for cultural dialogue, exchange, cooperation and i think the fruits are very obvious. i mentioned the programme, we can compare the figures, seven years ago, seven years now, but what i want to say is very important, for example, that last year for the first time it was possible, from the commission's point of view, but also from the point of view of the union as a whole, to push through, to agree on a common european cultural agenda in the age of globalisation. it was proposed in may and approved by the member states in november. secondly, we were able to agree that in the area of culture, the cultural agenda, we will use the new method of cooperation the open method of coordination. before, most would have said that it was impossible, or that there was such a divergence of opinion that we would not agree. but what is crucial in this is the content itself, because it is important that the cooperation is focused on the practical needs of culture in the broad sense, but also of the cultural or creative sectors, so that culture simply grows. what was achieved for the first time last year was the lisbon council conclusions for the spring, when the cultural sectors, or so-called cultural industries, are mentioned for the first time in the lisbon strategy as an important contribution to economic growth and employment. it helps to overcome the classic dichotomy that culture costs money and business makes money. where there is culture, there are values, there are also economic dimensions developed, healthy and sustainable. where there is no culture, there is no business, no politics, nothing. i am saying that culture must be seen as an important aspect and must be supported from different angles in order to succeed, and i am therefore pleased that the commission is also doing better in this more horizontal approach, also on the basis of last year's decisions. to answer this question in a nutshell, the new member states contribute their cultures, their vast heritage, a fresh memory of a divided europe or a past that is much more dramatic in the second half of the 20th century, but in many ways they can also learn from the older states, for example by funding culture much more vitally, developing cultural education and many issues that simply need to be raised in the new member states as well. culture cannot be a residual, in terms of politics or the state, that what increases, we put on culture, of course, something is needed, but it is not a priority, it is not a central theme. secondly, i'd like to say that mr. rack has carried the burden of the past. memory is important, i've already indicated, for identity, memory teaches us not to repeat the tragedies of the past, and i just reminded bernd posselt of the citizenship programme. the citizens' programme allows the european union to co-finance projects to commemorate the dictatorships and the victims of nazism and stalinism during these seven years. i think this is a very important challenge, because it allows us to remember that all this - freedom, democracy, a common europe - is not something that happens by chance or automatically, that certain temptations to totalitarianism, to some kind of simplification, always exist, to a greater or lesser extent, and that we need to develop values in each generation, because technologies, buildings, are very easily inherited, but values must be instilled in the minds and consciences of all from childhood. so i would rather encourage you to use these instruments in cultural or civic cooperation, to use them for the sake of memory, for the sake of conscience, and i am convinced that this is precisely the role of those who have survived such periods, who remember, who are from countries that may have been in such a grey zone or behind the iron curtain, but in any case today's union should be a space for memory and for building the community.
member of the commission. − settlement of the dispute referred to by the honourable member would be facilitated if the european union showed to the complainant that its regulatory procedure was working satisfactorily and led to approvals without undue delay, whenever risks to health or the environment were not identified or were manageable. furthermore, a solution would have to be found regarding the national safeguard measures subject to the wto proceedings, which are found not to be scientifically based and thus not to be compatible with wto rules. in both cases, the commission needs to count on cooperation by member states. the obligations on us, therefore, are clear and we cannot evade our responsibilities. meanwhile, the united states has agreed not to move to immediate retaliation. however, respective proceedings could resume following a determination by a compliance panel that the european union has failed to implement the wto panel rulings. the effective functioning of the european union regulatory system on genetically modified organisms is not only of interest to the wto complainants but also to the european union itself. most of our current sources of animal feed are countries developing biotechnology products. therefore, our timely authorisation of safe gmo products for feed use is necessary to ensure the competitiveness of the livestock industry in the eu. for example, the eu pork industry is facing increasing difficulties in obtaining feed at reasonable prices, while prices for porkmeat are falling. in other words, the longer the delay for our authorisations, the greater the risk to farming needs in europe.
madam president, commissioner, in the event of a trade war between the european union and the united states of america over genetically modified organisms, what is the range (amount) of possible sanctions under consideration and how will they be applied?
i would also like to congratulate mrs christa klaß on her initiative in drawing up this report and her entire work on such an important subject, which is not only about defending women's rights but also about economic, social and regional cohesion in europe. it is the second time that the committee on women's rights has produced such a report, and i had the honour of being the rapporteur on the previous report on the position of women in rural areas in the run-up to the revision of the common agricultural policy. the important issue of recognition of the work of participating spouses and selfemployed persons, which we have since brought to the attention of the commission, has unfortunately not yet been dealt with effectively and we have had to repeat it in this report. we are therefore calling once again for a radical revision of directive 86/613/eec, because the european commission itself recognises that its implementation is ineffective and that little progress has been made in recognising the work of spouses involved in agricultural activities, and i am glad that the commissioner responsible is here tonight and will be able to answer this question. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i have therefore argued that statistics should provide information on these distinct categories. i also believe that, since the structural funds regulations allow us to do so, we must make use of the possibility of women in rural areas participating in decision-making and planning for development in their areas. we shall contribute to the objective of their activation, the objective of cohesion. in any case, the report by mrs klaß sets out priorities and issues and sets targets for all of us and is a useful and valuable tool for both the european parliament and the european commission.
member of the commission. − madam president, my thanks to all those who have contributed to this discussion. as always happens, it is very difficult to concentrate only on biogas – we then start a discussion on all renewable energies. this whole discussion is based on the energy report published by the commission last january, because we could suddenly see that we were depending heavily on imports of energy, especially from our eastern neighbours, and secondly: how could we contribute to the reduction of co2 or greenhouse gas emissions? suddenly all the different ideas were put on the table. when we talk about the transport sector, 10% needs to come from renewable energies by 2020, and here the agricultural sector was the first supplier – and is at this stage the only supplier. we all know – and we have heard it today as well – about the competition between food, feed and fuel. this will be a discussion as long as we are in the first generation of those different biofuels. i therefore completely agree with those who have underlined the necessity of investing heavily in research and development so that we can pass through the first generation and enter into the second generation. it is crucial for it to be economically viable in the future, which it is not today with the different types of renewable energies. we need to be able to find the ‘golden solution’, so that it becomes economically sustainable. another issue is sustainability – environmental sustainability. here we have a very clear approach. we will not accept renewable energies that are not produced in a sustainable way, and this is related both to production within the european union and to renewable energies that will be imported from overseas. we will need imports. do not try to convince anyone that we can rely exclusively on european production. that is simply not possible; we will need imports. i think it is a splendid idea to continue working hard on biogas. here we use waste – slurry – and all the residue from slaughterhouses, which is a very good component in this production process. from an agricultural-environmental point of view this can solve some of the problems that some member states, some regions, are facing with the nitrates directive, as mentioned here tonight. it can help solve these problems as well. i think there are lots of possibilities in the renewable energy sector, but we need to push for further investments to be able to make it a viable solution for the future. once again my thanks to the rapporteur. it has been a very good report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy statistics (com (2006) 0850, c6-0035/2007 - 2007/0002 (cod)) (a6-0487/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistics on plant protection products (com (2006) 0778 - c6-0457/2006 - 2006/0258 (cod)) (a6-0004/2008).
the commissioner will not intervene at the end of this debate. mrs doyle's questions will be answered in writing, as she has informed us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
mr president, on the day when the european parliament is celebrating its 50th anniversary, i expected the representatives of the commission and the council to come here with greater honesty and more modesty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in those years, social inequalities increased, poverty increased. the lisbon objectives - your own objectives, mr barroso, who is not listening to me now because he is talking to his colleague - you have forgotten the objective of social cohesion and the objective of environmental protection, mr barroso! in kosovo you forgot the un and international law! and you, gentlemen of the council, instead of pushing the barroso package on climate change more ambitiously, are trying to stifle it! i thought you'd be talking about this, not congratulating each other.
as you know, mr president, commissioner, next year will be the european year of innovation and creativity, further demonstrating that the european union is putting a lot of its hopes in supporting its competitiveness and meeting the challenges of globalisation into innovation, in promoting research, knowledge, the so-called 'knowledge triangle'. community and national policies in the fields of employment, youth support and, in particular, education, must pursue these ambitious objectives and make systematic and coordinated efforts at regional, national and community level to unlock the european union's considerable knowledge and research potential. in this context, however, i would also like to stress that the recognition of the freedom of movement of knowledge as the so-called 'fifth freedom' is essential and should be emphasized in the european council. at community level, we must also acknowledge the important initiative taken in this context through the erasmus and comenius programmes and stress that the new programme, in particular erasmus mundus, which allows mobility outside the european union and also allows mobility for doctoral students, is an initiative which will have the full support of parliament. it is up to the member states to strengthen the coordination measures based on bologna and to make this mobility possible in practice.
in writing. the organisation of the milk market is governed by the dictates of the monopoly undertakings in the sector, which control most of the market and are now pushing for full market liberalisation in order to maximise their profits. the commission's proposal for a 'soft landing' policy and an increase in quotas of 2% each year until 2014, when the current regulation expires, is likely to exacerbate the inequalities in the allocation of quotas between member states and to lead to a slow death for small and medium-sized livestock farmers, who are facing serious survival problems, especially after the significant increases in feed prices. we are radically opposed to the liberalisation of the dairy market and we believe that a non-linear increase in national quotas is necessary in order to give additional increases to member states where production quotas are traditionally in deficit, such as greece where production covers only 50% of domestic consumption. we support the efforts of farmers to take immediate measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly in mountain and island regions and other areas with particular difficulties, especially where the present situation leads to abandonment of agricultural and livestock activities.
in writing. the revision of the common agricultural policy needs different priorities and of course more resources to succeed. the abandonment of agricultural land and the reduction of production lead to the withering away of the countryside and to a deterioration in the role of the primary sector in the social and economic fabric. we are calling for a fundamental reform of the cap, with measures to help small and mediumsized farmers to continue to produce, while preserving the rural population, biodiversity and protecting the environment and public health. we are calling for a common agricultural insurance policy against all risks - not only weather, but also nutritional and market imbalance risks. we are opposed to the priority of harmonizing agricultural policies with the objectives and negotiations of the wto. we want an agricultural policy which provides quality and cheap food for all, and that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. the proposals for the cap's 'health check' are a new attack on small and medium-sized farmers. the results of the 2003 cap revision are being felt by small and medium-sized farmers, with unemployment rising as thousands of small and medium-sized farmers are being wiped out. in greece, tobacco production has fallen by 70%, two of the five sugar factories have closed, farm income has shrunk, vineyards will be trampled. the new commission proposals decouple aid from production, transfer direct payment resources for farmers to the second pillar, where the main operators are active, abolish intervention altogether, reduce agricultural funds from 2009, accelerating the clearance of small and medium-sized farmers. these measures are designed to give greater support to large farmers and multinational food companies so that they can concentrate land, production and marketing of agricultural products more rapidly in a few hands, exacerbating the basic inequalities and injustices of the cap (20% of farms receive 80% of subsidies). the report on agriculture which will help to protect the environment is hypocritical, because the uprooting of thousands of small and mediumsized farmers increases the desertification of the regions, while the use of crops for biofuels will contribute to the increase in food prices. we are voting against the eu proposals for the cap's 'health check'.
the minutes of the sitting of tuesday 11 march have been distributed. are there any comments on these? (parliament adopted the minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make an important announcement regarding the votes at noon. for some technical reason, the results of roll-call votes as they appeared on the table and were announced by the president of the sitting do not exactly correspond to the actual number recorded by the voting machine. but be careful! we stress that the outcome of the votes was not altered in any way, as the majorities remained unchanged. in these circumstances, the votes at noon should under no circumstances be called into question and are taken for granted. the results to be published in the annex to today's minutes will be the actual results. it is understood that the technical services are making every effort to identify the cause of this malfunction and that all functions will be restored for tomorrow's voting.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by ana maria gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the role of the european union in iraq (2007/2181 (ini)) (a6-0052/2008).
madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs gomes, but i would also like to congratulate the commissioner, in whom we have seen a sense of human sensitivity to what is happening in iraq today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not something that happens for the first time. 820 million we're giving today to help the iraqis. we can't help the dead. today's dead are many times the number of dead that saddam hussein paid for. those responsible for today's deaths will they pay someday? i say this because it happened to us in yugoslavia. if, madam president, we do not like dictators and their methods - and we should not like them - let us find a way to get rid of dictators every time. we have no reason to destroy countries because we don't like dictators. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years, and it is a great help to the people of europe in the future.
the chairman of the council. - first, on the additional question from the honourable member, mrs harkin. in any case, in the view of the council, in the view of the presidency, a consolidated text of the treaty, the treaty of lisbon, is necessary. we are expecting it, as i said in another debate today, we are expecting it in mid-april and we are expecting it to be published in the official journal of the european union in the first half of may. some may think it's too late. but you have to be aware of the fact that this is a very demanding, legal, editorial task. it is a complex text and, on top of that, it is necessary to prepare an official, refined, consolidated text in all 23 official languages of the european union. so, taking these aspects into account, it did not take long, however, to arrive at an official, consolidated version of the text. there are informal versions, and i thank mr mitchell for pointing this out, but the informal versions are the informal versions and cannot be considered as the official text. there are several, including one from the dublin institute. it's a useful read, it's a useful read, but it can't replace the official version, which of course took some time. as regards the second part of the supplementary question by mr mitchell, i can say on behalf of the presidency, on behalf of the council, that at this stage there is no short or long list of possible or actual candidates, there is no - there has been no discussion on this issue in the council so far. this debate will probably have to take place as we get closer to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the earliest possible date for this is 1 january 2009. so i expect that the debate on this issue will start later in 2008, and in all likelihood it will have to start at some point, because it is envisaged that with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty the european union will also have the presidency of the european council. i repeat, however, that the presidency does not believe that now is the time for such a debate, but it must be borne in mind that we have only five of the 27 ratifications needed at this moment.
the chairman of the council. - i understood the first three questions, the fourth one was lost in translation, so perhaps i could ask mrs mcguinness to repeat the question again, because i will be listening to it in your language.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for your kindness, mrs. mcguinness, in repeating the question. i totally understand him now. first, i have a question for mr corbett. the president of the european council is absolutely the president of the european council and nothing else. as a lawyer, i cannot agree that the president of the european council should be the president of something else. the european council is becoming an institution. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it was supposed to become a new institution, which it has not been. and this institution is to have a president, and this president will preside over this institution and not over the other institutions mentioned in the lisbon treaty. i agree with the honourable member, mr racke, that the revised text is in any case a useful tool for the decision-making of members of parliament, for informing citizens. but, as i said before, it does not change the fact that the only relevant, legally relevant text is the one prepared by the competent service of the general secretariat of the council as an official text, an officially redacted text. and with that, i turn to mr. seppänen's question. the slovenian parliament has ratified the lisbon treaty without the official wording, because it is not yet available. copies in some languages of the unofficial revised version were made available for those interested. but the government, i must say, has been engaged in explaining the novelties brought about by the lisbon treaty, and judging by the result achieved in the slovenian national assembly, it has clearly been quite successful in doing so. this is a matter of national concern, not so much the presidency's concern, but i felt obliged to explain it to you. again, about the referenda. first of all, let me ask mr seppänen, did you ask how the council or i could prevent referendums?
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for this additional clarification. no, there was no such decision and there would be no such decision. the council respects the right of each member state to decide independently and sovereignly on the ratification procedure in accordance with its internal rules, without interference by the council or the presidency. about the question, congresswoman mcguinness. i'm not sure what you're talking about. what i have just said is that the way in which the new treaty is ratified is a sovereign right of each member state to decide independently, in accordance with its national law, whether to hold a referendum or to ratify the new treaty in parliament. the new treaty will not change that fact. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this issue will remain the exclusive sovereign competence of each member state, including ireland, also for the time being, including for future treaties.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to draw the attention of the honourable member to the latest council initiative relating to her question. on 14 february this year, the council adopted a series of key messages on the further implementation of the european youth pact and addressed them to the spring european council, which starts tomorrow. the key communications are based on the commission's latest analysis of the national reform programmes and contain an assessment of progress in the implementation of the european youth pact in 2007. on the basis of this analysis, the council noted that, since the adoption of the european youth pact in 2005, unemployment has decreased in some member states but remains high at eu level, at over 17%. it therefore formulated the following recommendations for the further implementation of the pact, which will be received by the european council this week in the form of key messages. youth employment, participation in education and training and social integration of young people should remain central objectives of economic and social strategies. particular attention should continue to be paid to young people with fewer opportunities, in particular through more decisive guidance, multidisciplinary support and tailor-made measures. in future, the implementation of the lisbon strategy should aim at developing a youth dimension. this is based on a cross-sectoral approach and a strengthened role for young people. the first recommendation therefore calls on member states to focus in particular on youth employment targets. in this context, the commission places particular emphasis on issues such as the transition from education to employment, precarious working conditions, flexible security and the employability of young people. the slovenian presidency paid particular attention to the problems and challenges of youth employment. i should particularly mention that next month slovenia will host an international conference under the presidency entitled 'work for young people, prosperity for all'.
mr president, the text of the youth pact also provides for measures to reconcile work and family life. the council also decided on the european alliance for the family. young people should be able to start a family. what measures does the presidency intend to take to make this possible ?
the chairman of the council. - the first question is to the honourable member, mrs mcguinness. :the european union mission in kosovo is a mission under the european union's common foreign and security policy, i.e. the cfsp, the 'isdp mission'. but this is not the only mission in the western balkans. we have a mission with a similar status, namely the cfsp mission in bosnia and herzegovina, that is, the european union police mission. and similarly we have the proxim mission, or we had one, because it was already completed, in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would like to stress the importance of the mission, which was the subject of the decision of the kosovo mission. the eu is often divided over the status of kosovo. this division is obvious, but it ignores the unity of the european union on important issues such as the european mission, which has been agreed and which we hope will be operational within the timeframe. regarding the question from mrs. ţicău. we already have regional cooperation in place under the energy charter for south east europe. we are also considering other areas where concrete measures could strengthen the effective integration of the western balkan countries and strengthen their links, their connection with the european union. you mentioned transport. yes, that's one of the areas we're studying. there are also other areas of cooperation, such as research, science and education. i would like to stress in particular the importance of visa liberalisation for these countries, which remains our objective. we hope and hope to achieve it soon. the eu has already started negotiations with most of the western balkan countries on the gradual liberalisation of visa requirements under the slovenian presidency.
mr president, mr president-in-office, in your answer on kosovo, you did not mention the word 'un' once, nor did you mention the word 'international legality'! i ask you: the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. and since the council in its statement welcomes the international presence in kosovo, citing un resolution 1244, i ask you: the un resolution is a restaurant menu to be invoked à la carte? is it valid or not valid or do you just pick the parts that are convenient for you?
mr president, with inflation in the euro zone at its highest level ever, with oil at $110 a barrel, the european parliament will raise indirect taxes on fuel tomorrow. if this is not a headline for a joke, it is certainly something that will make friday's newspaper readers very happy. i think we're sending the wrong message at the wrong time. we show that we don't understand the rhythms of society. secondly, my delegation will not support the compromise either, because we are opposed to this method of the 'bulldose', whereby six member states which already have high taxation force through the commissioner, mr kovac, all the others to raise prices under the pretext of gasoline tourism. i cannot justify this to my constituents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which is presenting this report as an own-initiative report, has invested in this subject both human and material resources, because not only have our committee members worked on it, but a multi-page report on the situation of women in prisons in europe has also been presented. we have heard from leading scientists and civil society representatives on the subject at a hearing, and the european parliament's offices have so far given us interesting presentations on the subject, which means that the work of parliament in defending human rights and ensuring the special rights of women, when they are in the difficult situation of imprisonment, is being highlighted. it is a special category of women, who are a minority in the total number of prisoners in europe, since they represent on average only 5%, although there are considerable variations between 7% and 0%. the situation of women in prisons is considered in the report in a rather detailed way, as all the cases to be covered are presented. special needs not only in health, in the overall treatment of health including special problems, in the hygiene conditions and in the special attention to be given to the psychological composition of the woman, in dealing with the problems carried by the woman in prison from her past, in the special situation she lives in as a mother - we have figures that tell us that half of the prisoners in europe are mothers, and mothers of minor children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the release of prisoners are met, and that the conditions for the release of prisoners are met. all this gives us the right to ask the member states, with the contribution of the european union, to create the appropriate material conditions with institutions that will provide decent detention facilities, as defined by international and european rules and conventions, with the possibility of modernising legislation so that penalties are proportionate to the particular circumstances of mothers, with regular checks and special training of staff, so that they are sensitive to women's issues and also with the inclusion of women's detention facilities in the report presented each year by the european commission on human rights in the union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to thank all the speakers for this very enriching and interesting debate. i'm not the commissioner in charge of this case. however, i must tell you that i was extremely motivated and extremely interested in this debate. a whole series of personal ideas have been suggested to my conscience, and i do not conceal from you that this is the proof, indisputably, that you have succeeded in making me interested in a subject which is obviously extremely important. to overcome the obstacles to the reintegration of women prisoners into society and their participation in the labour market, we must of course stress once again the need to combine implementation measures with an appropriate safety net. this will require the involvement of all stakeholders, including the social partners. we will continue to discuss social inclusion issues with the member states at commission level, in accordance with the open method of coordination, and i am not going to hide from you that i have been struck by a whole series of proposals which have been made here - and which i will of course pass on to commissioner špidla - and which have been discussed in the committee on social affairs and employment. it is clear that the idea, for example, which already exists in a number of countries, of trying to extend to the maximum - where the imprisoned person does not present any danger to the social order - the possibility of alternative sentences or substitution sentences, is obviously an interesting lead. i am also thinking, but i am speaking freely, of the electronic bracelets which allow people to leave prison and live with their families. i think there are a number of ways to do this, because what i have heard here is also very true: imprisonment is first and foremost an act of social reconciliation, of course, and so we must also try to make this act of reintegration into society a place of positiveness. i was also very sensitive to the remarks of mrs záborská which were taken up in various forms by several speakers; this is the whole question of the family bond and the bond with the child, which, of course, requires extremely specific approaches. the question of hygiene in prisons, health care, sexual preferences, sexual assault, sexual violence - these are all subjects which i know, of course, from my position as commissioner for development, even though i am not in charge of this dossier. of course, i have regular visits to prisons in developing countries. i can tell you that i am very sensitive to these questions. i will certainly report back to commissioner špidla on the excellence of this debate and all the ideas i have heard here, and i know that he is particularly sensitive to these issues.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, thank you for coming so late, thank you to commissioners michel and špidla for their very positive contribution to the report we are presenting, thank you to all the colleagues and to mr machakis, the only colleague who took part in the debate. i think the common denominator is maintaining family ties. all stressed the importance of maintaining family relations, the importance of protecting children, especially young children, and of creating appropriate conditions adapted to the specific characteristics of women. but the first thing we must do is to defend human rights, to defend the rights of women, whether they are in prison or not. so what applies to women outside prison should also apply to women inside prison. as regards social exclusion, i am very grateful to commissioner špidla, who, through you, commissioner michel, has stressed the importance of support measures already in detention, measures of vocational training and market entry, cooperation and the private sector, in order to be able to achieve what you yourself, commissioner, said, namely that prison should be an opportunity and not a form of retaliation. as regards mr machakis' view that there are dangerous tendencies, they exist both inside and outside the prison and we must make it possible - and by medical means - to combat such tendencies in order to exclude the case of marginalization of individuals, which would be contrary to our idea of the dignity of the individual and the possibility of supporting him to give his best to society. i hope that the new lisbon treaty, as the commissioner has said, will enable us to take further action and, since the presentation of this report and the ratification of the treaty are not far off, that much of what the report proposes will become reality. i would like to return to a point that has not been mentioned, namely that the annual report of the commission on human rights should also mention the situation of women in prisons in the union.
mr president, i sincerely believe that access to information and services on sexual and reproductive health protects women against aids, among other things. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. it is also against my wish that for the same reason we should delete from the text the kyoto protocol on the rights of women in africa, the so-called maputo protocol. of course, the abortion issue is a matter of principle and each of us will be placed according to what we believe. i respect the beliefs of others, but i ask them to do the same with my beliefs. we must therefore respect both the rights of women and the rights of every woman who will or will not have an abortion, whether for economic, social, family or health reasons. i therefore personally will vote in favour of the report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, it is a question of changing the phrases 'detention of girls and boys' and the age from '17' to '18'.
in writing. the report aims to ensure that the eu participates on better terms in the sharing of the imperialist spoils of the war against iraq and the interventions in the wider middle east. in this context: it is looking for ways and means to consolidate the eu's presence in the country in the long term to "help european companies...to take up contracts for reconstruction", i.e. to increase the share of eu monopolies in the loot. it calls for immediate assistance to the docile "government" of iraq. it promotes formulas to play an active role in the imperialist occupation. to join military and police forces in the occupation troops, as long as they change "hat" and rename themselves "un forces". the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it not only legitimizes the occupying troops, calling them a 'multinational force', but also the private assassination companies operating in iraq, provided that rules are put in place for their criminal activities! the kke votes against the report. it stands in solidarity with the resistance of the iraqi people and the struggle of the peoples of the region for liberation from the yoke of imperialist occupation and their inalienable right to determine their own destinies.
in writing. the report, despite its correct findings on the dramatic situation of women in developing countries, hides those responsible. the capitalist mode of production and the brutal imperialist interventions of the eu, the usa and other imperialist states and organizations that ravage these countries, seize their wealth-producing resources and lead to hunger and poverty for millions of people. the proposed solutions are within the limits of capitalist development and eu development aid. the commission's proposal to encourage women entrepreneurship, which will increase employment, is also characteristic of this approach. in this context, the proposals for a "more just and democratic society", access for girls and women to education, health services, eradication of poverty, disease, etc., remain empty words, wishes that disorient, since the satisfaction of popular needs is incompatible with the supreme principle of capitalist development, the pursuit of profit. for every euro the eu gives, it robs thousands of these countries. the improvement of the position of women, of the living conditions of the peoples of these countries, does not pass through the institutionalized robbery of "eu development aid", but through resistance to imperialist interventions, the demand for equal international relations and the struggle for another way of development centred on the needs of the people.
mr president, i am in favour of the resolution because the situation in afghanistan is unacceptable and disappointing. taliban rule has thrown this country back many years. but let's be honest here. who supported the taliban? was it not the americans who, with weapons and financial means, empowered the taliban to fight the soviets? and is it also true or not that today opium production in this country has increased fivefold? why would you do that? everyone draw their own conclusions!
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the debate we are having today because, despite all the efforts and initiatives mentioned by the european institutions, we seem to have abandoned this people to their fate, in the midst of political crises. we have a timid attitude, as if we did not understand that the situation in lebanon is linked to the challenges in the middle east and that these challenges are very important for international security and peace and for the european union's strategic plans in the mediterranean and the middle east. as the european union - and i think this must be made clear in the european parliament - we must be consistent with the commitments that arise from our partnership with lebanon. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the democratically elected government, which was formed after the last elections in accordance with the constitutional requirements and which is now the target of opposition and threats. we must show our support by actions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it requires the functioning of the institutions, the functioning of parliament as a forum for democratic dialogue and public scrutiny, as a forum for the expression of the diversity that is a component of lebanon's identity. there is a parliament that remains closed, not just for the election of the president of the republic, but for every function. the prospect of a way out of the crisis requires the immediate election of a president of the republic and the formation of a new government in accordance with constitutional arrangements and not in accordance with the competitive games of regional powers, as is the case today with the election of a president. we must also show our solidarity with the lebanese people themselves in their search for the truth about the political murders. hundreds of thousands of people are on the streets protesting with a "we want the truth" sign. we must act as the european union more effectively and strategically, at the regional level, to highlight the responsibilities and the real interests and the potential for solution and peace of the states of the region and the arab states, and also at the national level, for consultation and national dialogue. and in closing, i want to close with an optimistic note: i believe that the political forces have shown responsibility, because the data could have led to civil war and a coup, which did not happen. so let's take advantage of these positives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we - the kke meps - will not vote for the enlargement of the european union to include fyrom and croatia, because we are opposed to the strengthening of the european union by capital and war. after the breakup of yugoslavia by nato and the european union, imperialist plans to change the borders in the balkans and the creation of protectorates that strengthen imperialists and divide peoples continue. the creation and expansion of the largest us base in europe, in territory and undefined borders, between fyrom and the serbian province of kosovo where european union forces are expected to arrive, is a characteristic feature of the intensification of competition in the region. the recent decision of the nato summit to admit albania and croatia and the non-invitation of fyrom demonstrate the intense blackmail being used in the balkan countries - including greece - to subjugate them to imperialist interests. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for peace, stable borders and protection of the sovereignty of countries, a common struggle of the peoples against the imperialist organizations that divide and exploit the peoples is required.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the nato summit in bucharest sent out messages and produced fumes that reached this parliament. it is comforting that europe has finally taken a stand on an issue which concerns it, because - as a rule - we have not seen it very willing to take a stand when others are deciding. i think, therefore, that the lesson learned is useful for everyone, but especially useful for fyrom, especially since this young democracy has not yet been taught european diplomatic practice, having based its hopes of nato membership only on american promises and on childish and foolish altruism. in this respect - and speaking of negotiations between european countries - we must never choose the path of provocation and fanaticism, nor adopt imaginary choices of ancestors and neighbouring cultures and history, but instead we must approach it with consensus, with understanding and, above all, with honesty, so as to contribute to solving - and not exacerbating - the problems. this practice will help furom. we want to help fyrom in its efforts to join both nato and the european union. otherwise, she'll find it in front of her, because it's undermining her efforts. and if it undermines her efforts now, it may undermine her future.
mr president, both the meijer report and the unanimous resolutions of the interparliamentary committee european union - fyrom highlight the three main elements that are positively advancing the european path of this country. the first component is, of course, the fulfilment of the accession criteria, the assimilation of the acquis communautaire, and in this context fyrom has made progress, but it must continue on the path of reform as emphasized in the meijer report and in the various reports of the european commission. the second component is internal policy and social cohesion. the continuing observance of the ohrid agreement, particularly with regard to the albanian and other minorities in this multiethnic country. the third component is the settlement of the fyrom's disputes with its neighbours, in accordance with the salzburg declaration. and here i must emphasize that greece has been - and continues to be - a pioneer in the efforts to integrate all the balkan countries into euro-atlantic structures, since it firmly believes that the development of the countries of the region is to the benefit of all. for greece, however, the name issue is not simply a problem of historical, psychological or emotional dimensions. it is a real political issue of substance, which concerns all greek citizens, but also the european values of good neighbourliness and regional cooperation. i would remind you that greece agreed to grant fyrom candidate status for membership on the condition, of course, referred to in com (2007) 663, that a mutually acceptable solution be found through negotiations on the name issue. and finally, i can say that even after bucharest, where the invitation to fyrom to join nato was postponed until the name issue was resolved, greece is pushing for the continuation of the negotiations and has even taken a brave step of compromise, accepting a compound name, and has no choice but to go on the other side and meet greece halfway. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to believe that on the few points which remain to be clarified, there will be compromise solutions so that we can proceed to the votes in strasbourg.
madam president, greece has consistently supported the european perspective of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and has contributed to its economic development. we have worked systematically to find a mutually acceptable solution to the name problem within the framework of the un. greece has made significant steps towards supporting a compound name with erga omnes geographical indication. unfortunately, the same readiness was not observed on the other side. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market, and the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market. the decision by nato not to invite does not mean refusal to participate, but points to the need for a solution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the name of the new member state is not used in the community. we call on the members of the european parliament not to accept formalities which interfere with the ongoing negotiating process which is entering its most critical phase.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, as regards mr meijer's report on fyrom, after thanking the rapporteur for his willingness to talk, i would like to call on the government and the political forces of fyrom to go as far as they can, with a view to the future, in order to find a mutually acceptable solution to the name issue. such a development would mean fulfilling the criterion of good neighbourly relations and would pave the way for the fyrom's further course towards the european union. finally, i would like to support mr swoboda's proposal to postpone the vote on the meijer report for about a week, so that we can have time to consider the compromise amendments that have been tabled.
it is very important that there is so much interest in discussing this subject, but unfortunately only five minutes are available, which have already been spent.
because of the great interest in this subject, we doubled the talk time, which, while usually five minutes, was this time ten minutes. but your observation is indeed very interesting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, on behalf of the council, i would like to express my agreement with what commissioner rehn said, that this year is crucial for croatia on its path towards membership of the european union. i would like to thank you again for the report by mr hannes swoboda, which gives a fairly clear picture of the current situation, the progress made and the challenges ahead. our hope is that croatia will seize the opportunity and move forward quickly. the fact is that the speed of its progress will depend first and foremost on itself, on the speed and quality of the reforms that need to be carried out. i should like to stress, mr schmidt, that the slovenian presidency is taking the lead in this dossier with all responsibility. first, it supports croatia's progress, moving as quickly as possible towards membership of the european union because it is important for croatia, because it is important for the european union and because it is also important for the whole region. however, the responsible attitude towards the management of this dossier is one that is based on the negotiating framework that has been reached, agreed with croatia, based on the revised accession partnership recently adopted by the council, and on other european union acts. and on this basis we hope and wish that croatia will progress as quickly as possible and the slovenian presidency will strive for this. as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, mr wiersma, mrs berès and others have mentioned the risk of political destabilisation in the country. the presidency hopes, sincerely hopes, that this will not happen. a political crisis, possible early parliamentary elections, would halt the process of necessary reforms for a few months. we count on the preservation and strengthening of the unity of the citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, regardless of their political and ethnic affiliation, unity with regard to their common future, their common future in the european union and euro-atlantic structures. it is also important that the internal political situation has been consolidated by the return of the albanian dpa party to the government coalition. now is the time, and that time is limited, we only have until the next autumn report from the european commission, the regular progress report. it is important that the work, which gained new momentum at the end of last year, continues during this period, in particular with the revival of political dialogue and concrete results in the field of reforms. a national council for european integration was established and an ambitious plan for the implementation of the tasks of the association partnership was adopted. this is the path to follow. the slovenian presidency will continue to support the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in this way. let me conclude with this thought: the question of stability in the western balkans and the accelerated integration of the region into the european framework must remain high on the union's agenda. the slovenian presidency has put this issue as one of its priorities. we hope that this will continue to be the case. the fact is that an investment in the european future of the western balkans is also an investment in the future of the european union itself. i would like to thank you for the very broad support of the members and members of the european parliament for the european perspective of the western balkans, and i would also like to thank you for your contribution to this debate today. thank you so much.
member of the commission. − madam president, first, let me thank members for a very substantive debate, which, in my view, underlines the importance of the european perspective for the western balkans. a number of important issues were raised and i can only comment on some of them in this short response. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank the slovenian presidency for making the western balkans a key priority of its term of office. i found the foreign ministers’ informal meeting in brdo, slovenia, some weeks ago, to be very important, and it certainly gave a new stimulus and dynamism to our policy in the western balkans, like this debate. in my view, we are now on the right track. the region has made steady progress over the past couple of years and once the major risks of instability, like the aftermath of the kosovo status process or the fragility of democracy in serbia, can be handled well, then i am sure that the region will have a very bright future and that this future is, indeed, in the european union. the presidency has already responded to the points made as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i can only second those views and say that the country is well placed to take an historic step forward this year if it acts with determination and sustained efforts to meet the benchmarks. it is encouraging that the macedonian government has established an action plan to meet benchmarks and a new national plan for the adoption of the acquis. now i want to encourage the country to implement its own plans and thus pave the way for a positive recommendation from the commission in the coming autumn. several of you referred to visa liberalisation. i can inform you that the commission is currently working on a road map for visa liberalisation for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we will present a draft to the country shortly and, as the country is quite advanced in many respects, for instance on biometric passports, i hope that it will be able to meet the conditions of the road map rather swiftly and thus achieve the goal of visa-free travel for citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia§. i would also like to inform you that we shall shortly – before the end of april – present a road map of this kind for visa-free travel for serbia where, likewise, ordinary citizens value this extremely highly. we want to facilitate, on our part, this important objective. on croatia, i can conclude that a clear majority of the european parliament has a realistic view of what needs to be done by croatia for the country to be able to succeed in concluding accession negotiations in the course of 2009. this is good, because the real friends of croatia should not sweep the problems under the carpet but be honest about what needs to be done and encourage croatia to implement the necessary reforms on the ground and without delay. sustained efforts are needed. mr posselt asked the commission to step up its efforts and i can assure him that the commission will have no problems whatsoever in processing negotiating positions in the various chapters once the benchmarks are met by croatia itself. ms ek referred to the environmental aspects of overfishing in the adriatic and i would like to respond to her and inform you all that prime minister sanader told president barroso and myself of his concern for a special area in the middle of the adriatic, the ‘jabuka pomo pit’, which is an important spawning ground. the commission is strongly in favour of the sustainable management of fish stocks and commissioner borg has been very active in this matter. the commission is ready to work on a proposal to establish a fisheries protection area in the adriatic, as foreseen under the new mediterranean regulation. this will need further discussions with slovenia, italy and croatia and, of course, the commission. finally, mr lebech mentioned the nordic model as a source of inspiration for the western balkans in terms of regional cooperation. i believe that the nordic council has already played such a role: it has been used as the model for the regional cooperation council for south-eastern europe, based in sarajevo, which is now the forum for regional political cooperation in the western balkans. i find it encouraging that regional cooperation has substantially improved over the last couple of years and both croatia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have actively contributed to this success. we have clearly moved from a situation where, only a few years ago, regional cooperation was considered with significant suspicion that it was an attempt to recreate yugoslavia. there is now a new understanding of its importance, both because of the concrete benefits on the ground – economic benefits, communications, transport, people-to-people contacts – and because regional cooperation moves the countries closer to the european union. after all, cooperation across borders is what the european union is all about. i want to thank you once again for a very responsible and substantive debate and congratulate the rapporteurs on their important contributions to this debate.
ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure of welcoming to the chamber the new commissioner, mrs andrula vassiliou. i would like to congratulate you on your appointment, commissioner, and i believe we will have good cooperation in the european parliament. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on important political issues.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as this is my first official appearance before this house, let me first of all express my gratitude to the members of the european parliament for the confidence they have shown in me by voting for me. i repeat what i said at my hearing, namely that i want to have a good and honest cooperation with the members of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in addition to the priority given to cancer by you and the slovenian presidency, this issue has been a particular concern of mine for many years, so i am pleased that it is the first topic for me to address in front of the plenary. every year 3.2 million europeans are diagnosed with cancer, but this burden is not spread equally across the union. for example, the most recent data show that cervical cancer is over four times higher in bulgaria than in finland, and the risk of dying from cervical cancer is almost five times higher in lithuania than in italy. these variations show that there is scope to do better across the union. clearly, the primary responsibility for comprehensive cancer services lies with the member states, but european action can make a difference. the commission is currently preparing a report on the implementation of the council recommendation on cancer screening of 2003. i expect that this will show that progress has been made, but that more still needs to be done. we will work with the member states to pursue this. but even though screening is important, i think that community action against cancer must cover a wider range of topics. for example: health information and data on the cancer burden that will highlight inequalities and best practices across europe; preventive measures and health promotion on topics such as tobacco, nutrition and alcohol; best practices on treatment and integrated cancer care, such as palliative care; bringing together expertise through european reference networks; providing investment in infrastructure through the structural funds; and support for cancer research at community level. i plan to bring forward proposals for an action plan on cancer next year. this will aim to provide focus and coherence for all these actions. we will also consider whether the scientific evidence justifies updating the existing recommendation on cancer screening. some actions are already under way. we plan to include provisions for european reference networks as part of the forthcoming proposals on the application of patient rights in cross-border health care. the proposals later this year on rare diseases will also help to improve, inter alia, the situation regarding rare types of cancer. moreover, when a person has cancer, it affects them most, but it also affects their family, their employer and society as a whole. my proposals will be accompanied by an impact assessment that will make clear not just the human cost of cancer but also the wider social and economic costs. i look forward to hearing your suggestions on issues we need to address as we develop those proposals. you may be sure that your proposals will be taken into account as we develop this action plan, and i count on your support for all our future actions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the commissioner on her appointment and i am pleased with the views she has already expressed on cancer. i think, commissioner, that the time has come to adopt an effective strategy against cancer, adapted to the progress of science and technology, so that the disease ceases to be the number one cause of death in europe. today, one third of all cancers are preventable. we must therefore review existing programmes and actions in the field of prevention, but also create new ones to cover all areas of prevention. as regards scientific knowledge, the council recommendation on early diagnosis should be revised. add better diagnostic techniques and more types of cancer. in addition to breast, cervical, and colon cancers, there are skin cancers and possibly lung and prostate cancers. by strengthening prevention and early diagnosis, almost 70% of cases can be covered. for those cases where prevention or early diagnosis has not been possible, it is necessary to improve - as you said - the treatment approaches and the treatment practice with more effective and innovative methods. we must ensure that the ever more effective therapeutic tools offered by innovation and research can be exploited. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. it is also clear that bureaucratic formalities will not impede research and, moreover, that licensing procedures will be revised; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of medicinal products is not compromised by the introduction of new substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the means at the disposal of the union can lead in the near future to the achievement of cancer control which will largely relieve the european citizen of this scourge. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we want to believe that both the european commission and the council will support parliament's resolution and take appropriate action to achieve the objectives we are voting for.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, which i believe reflects parliament's concerns about the extent to which the union has so far fulfilled its commitments under the sixth community environment action programme. the commission's mid-term evaluation reveals that coordinated efforts are needed to close the gaps in legislation through new legislative proposals and to secure the necessary resources to ensure the proper implementation of community legislation. at the same time, it is recognised that a shift towards sustainable production and consumption models is necessary, as well as further decoupling economic growth from the use of natural resources. at the same time, we must stress the international dimension of european environmental policy, stressing that the union should be encouraged to continue to promote ambitious environmental policies and requirements by promoting technology transfer and the exchange of good practices with developing countries.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner figel, at a time when traditional economic sectors and industries are experiencing a significant decline and when the pressures of globalisation are creating significant competitive disadvantages for european businesses, the cultural industries sector is one of the few sectors that offer significant opportunities for multilateral economic, regional, social and cultural development. at this stage, in addition to article 157 of the treaty and the unesco convention on the protection of culture, europe should aim to achieve the right balance which will help businesses, institutions and products and services in this sector to be fully competitive without compromising their strong intercultural character and the safeguarding of diversity. in this context, and especially in the next year, which is the european year of innovation and creativity, as you said, commissioner, i believe that it is the right time for the european union to actively turn to the cultural industries, to get rid of the notion that they are a luxury, and to focus on specific policies that will boost investment in this sector. mr president, we fully support mr bono's report, which i think will be a subject of serious reflection for commissioner figel to discuss and continue his creative work.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sacconi, who has really made an excellent report with his experience in environmental and climate change matters. the commissioner, with the start of the debate on climate change, is beginning to unfold, with complete transparency and speed, all the problems, mainly environmental, economic and energy problems, which have been the basis of the model of growth and expansion, not only of the european but also of the international economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but this system has reached its limits, creating crises, not only environmental ones - such as natural disasters - but also economic and financial crises: the disruption of the energy market, the shift in the centre of gravity, but also the geographical origin of energy sources, the dramatic disruption of the food market, if agriculture is converted into an energy supplier, are the main factors that will cause significant changes in the production model of the european union. but they will also stimulate other competing powers, such as china and the united states, to rearrange both productive capital and the factors of production. the policy of adaptation to climate change, we would like to believe, will prepare the way for the new european development model of the european union, which will guarantee the environment, employment, and will give new dimensions to social policies, cross-border cooperation and tax policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. i would like to say that, as the rapporteur, mr sacconi, has said, we fully support his report and we raise three main points: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner and that the member states are able to take account of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are also looking forward to the results of the white paper you have mentioned, commissioner, and, knowing your sensitivity to these matters and to interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the commission, we believe that the european parliament will play an important role in this effort.
mr president, commissioner, i listened with interest to your opening speech, you must know that you have many allies here in the european parliament, but i am afraid that you have far fewer allies - in these objectives of yours - within the commission itself. the european union must first of all be consistent with its own declarations if it is to be in the forefront of the fight against climate change. so when you are right to talk about mainstreaming and that we must reduce greenhouse gases, the commission cannot finance the continuation of european union support for coal and oil. the commission and council's foreign policy must put pressure on mr bush, not pander to him, to commit to these agreements. it must help the poorest countries with a technology and resource transfer package so that they can join this global alliance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, we are with you, but you must fight harder to win the commission itself, commissioner. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to refer to a subject which is linked to the phenomenon of climate change but which has not been raised in today's debate on the occasion of the recent communication from the european commission on strengthening the union's capacity to respond to disasters, to which is attached a specific annex entitled 'forest fires', which refers to the widespread devastating fires that struck southern europe and in particular greece last summer. these widespread fires are linked to the phenomenon of climate change and i believe that there is an urgent need for preventive measures throughout europe and particularly in the southern european region, which, as the ipcc studies show, is the most affected by this phenomenon and already frequently experiences extreme weather events. in this context, commissioner, in addition to the medium-term measures, there is an urgent need for the european union to take concrete action to ensure that, in view of the forthcoming summer season, there will be no repetition of the phenomena of last year.
in writing. the discussion on the exchange of knowledge and experience between the member states and the commission on the management systems of each state will not provide particular elements for the adoption of common management measures, because they are within the competence of the member states, and rightly so, since they deal with the historical, social, economic, geographical and hydrological factors of each country. it is rightly emphasised that marine biological resources are a common public good and that the rights relating to them should not be construed as property rights. but finding effective management systems based on fishing rights within the framework of the common fisheries policy and at eu level is a utopia and an illusion, because the system itself with its uneven development does not allow such an objective to be achieved. the fisheries sector is not independent of the general economic situation of each member state, nor are fishermen who are active in the fisheries sector unaffected by local and international political and social developments. research and debate will simply show that it is impossible to have an improvement in the economic situation of fishermen and, more generally, the development of local fisheries communities, and at the same time a common fisheries policy aimed at concentrating fisheries resources in business groups and, more generally, in big business.
in writing. the mid-term evaluation of the sixth environment action programme does not offer anything new, i.e. a change in the guidelines and objectives it had set. it is simply expressing a concern that it is not moving at the speed of the timetable. however, while acknowledging the major environmental problems, the causes of the acute situation, namely the predatory exploitation by multinationals for their profit, are not highlighted. they use the environment as a reservoir for theft of raw materials, uncontrolled action, a field of insurance and new profits. the 6th environment programme also empowers nature exploiters themselves as responsible for protecting the environment, stating explicitly that 'effective action, business opportunities, the market will provide a solution'. the environment is essentially a new field of accumulation and new profitability for capital. it is even being supported by community resources, i.e. the money of the people, the liberalisation of strategic sectors and the commercialisation of environmental protection, promoting the 'green' economy as one of the greatest investment opportunities for monopoly capital. at the same time, it exploits the world's awareness, hiding that dangerous climate change, global warming, is the result of industrial development driven by capitalist profit, the commercialization of land, air, energy, water, etc.
in writing. the commercialisation of culture is disguised by a pretense of respect for diversity, the intellectual rights of creators, which are made "property" to be taken away and bought like merchandise, the need to respect the terms of unesco, which is constantly, with "appropriate compromises", being gradually adapted to the needs and conditions of the wto. in essence, it is a monopoly on the concentration and ownership of all the conditions of cultural existence and cultural production in each country, under the umbrella of the measures and rules of the anti-people lisbon strategy, to enrich capital, while at the same time contrasting therapeutic wishes, abstinences, exhortations and ethics for respect for diversity. unfortunately, all human values are being used as fuel for the profit motive of capital, as is the natural environment, where the consequences of the same policy are already being painfully felt. it is the iron laws of the market economy that crush, impoverish, homogenize all cultural, aesthetic, artistic and moral values, in the face of the need to integrate them into capitalist profit, in domestic and international imperialist competition. the internal contradiction of eu policy, between the quality of culture and the quantity of profit, in this system finds its outlet only in the direction of the need for profit, which is why we will vote against the report.
mr president, i am sorry for the delay, but i have just arrived in parliament. i think it would be utopian to talk about crossborder cooperation when it comes to greece, which is the fourth country in the world to receive illegal immigrants after spain, france and sweden. but how can anyone discuss border cooperation when, on the other hand, mr president, we are dealing with a turkey which is doing this job, that is, with people whose profession is to transport illegal immigrants from asia to europe? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
mr president, we must pay tribute to the memory of the hunger striker of the saint-nazaire shipyards, niko aslamazidis. we must re-examine the question of the protection of workers from modern slavery. we must also take account of the fact that the european parliament has already been consulted on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the hiring agencies treat their employees as modern slaves: they use them to the limit, pay them a pittance, move them as they please and fire them whenever they please. how do we protect them? the bolkestein directive, based on creative ambiguity, leaves the door open to social dumping. the promotion of the policy of flexicurity is the new mechanism of deregulation of industrial relations which leads to a reduction in stable employment in favour of precarious jobs. this is how we get to the disposable workers, who struggle every day for survival and dignity. the creation of another europe, which will give priority to full employment, to improved working conditions and to a fairer redistribution of the wealth produced, is not only possible but also indispensable. the workers' sacrifices are essentially a struggle against the imposition of the new working middle ages, in which all progressive forces must, in practice, unite.
mr president, the increase in prices and the growing food shortages are alarming. i would like to take this opportunity to express my legitimate concern about the latest developments in the agricultural negotiations of the world trade organization. the european commission, which is conducting the negotiations, is called upon to act strictly within the council's negotiating mandate, within the framework of the revised common agricultural policy. it must ensure the sustainability, competitiveness and multi-functionality of european agriculture. the need for quality european nutritional adequacy is pressing today. it is this need which must guide the union's negotiating position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that written declaration no 33 on the role of young people in european union policies is open for signature from today. it is well known that youth unemployment is a problem for which we must focus our attention both now and in the future of the european union. we therefore call on the member states to take account of young people in all relevant policy areas, to engage with them in a structured dialogue and to plan policies, both in education and lifelong learning, and in employment, social inclusion, health, youth empowerment, mobility, fundamental rights and non-discrimination, so that we can hope for a better future for this category, which is also unattainable due to the demographic problem.
mr president, according to the european commission's figures, the community fleet is being reduced by 2% a year by the measures we have taken to protect fish stocks. so from 2003 to 2006 we have a decline of about 10%. however, the reduction in the fleet is not accompanied by a corresponding reduction in fishing capacity due to improvements in fishing technology. on the other hand, however, while the european union is reducing its fishing fleet, african and pacific countries such as australia, new zealand and china are building more and more vessels and increasing their fishing fleets. the community fleet is therefore shrinking, while the fleet of third countries is growing. so we're not doing anything! the european union is sensitive, even though 40% of the fish it consumes is imported, and it is trying. it is therefore necessary to include this issue in international talks so that others can reduce their fishing fleets.
mr president, this is the third time i have taken part in the one-minute speeches. i ask the bureau to speak and you refuse to give me the floor. what is the reason you won't give me the floor so i can say what i have to say?
mr president, for days now economic migrants - agricultural workers - working in miserable working and living conditions in the strawberry fields in the region of nea manolada in greece have been on strike, demanding an increase in their wages from the humiliating 23 euros to 30 euros. in an attempt to terrorize the foreign workers, in anticipation of the big rally they had planned for yesterday in the square of the tower of ely, large strawberry growers with their troops attacked the workers' camps with shots in the air and brutally beat many workers. we denounce this barbaric attack carried out - literally - with the tolerance of the police and the judicial authorities. we call for immediate measures to protect economic migrants.
mr president, we are kicking off the 2009 budget today, which has some peculiarities. it is the last budget for the current parliamentary term, it is the last budget of the barroso commission and, in all probability, it will also be the first budget to be drawn up between the two legislative frameworks, the current one and the new one - brought about by the treaty of lisbon - which, as you know, entails many and important responsibilities for the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the budget, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. the first point is that it must be a budget with added community value and not a budget that will send the message of the end of an era. and i am pleased to hear from the commissioner that the strengthening of frontex, for example, is a quality element which shows that even in the last year of the five-year cycle of the commission and parliament we can face new challenges. the second point is that it must be a development budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must emphasize, in this pervasive atmosphere of economic crisis that surrounds us, problems that call for developmental answers. the third point is that for any new political priority we must have new financial possibilities. to put it simply, new targets mean new money. finally, since 2009 will be an election year, i would appeal to the commission to present the draft in a simple and understandable way. it is time that the citizens of europe could understand and accept the budget that concerns them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate and with the report by mrs jutta haug, i think we are taking an important and necessary first step in the politicization of the budgetary procedure. the year 2009 is, after all, a very politically charged year for europe and our parliament: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, but that we should be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body, that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would also like to stress four important points in this process and in this report: the first is the importance of reacting in time to prepare for the new situation. the next budget, which, as we all said, will be the first budget under the new procedure, must be prepared so that it can function properly. the second point - and i want to emphasize this because this is something the socialist group has been calling for for several years - is the opening up of the procedure to the other committees. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. we are discussing political priorities not only in the committee on budgets but also in other committees. the third point is precisely this: that we should be guided - and we have been guided all these years - in a direction which reflects the political priorities of this parliament in relation to what the budget says. and here, i think, the first and foremost issue is the huge issue of poverty, as well as those of agriculture, development and technology. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the german government's initiative and the report we are discussing are not of the innocent, technical nature that they are presented to be. they lay down the technical and administrative conditions for the rapid and effective implementation of the preventive package established by the proms convention, which was incorporated into european union law a few months ago. dna, fingerprints, personal data and information of all kinds are collected, processed and exchanged in an automated manner and in as much detail as possible, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, between the law enforcement agencies of the member states and the european union. every citizen, every worker in the european union, can even be placed under preventive surveillance and "spying", provided that the prosecuting authorities consider that there are suspicions that he may commit criminal acts in the future or endanger public order and security. so everyone is guilty until proven innocent! the report we are discussing goes one step further: it legitimises this dossier by opening the door to the registration and exchange of data concerning political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union membership. what do you need all this for? to deal with organized crime? you are lying! you want to file the whole world! ban and intimidate anyone who questions your policies! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and to stress that the contribution and voluntary service to society is invaluable. at national and local level, it is an expression of participatory democracy and facilitates active citizen participation in society. at european level, volunteering can help to create stronger bonds between citizens of the european union. volunteering also plays an important role in achieving the european union's objectives of economic and social cohesion, through the additional human resources it brings to social and economic life, and through its contribution to the creation of social capital. the added value of volunteering should not be underestimated. particularly today, when the european union is facing significant social, economic and environmental challenges, volunteering should not only be encouraged but also supported by european policies and, in particular, cohesion policy. member states and regional authorities should endeavour to ensure that voluntary groups and actions can, in a transparent and flexible manner, access adequate and sustainable funding from the structural funds.
the report by mrs marian harkin on volunteering is a way of expressing the european parliament's social dimension to the european people. it encourages the spirit of giving and deals with the issue in a comprehensive and objective way, both in theory and in practice. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in its work, we have tried to contribute, by stressing, among other things, the importance of corporate volunteering, the synchronisation and reconciliation of volunteering initiatives with family and professional life, and the creation of voluntary emergency services in each region to respond in a timely manner to natural disasters and accidents. in general, volunteering contributes, among other things, to increasing gdp, as mentioned, to acquiring skills and improving the employability of the volunteer, to offering real opportunities to the socially and educationally excluded and unemployed, and to enhancing the participation of migrants, even in the local community. the actions and activities of the volunteers speak for themselves. and for my country, greece, for example, in 2004, the olympic volunteers were our most important medal. volunteering, both individual and group, is a vital element, both socially and economically, environmentally and culturally. it brings together all the differences and peculiarities, while promoting and highlighting them in a spirit of solidarity and common goals. in this context - and once again congratulating the rapporteur - i would ask you to support mrs harkin's report and to sign with us the joint written declaration we have made with other colleagues to make 2011 the european year of volunteering.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it is now 14 years since this parliament first adopted the european ombudsman statute. much has happened since then. it is therefore normal and appropriate that the ombudsman has taken the initiative to modify his statute, and the commission welcomes that. the important thing is this. the citizens must have confidence in the ombudsman’s capacity to conduct thorough and impartial inquiries in alleged cases of maladministration. so the ombudsman needs clear, concise and efficient rules for his important work. right from the beginning, the commission has followed this initiative very closely, and we have had fruitful discussions with the ombudsman and parliament’s rapporteur, ms jäätteenmäki. our respective services have also had a lot of contact and cooperation. the commission welcomes the general line of this report, and i want to thank the chairman, mr leinen, and all committee members – in particular ms jäätteenmäki – for their work. from the commission’s side, we will deliver our formal opinion very shortly after parliament requires us to do so. today i would like to briefly summarise our main reflections. they have to do with four specific issues. first, the hearing of witnesses; secondly, access to files; thirdly, olaf, and fourth, cooperation in the field of human rights. i will say very shortly a few words about each of these points. first, about the hearing of witnesses. the commission agrees with parliament’s amendment on the hearing of witnesses, and the purpose of this provision was to recall that officials give testimony not on a personal basis, but in their official capacity. we are conscious that the current wording could give the impression that officials might act under instructions and not give authentic and complete evidence. this has never happened, but i agree that it is important to modify the wording to avoid misunderstandings. secondly, on access to files, the commission is in favour of allowing the ombudsman to consult documents that he needs in the course of his enquiries. the ombudsman has proposed to lift the secrecy exception for access to a file. the commission has never used this exception, but it is important that we are very clear. the treatment of classified information has to be carefully considered. the same goes for privacy of individuals, protection of proceedings and business secrecy. that is why the commission welcomes parliament’s amendment that, where these kinds of documents are concerned, the ombudsman should use rules which are strictly equivalent to those in force in the institution concerned. with regard to sensitive information, such as data protection and business secrets, the commission fully shares parliament’s views. this also goes for documents relating to proceedings in litigation. this means that the ombudsman should apply the relevant community law when dealing with requests from third parties for access to documents obtained by the ombudsman in the course of his inquiries. as you know, the relevant community law – regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 – is currently being updated and the commission will take a decision in just a few weeks time. for these reasons, the commission agrees with the aim of the amendments on access to documents, but we think maybe a more precise wording would improve the text even more, and we will come back to that when we present our formal opinion. the third point, on olaf: when it comes to the transmission of information on possible criminal activities, the commission entirely agrees with parliament that the ombudsman should be able to notify the european anti-fraud office of any information on matters within its remit and it is not entirely clear that the proposed notion of ‘competent institutional body’ would cover olaf. a slight rewording could improve the text even more. finally, on cooperation in the field of human rights, the current statute has proved to be a good basis for the european ombudsman to cooperate with national ombudsmen and similar bodies in the member states. the commission fully encourages this practice. it brings the european institutions closer to its citizens. with a tabled amendment, parliament would like to widen the scope of cooperation to other institutions for the promotion and protection of human and fundamental rights. according to articles 302 and 303 of the treaty, it is the commission, as representative of the community, which establishes all appropriate forms of cooperation with international organisations in general and with the council of europe in particular. this is why the commission considers that this proposal goes beyond the mandate given to the ombudsman by the treaty. this being said, the commission would be open to an alternative wording, and i hope we will be able to strike the right balance between the ombudsman’s important working contacts and the treaties that does not impinge on the commission’s institutional prerogatives. so these are the commission’s reflections on the issues raised by parliament’s amendments, and after the vote tomorrow we will prepare our opinion and start discussions with the council. this should be done quickly, since we want to facilitate an agreement on the file under the slovenian presidency.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up on the basis of the following four points: - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is undoubtedly going through a very difficult period, a period of crisis of credibility. the european union is democratically credible? the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the common foundation on which we have built the european edifice and on which our fellow citizens rest is always there. it's the value system that protects their fundamental rights. the need to communicate with european citizens is more urgent than ever and only makes sense if the union receives their concerns and is able to convince them that the institutions are trying to meet their expectations. the citizens don't trust us as long as they don't feel that we are advancing, but also expanding their rights. and that effort must be sustained, ladies and gentlemen. we must be aware of historical developments and the new demands they create. the european ombudsman's main objective is to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions and bodies of the european union, by enhancing the very sense of trust that citizens need. the proposed changes to the rules of procedure for the revision of the ombudsman's statute effectively equip him to do so. on behalf of the committee on petitions, we support them unreservedly. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jäätteenmäki, on her tireless efforts to produce a report that is acceptable to all.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr european ombudsman, mr nikiforos diamanturo, colleagues - good night, i might say - we were perhaps a little late in discussing the improvement of the ombudsman's status, but i think we are finally doing it at the right time, because it is the moment when the european parliament is speaking in general about the rights of the citizen, it is standing in front of a new treaty on the functioning of the european union and it is standing in front of a charter of fundamental rights in which there is a special article that refers to the right of citizens to lodge complaints with the ombudsman. i think it is therefore appropriate to discuss the issue of citizens' trust in the institutions of the european union, and i would remind you that the european ombudsman is an institution at the service of the european citizen in the fight against maladministration. i would like to say, however, that it is time for the european parliament itself to show confidence in its institutions, as well as in the european ombudsman. i think that our discussion on the changes initiated by the present ombudsman has had two misunderstandings during it, which i believe we have been able to resolve in committee. the first concerned the question of responsibilities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the attempt, through this report, is to 'clothe' the existing institutional powers of the european ombudsman, to give him the appropriate tools and means to be able to exercise them in all those areas which the rapporteur has mentioned. the second misunderstanding concerned the confidentiality of documents. the report does not say which documents are available to the public. it refers to documents that the ombudsman himself can see and sets out two clear rules: that those documents which are sensitive, according to the rules of procedure, cannot be seen and that for documents which are under the confidentiality regime, this regime continues to apply. i would therefore say in conclusion that at the present juncture it is very crucial that we promote this report.
the european parliament is a political body and i think we should judge the issues we discuss in a political way. the measure that must accompany our actions tells us, in my view, two things. i'll take two examples from what we discussed: the first is the question of independent authorities, agencies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course that's not true. the second concerns the famous question of the financial remuneration of our partners. of course there is a problem! and we told the committee! but from saying that there is a problem to not giving the discharge to parliament for the whole year and to saying populist things, such as that we are all responsible, that there is no transparency, there is a huge distance. how is there no transparency? when we, the members of the committee, saw this report.
in writing. we welcome the rapporteur's proposals to develop organ donation and transplantation in the eu, to prohibit any financial transaction between donor and recipient, to prohibit the commercialisation of these transplants as such, to combat transplant tourism in countries where organ trade is carried out, to recognise that organ trade is linked to social inequalities. transplants need to be developed, because they literally save lives, they shape quality of life in a range of chronically ill people, like kidney patients. in order to develop transplants, a high humanistic awareness of organ donation needs to be cultivated, but this requires a specific social environment. in this respect, it is positive that this resolution also recognises that the trade in organs is undermining organ donation and the growth of transplants. they believe that the environment needed to develop the consciousness of organ donation is that of combating eu policy and the commodification of health and welfare, of human needs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. the eib is called upon to play a more active role in supporting private capital financing, enhancing competition, promoting the privatisation of energy, transport and land-use infrastructure, and financing large-scale private partnership projects. in other words, infrastructure useful to capital, with simultaneous privatization, speculating in this and that form. the eib's policy and criteria are governed by the rules of competition and the free market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the monopolies not only exploit community and national funds, infrastructure and major projects, but also resources provided by the eib. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. tax revenues, the reduction of allowances and subsidies for wage earners, pensioners, farmers and the popular strata in general, are being converted into financing for the monopolies. wind turbines that destroy the environment, such as on aegean islands, toll roads that rise vertically on public highways, public-private partnerships, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. similar projects, which are not subject to social control, are also being promoted in third countries in order to secure and increase the profits of companies in the name of development, that is, of capital, of course!
mr president, a precision tsunami, according to the un, threatens more than 40 countries, threatens more than a hundred million people with famine, but, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and council, it also causes the inflation of the poor within the european union to accelerate much faster than the overall inflation. that is why you must move from findings to coordinated public intervention. we're not here as a theoretical institute to just analyze the causes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive. the un security council must be convened urgently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the more savage the exploitation of the working class becomes, the more wealth will be concentrated in the hands of the few. this is capitalism. hunger uprisings, from africa to the middle east, and from southeast asia to latin america, have essentially one overriding slogan: we are hungry! protests are drowning in blood in egypt, somalia, bangladesh, india and elsewhere. there are dead, wounded and hundreds of prisoners. in haiti, already occupied by imperialist forces, the task of repression was taken over by un peacekeepers: even children were shot! that's the nature of imperialism. i'm not sure i understand what you're saying. the anger is not just about food, oil or biofuel prices. it's a popular protest against the poverty and misery that is growing from capitalist barbarity. the imperialist organizations and associations are concerned about the uprising of the hungry and are calling for measures that are not very different from those that have led to starvation and death of millions of people. your measurements are fragmentary. you don't want to and you don't meet the basic needs of the people, because then your wealth has to be taken away. there is a solution. it is the practical disobedience and resistance that will lead to the overthrow of the exploitative capitalist barbarity itself.
the chairman of the council. − i am very pleased to be here with you today in plenary to discuss the galileo implementing regulation. we are all well aware of the geostrategic and economic importance of the galileo and egnos programmes for the european union. before i go on to the text on the table today, let me briefly look at the key events that have confronted the programmes over the past year. under the german presidency, the council took the courageous decision in june 2007 to end the unsuccessful negotiations on the concession contracts. this initiative was followed by a european parliament resolution expressing strong support for the continuation of programmes under the aegis of the european union and a clear call for full funding from the union budget. when the commission then presented a package of proposals in september 2007 to steer the project towards full public sector funding, the implementing regulation was among them. thanks to the agreement reached by the ecofin council and the european parliament last november on the financing decision and the overall decision adopted by the tte council a week later in the conclusions on the future development of galileo, we have managed to bring the european satellite navigation programme out of the deadlock and back into the public sphere. i welcome the constructive cooperation of all three institutions in seeking to agree on a legal basis so that the galileo project can be fully realised. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, ms barsi-pataky, and the chair of the itre committee, ms angelica niebler. the slovenian presidency is proud to have made every effort to reach an agreement at first reading. i am sure that our negotiations have ended with a balanced text. the text before us sets out the budgetary amount needed for the programmes for the period 2007-13 as well as the management and implementation of the gnss programmes and the principles and structure of public procurement. we all acknowledged the responsibility of the european parliament as the budgetary authority towards its citizens. to facilitate the fulfilment of the programme-specific tasks of each institution, an interinstitutional committee on galileo was set up. the committee will monitor progress in the implementation of these programmes, the international agreements linked to the programmes, the preparation of markets, the effectiveness of the governance structure and the annual review of the programme's operation. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is not necessary to stress the importance of european satellite navigation programmes in creating new jobs and competitiveness for europe. the programmes are fully in line with the lisbon strategy and other community policies and will enable us to develop and maintain 'know-how' in europe, particularly as regards applications that will directly benefit our citizens. i would like to thank you for your attention and, in particular, for your constructive cooperation in this important european project.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously a very important meeting and i think we can all be very pleased to see galileo finally emerge as a major european project that can be realised. at the end of november 2007, two major political decisions were taken in favour of this major european project. since then, the european parliament and the council, aware of the need to adopt rapidly the regulation on the continuation of the egnos and galileo programmes, have examined the text of the commission proposal and the aim has been adoption at first reading. i would like to pay tribute to the constructive work of the three institutions, and in particular of parliament. thanks to the efforts of all of us, we have made a great deal of progress in the various trilogues and we are now faced with a draft regulation which satisfies both parliament, the council and the commission. the council, at its meeting on 7 april 2008, under your chairmanship, mr minister, gave a generally positive orientation. it is therefore essential, ladies and gentlemen, that parliament too should vote in favour of it today. i can confirm that the proposal provides for the funding of the programmes in full compliance with the budgetary agreement reached in november 2007 between the european parliament and the council. i would like to thank the european parliament once again, and very warmly, for the major role it has played in achieving this result. the text also establishes satisfactory governance of the programmes. it provides for a strict division of tasks between the commission, the supervisory authority and the european space agency, with the commission as the project manager and the european space agency as the project manager. the future regulation also deals with the safety and security of systems. this aspect of the programmes, although essential, has not been dealt with so clearly and satisfactorily before. the commission will now manage the programme with the permanent and valuable assistance of the member states, which have the know-how. on this point, i can confirm that the galileo infrastructure is designed to provide the five services described in the annex to the future regulation. the provisions of the text relating to security do not in any way alter the scope of this annex. any change which might call into question the civilian nature of the galileo programme should entail a revision of the future regulation. the question of public procurement policy was on our minds. it is necessary to make the most of the skills of all the industrial players in each member state and, at the same time, of course, by means of healthy competition, to limit the risks of additional costs and delays. as regards the question of fundamental ownership, for the three community institutions, the regulation provides that the european community must become the sole owner of all tangible and intangible assets comprising the egnos and galileo systems. finally, the provisions on comitology and the special framework established in the margins of the regulation respond to parliament's wish to be kept constantly informed of the progress of the programmes. and of course, given the role that parliament has played so far, it is obviously very desirable, very essential, that parliament, as the budgetary authority, should be closely associated with the continuation of this programme. the rapid adoption of the text proposed to you will be a first step in the reform of programme governance. the commission should submit a proposal amending the regulation on the management structures of the european gnss programmes. we will bring the regulation into line with the new tasks of authority and supervision as they result from the text you have negotiated with the council. and i am personally committed to ensuring that parliament is closely involved in this second stage of the reform of public systems governance. we are counting on you, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, to support galileo and to pave the way for the rapid and effective implementation of this very important community project. we shall have the opportunity in the coming months to discuss all the many applications that galileo can have and in this connection an action plan will be presented by the commission. but it is true that for these applications to become a reality, galileo must, of course, be present at the meeting. and thanks to the european parliament, mr president, and also, i do not forget, thanks to the portuguese and slovenian presidencies, i believe that galileo now has every chance of succeeding.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, i too would like to express my particular satisfaction on behalf of the committee on budgets with the result we have achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. here, i think, the process was reversed. we had already gotten the money, and we were looking to find the architecture of the program. we delayed the council for about 40 days, but we finally succeeded. the final approval of galileo, in my view, demonstrates three important facts. firstly, at a time when europe is being portrayed as having no ambitions, as being in crisis, the fact that we are able to find resources for such an ambitious technological project proves that the european union can respond to its critics with added value for the benefit of citizens and businesses. the second point was also mentioned by vice-president barrot, namely that without the european parliament there would be no galileo. the european parliament's role in mediating with the council to find the resources was crucial, especially after the failure of the private sector to commit resources contrary to what had been promised earlier. and thirdly, the fact that we now have a programme with 100% community funding, which is financed - that is - exclusively by the european taxpayer, creates special obligations for the european parliament, but also for the project managers, namely the european commission, esa and the galileo supervisory authority. we will not abdicate that responsibility. until 2013 we will be monitoring the management of the programme very closely, because both the money is high and the responsibilities are correspondingly very high. thank you very much and congratulations to everyone who worked on this very satisfactory result.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. tax evasion must be fought. if we do not, it can undermine the very foundations of our democratic society. each state has the right to adopt, with the consent of the representatives of the people, regulations for the effective collection of taxes. however, individual measures in this area at national level often do not have the desired effect. this requires international cooperation between tax authorities, including the exchange of information on bank accounts. at eu level, the finance ministers of the 27 member states work together in this area. at european level, some measures have already been initiated. the council directive of 2003 on taxation of interest income is particularly relevant. in addition, the european union has concluded agreements with third countries, including liechtenstein, which pursue the same objective as this directive. these agreements ensure that interest income paid in these third countries to citizens of an eu member state is subject to income tax in that member state or to withholding tax. the withholding tax may be refunded in the member state of residence of the taxable person if the corresponding income is disclosed for tax purposes. on 4 march 2008, the economic and financial affairs council held an exchange of views on the application of the directive on taxation of interest income. following the debate, the ministers called on the commission to take forward work on a report on the implementation of the directive since it entered into force on 1 july 2005. the report will, inter alia, deal with the definition of the terms 'interest payment' and 'beneficial owner'. the question is rightly raised as to the compatibility of information exchange systems with the protection of personal data. in this context, it should be noted that the community rules on data protection, which also apply in the european economic area, give member states the possibility to adopt legislative measures. such measures may restrict some of the rights of data subjects, such as the right of access or the right to information, where this is necessary to safeguard important financial or economic interests of the european union or of a member state. this is also true of the financial, budgetary and taxation sectors. similar restrictions apply to the effective enforcement of the third anti-money laundering directive. in any event, member states must ensure, in an appropriate manner, that their competent authorities comply with the relevant eu and national data protection rules when collecting and processing personal data. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax authorities are not forced to take action against the taxpayers. we remember the event only to remember it again in a second or third, etc., corresponding revelation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i understand your question very well. we are not dealing here with a commission-led agreement with industry, as was the case for example with the reduction of co2 emissions from motor vehicles, but with what can be called automatic development. as i said, the two-wheeler manufacturers cannot meet the already strict limits for hydrocarbon emissions with conventional two-stroke engines. you can't. that's why they're switching to four-stroke engines, where the problem is different. the study i have mentioned will show what the results of this technical development are, and i repeat once again: if it should turn out that there is no such thing as an automatic solution to the problem i have just mentioned, then it will indeed be necessary to make a legislative proposal. and i repeat, i am prepared to do that.
member of the commission. − if you have mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission shares the view expressed by mr van hecke in his analysis and would like to assure him that it is very active in the fight against child abuse. the rights of the child are one of the commission's main priorities set out in its strategic objectives for 2005-09. this priority was formulated in the commission communication 'towards a european union strategy on the rights of the child' of 2006 and more recently in the commission communication 'a special place for children in the external action of the european union' adopted on 5 february 2008. the recently adopted communication aims to establish a framework for a comprehensive approach by the european union to the protection and promotion of children's rights in third countries, which would be reflected in all areas of our external relations, including development cooperation, humanitarian aid and trade policy. the action plan on the rights of the child in the external action of the european union annexed to this communication sets out the following priority areas for future action at regional and global level: child labour, children and armed conflict, trafficking in children and all forms of violence against children. to implement these policies, the commission will use eur 25 million from the 'investing in people' thematic strand to support initiatives in the following areas: combating child trafficking, children at risk of armed conflict and sexual and reproductive health and rights of minors. the commission will also support, under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, projects implementing the european union guidelines for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child and the european union guidelines on children and armed conflict. without prejudice to the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, it is worth noting that the treaty provides that in its relations with the outside world the union contributes to the protection of human rights, in particular the rights of the child, thereby placing what is probably the most vulnerable group in society at the forefront of the european union's external human rights policy.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr member, naturally, in the case of such a tragic and cruel act, the question arises whether we can do more. in my view, the european commission's strategy is coherent and consistent within the capacity and legal basis available to the commission. and the question of acting in local situations: in my view it is important to decide at the very moment where this risk exists, on the basis of the structures available to the commission, on the basis of the political and organisational possibilities. so in this respect, you are certainly right that it is always necessary to use existing structures and activities that are in place in the event of conflict to strengthen the protection of children from such violence.
member of the commission. - the first question was directed at commissioner frattini, who has decided to become involved in national politics. my colleague, commissioner barrot, is currently in charge of this portfolio and can give an up-to-date answer to the state of preparation of the project you mentioned. the second issue, which is very important, namely intercountry adoption, is a particularly sensitive issue, because it is in no way acceptable to think that intercountry adoption is inherently bad, because it provides adequate good families with adequate backgrounds for many children. it is also true, however, that as a peripheral phenomenon in intercountry adoption, there are also methods and practices that are dangerous and reprehensible. in any event, in view of the powers of the european commission, it is for the member states to take appropriate measures to prevent any risk of abuse of intercountry adoption. this also applies, of course, to the republic of austria. i would like to point out that the rules on intercountry adoption are not harmonised in detail within the european union and that each state takes and adopts its own national measures under the international child protection conventions, which can be modified and improved in various ways. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say again that international adoption in principle opens up the possibility for a large number of children to find a family and a normal human life, but it is also a very sensitive area which the member states must pay full attention to.
member of the commission. − mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is aware of the demographic problems facing pension systems, as birth rates have been falling since the 1970s and people are living longer and the ever-decreasing number of people of working age will have to support the ever-increasing number of people of post-productive age. as you know, under the treaty on european union, social protection is a matter for the member states. the commission therefore does not intervene in the general arrangements for pension systems in the member states, nor does it have an advisory role in the adjustment process at national level. therefore, the member states and the commission have agreed to cooperate in the field of social protection and social inclusion on the basis of the open method of coordination, i.e. the joint setting of objectives by the commission and the council, the reporting by the member states on the basis of those objectives and the summary of the commission's findings in a report subsequently endorsed by the council. member states submitted the first round of national strategic reports in 2002, the second in 2005. the second round of national strategic reports was summarised by the commission in the joint report on social protection and social security, which was endorsed by the european council in 2006. the assessment shows that while recent reforms have led to stronger incentives for people to work longer hours, further action is needed to increase employment rates, especially for women and older workers. increasing employment rates is the best way to ensure the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems. in greece, the risk of poverty in old age is substantially higher than average, 26% in 2005 for people over 65 compared to 19% for people aged 64. the greek pension system needs reform not only for reasons of adequacy but also for reasons of sustainability. reform is needed to strengthen incentives for older people and for women to work more and longer hours. in view of the low proportion of women, policies aimed at increasing the employment rate of women are necessary to ensure the adequacy and sustainability of pension systems in the long term. until people who are not part of the basic pension schemes are allowed to qualify for a pension for a certain longer period, the poverty of older people will continue to be a problem, as the pension system is already facing financial difficulties. it is therefore planned that the next round of national strategic reports will be ready by 2008. the commission shall prepare a summary of the main results of the developments in the member states. this will form the basis for a joint report on social protection and social inclusion to be published in 2009.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your reply. i would like to emphasize the issue of early retirement of mothers, on the basis of the fact that they have children who are still minors when they retire. this limit was 50 years in greece and increased for subsequent generations - not for the present occasion - to 55 years. how do you assess this threshold from the commission's point of view and in comparison with what you know from the other member states?
member of the commission. − as i mentioned at the outset, the overall design of pension systems is in the hands of and within the competence of the individual member states under the treaty on european union. member states have different ways of determining the retirement age, the most commonly used age limit being 65 years, but there are states which have this age limit set for a longer period as well as states which have this age limit set for a shorter period. a similar situation occurs in pension systems in relation to women, where different limits are set, again on the basis of decisions and policy considerations in individual member states. the basic principle which the commission upholds and which is, after all, based on the treaty is that these schemes must not be discriminatory in any respect. however, if that condition is met, it is entirely within the competence and discretion of the member state to set the age limit. i shall therefore not comment in detail on the comparison of the age limits in the various member states.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is concerned about the high level of youth unemployment in the member states, which stood at 15.2% at the end of 2007, almost double the overall unemployment rate. it is also concerned about the persisting long-term unemployment rate, which affects about half (45%) of all unemployed people. although, and i want to stress this, we've seen a fairly significant decline in long-term unemployment recently. this decline varies from one member state to another, but in general we are also seeing a decline in this area. however, the situation remains worrying. a significant number of young people leave education without acquiring the skills needed to enter the labour market. in fact, about one in six young people in the european union leave school early and one in four has not completed upper secondary education. despite considerable efforts by member states to improve youth employment, about half of them have not yet reached the target of giving young unemployed people a chance to start over within six months, as set for 2007, or within four months, as envisaged for 2010. member states are the main actors in implementing the measures needed to reduce youth and long-term unemployment. the european union plays a complementary role through the coordination of member states' national employment policies and through financial support from the european social fund. as you know, the commission publishes a progress report on the employment strategy every year. the european council of march 2008 adopted recommendations addressed to the member states: 17 of them received recommendations in the field of education and training and 15 in the field of employment. in my view, three lines of action are essential to improve the integration of young people into the labour market: 1.improving education and training: efforts should be focused on developing key skills from childhood and on establishing a support mechanism to prevent early school leaving. the lifelong learning programme, implemented since 2007, contributes to the development of the european union as an advanced knowledge society by supporting the modernisation and adaptation of the education and training systems of the member states. 2.promoting social inclusion: in this context, particular attention should be paid to improving the situation of the most vulnerable young people and to eradicating child poverty. the third. development of geographical mobility: unemployment currently runs parallel to labour market shortages. this situation has led the commission to promote cooperation between member states, in particular in favour of greater mobility of young people in the european union. in addition, member states receive financial assistance from the structural funds, in particular the european social fund, to implement their labour market policies. for the period 2007-13, the member states have €75 billion at their disposal. the impact of the esf is considerable. in 2007, around 25% of the unemployed in the eu benefited from esf projects. thus, some 1 million disfellowshipped persons, including young people, are helped each year. every year, some 2 million people enter the labour market after receiving support from the european social fund. although the european regional development fund does not specifically address youth as such, it co-finances actions that directly affect young people, such as support for education and training infrastructure, university research, aid to companies and support for entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises. under the regions for economic change initiative, the commission is promoting the exchange of best practice through the regional network 'integration of young people at the margins of society'. ladies and gentlemen, the fight against youth and longterm unemployment is a priority for europe and the member states. the involvement of young people in active life and society and the better exploitation of their potential are key preconditions for the restoration of strong and sustainable growth in europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, the exchange of information and good practice is one of the great assets of the european union. it is a permanent part of the open method of coordination, it is a permanent part of our work, and i would like to emphasise that the slovenian presidency, for example, devotes one of its presidency conferences to youth employment, which is a typical and ideal way of comparing the different approaches of the member states. you are right that some member states find solutions to certain issues more quickly and effectively than others, and that is why the constant exchange and comparison of experience and practice is one of the most effective methods of progress.
mr president, commissioner, you have spoken of youth unemployment and, in the previous question, of underemployment among women. does the commission intend to present proposals on the reconciliation of family and working life, and in particular on maternity leave and parental leave?
member of the commission. − with regard to the specific case to which ms miguélez ramos made reference, i would like to say that today the commission issued a statement to the effect that we are concerned to learn of the hijacking of a spanish fishing vessel in international waters off the coast of somalia. the commission’s number one concern is the safety of the spanish fishermen on board. it goes on to say that it deplores all acts of piracy and armed robbery. the maintenance of security in the waters off the coast of somalia cannot be adequately ensured by the somali authorities. as a result, there is a serious problem with piracy. it concludes by saying that the commission is of the view that a coordinated approach to the protection of eu merchant and fishing vessels cruising in unsecured maritime zones might legitimately form part of a european maritime policy, but it also relates to european security and defence policy. in any case, this is a matter for the council to decide.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank the honourable member, ms bowles, for her question, which gives me the opportunity to express the commission’s position concerning the important issue of small-scale vessels. i am aware of the creation of an association bringing together owners of vessels under 10 metres long in the uk fleet. i am also aware that the low cod quota allocation is at the root of this association, since the share of the uk’s cod quota for this part of the fleet is only about 3% of the total, despite the fact that the relative catch potential of this part of the fleet may be considerably larger. as you rightly pointed out in your question, member states – in this case the united kingdom – are responsible for distributing fishing opportunities amongst their vessels. i would, furthermore, like to add that member states are also responsible for adjusting the size of the fleet, whether it is made up of small or large vessels, to the fishing opportunities available to it. let me underline that the commission does recognise the specific circumstances of small-scale fleets, more precisely of vessels with a length of under 12 metres that do not use towed gear. for this part of the fleet, the european fisheries fund provides a very favourable financial framework, which allows member states to adopt measures to protect it. that said, i would like to point out that, on the basis of the information i have concerning vessels of under 10 metres in the uk, there are indications that this fleet sector has recently developed a harvesting capacity well beyond the fishing opportunities that were traditionally allocated to it. the solution to this problem is in the hands of the uk authorities.
member of the commission. − i do not have the figures available, but i will certainly look into it and provide you with the information in writing. with regard to cod, i would like to stress that we are now in the process of revisiting the cod recovery plan, which covers quite a large chunk of the seas around the united kingdom. i presented a proposal for a new cod recovery plan in council on monday of last week, when we held an initial exchange of views on the plan, which is also intended to cover the irish sea. so, we are extending the reach of the cod recovery plan further. however, we are trying to fine-tune it to make it more sensitive to the particular realities found in the different waters, so that if there is a particular area of community waters where cod stocks are more plentiful, then certain measures can be taken. in other areas, where cod stocks are in much worse shape, more stringent measures are obviously needed in order to give stocks a chance to recover. cod stocks in general are in very bad shape. i think they are among the worst as regards mortality, and very tough measures are therefore needed to enable these very valuable stocks to recover.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable member, mr ó neachtain, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to address the issue of the decommissioning of fishing vessels. by letter dated 6 august 2007, the irish authorities notified the commission of the state aid scheme entitled ‘adjustment of fishing effort’. the scheme foresees the decommissioning of vessels registered in the polyvalent or beam-trawl segments of the irish fleet, primarily targeting white fish stocks, although vessels targeting pelagic and shellfish stocks are also included. the overall national budget for the scheme is eur 66 million. the commission approved the scheme under state aid rules on 13 november 2007. the irish scheme foresees that aid can be granted until 1 october 2009. however, according to the irish authorities, the closing date for applications under the scheme is 30 april 2008, after which date the level of uptake of the scheme will be clearer. the commission welcomes the initiative taken by ireland in seeking to reduce its fishing fleet capacity so as to lessen the pressure on existing fish stocks. matching fishing capacity to fishing opportunities is a central pillar of the common fisheries policy. moreover, the irish scheme gives priority to the decommissioning of those vessels targeting sensitive white fish stocks, while giving vessel owners already facing reduced quotas, higher fuel costs etc. the opportunity to leave the sector. the remaining operators should benefit from more attractive returns.
member of the commission. − with regard to the crew members of vessels to be decommissioned, i would like to say first of all that the european fisheries fund allows assistance for the permanent cessation associated with decommissioning. however, it is up to the member state concerned whether to include this item of expenditure within its operational programme for the european fisheries fund. i understand that ireland considers that the national state benefit scheme provides compensation for the crews. having said that, apart from the permanent cessation associated with decommissioning, the european fisheries fund (eff) also provides the possibility of socioeconomic compensation, diversification, retraining and early retirement. so it is also possible to provide assistance under the eff in order to retrain crew for different, although related, sectors, providing opportunities for diversification and for seeking alternative employment in other sectors as well. again, i would stress that it is the member state which has to draw up the operational programme. the commission will approve the operational programme as long as it conforms to the parameters of the european fisheries fund, but the actual priorities, the actual areas that are identified, are up to the member state concerned. the commission does not have the right to insist that member states should opt for one rather than the other. as long as they are included within the objectives or the aims of the european fisheries fund, then that is good enough for us.
member of the commission. − i should like to thank the honourable member, mr gklavakis, for the important question he has raised, thereby providing me with the opportunity to express my position concerning this crucial issue and also to touch on the reform being prepared in this area. i am aware of the significant disparities in the sanctions imposed by member states for serious infringements, leading to persistent shortcomings in the current control system. as you rightly pointed out in your question, the penalties imposed by member states are an insufficient deterrent, providing no real incentive for compliance. to give you an example: the average fine in the european union in 2005 was less than eur 2 000, varying from eur 98 in some member states to eur 8 876 in others. let me underline that, according to community law, it is up to the national authorities to ensure that every serious infringement of the common fisheries policy is subject to appropriate follow-up proceedings and, where necessary, to a deterrent penalty. it is the member states which have the primary responsibility and the discretion to define the amount and to impose the sanctions for serious infringements of the common fisheries policy. the commission can only supervise and evaluate this process. having said this, i would like to inform you that, on the basis of the analysis of the member states’ annual serious infringements reports over the past years, and especially the court of auditors’ report no 7/2007, the commission has decided to launch a reform of the control system of the common fisheries policy, envisaging the harmonisation of sanctions at community level, along with a clearer definition of serious infringements, to guarantee uniformity and transparency. i am confident that this new, simpler and more effective control regime will ensure a level playing field between community fishermen by strengthening respect for the common fisheries policy rules and by spreading a culture of compliance.
mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased with your reply. i am glad that we will finally have a uniform approach in all the member states of the european union. i hope that this will be applied in all areas. i would like to continue this principle by noting something else: the less fish there are in the seas, the more stringent we have to be, because otherwise the future will be very bad.
mr president, the three judgments of the court of justice of the european communities in viking lane, laval and raffert have a single recital, based on the four freedoms of capital movement guaranteed by the maastricht treaty, the internal market directives, the directive on the posting of workers, as enshrined in articles 43 and 49, the renamed euro-constitution, the lisbon treaty. the decisions of the court of justice of the european communities are political, deeply reactionary decisions, imposed by the working middle ages to increase the profits of the large business groups. in addition to the right to strike and collective agreements being called into question, i would like to add a third important dimension: the court of justice has held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment is not a fundamental principle of community law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. workers from countries that joined after 1 may 2004 owe nothing to anyone! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. equal pay for equal work.
member of the commission. - it is obviously extremely frustrating, as it is for members of parliament, for a debate of such importance and for such an excellent report, to be limited in time. i would simply like to note that i have heard two main currents in your parliament. there are those - and i'm not criticizing this, i'm just saying that's what i'm observing - there are those who believe that fear pessimism is what's going to get the chinese out of africa. forget it, it's obviously not that. i believe that it is the optimism of modernity and openness. i have heard other things here and i think that we must gradually become aware that this type of relationship with africa is precisely what is causing africa to believe less and less in europe. we must stop saying things like "we have a moral right in africa". we have no rights in africa, none, not the least, not moral, not anything. and our past certainly doesn't allow for that and i would like to remind you of that. the same way i heard - i'm sorry, i don't know if mr. cousteaux is still here, i guess it's a slip - to blame the chinese for taking our natural resources in africa! as if we owned the natural resources of africa! i have to tell you, though, this is pretty surprising. i'll admit that i'm sometimes quite surprised by this kind of talk. so i have to tell you that the danger i see -- we have to discuss this with africans -- the only danger i see with the chinese presence, with the chinese investment in africa, is the resource curse for africans. it's called the resource curse or the rent economy. this is a subject which must be brought to the table in our relations with the africans. but for the rest, i must tell you that i believe much more in dialogue, in tripartite partnership, in listening too, and in mutual understanding of problems, in the search for concrete cases of cooperation, than in all the other enchanting speeches which consist in saying: "we europeans must give lessons to protect these unfortunate africans from the chinese". i must tell you that i, every day, absolutely every day, in my bilateral relations, measure the limits of such speeches and therefore i do not practice them, i will not practice them and i do not ask anyone to practice them. mrs gomes' report contains all the useful clues. i can trace them back to pretty much everything that's in there. you know, i'm going to china in a few hours. i'm meeting with the minister of commerce. we're meeting the prime minister with president barroso. you think we're not going to talk about human rights, tibet, democracy, africa? of course we're going to talk about it! in the singular colloquium of classical diplomacy. but the megaphone diplomacy, in the case we are dealing with, is totally counterproductive. the more you tell africans, the more you tell them that they should be wary of the chinese, that they are busy colonizing them, that it is the curse of resources, the more you say that, the less they will hear you, and the less they will listen to you. europe has the means to achieve its ambition. there are two kinds of people. first, we have our model and we have to defend our model and we have to be different from others because our model is different from others. it is based on shared values, it is based on tolerance, it is based on openness, it is based on dialogue, it is based on listening, it is based on mutual respect. that is europe, and europe does not have to change all that. europe does not have to become something else or pursue models that are not its own. that's the first thing i wanted to say. the second point i have already made. if we had a little courage - and in particular the european parliament can help us a great deal and has already done so - to convince our member states to do a better division of labour, to change a little the procedural rules which impose the implementation of the european development fund, if we gave a little to the european institutions - the european parliament, by making a budgeting of the edf which, moreover, would be much more politically efficient - if you gave a little more to the commissioners to make policy based on our values, with the means of the edf, i assure you that europe would not have to fear competition with china. this is the real world. because there is one element, though: we have a tremendous advantage. what's the advantage? we're not loans, we're gifts. so i'm not explaining myself well. africans today are turning to the chinese, blaming us for not being responsive enough when we give donations, that is, money that they do not have to pay back, while on the other hand, we make concessional loans that, it must be said, still absorb natural resources. if these loans go to infrastructure, go to sustainable development, who can argue that it's good for africa? you know, infrastructure in africa, not europe, not europe and china, not europe, china and the united states, not europe, china, japan and the united states, i would even say the rest of the world can bring in as much resources as they want, it will be years before there are enough structures and infrastructure in africa to support real development. so all the money that can come in, all the investment that can come in, it's not necessarily bad. the whole question is how this is exploited, how this is framed. i know i can't get everyone to agree, but that's the beauty of democracy. i believe very sincerely that it is in openness, in dialogue, in the search for a triangular partnership, in this case, that we will make a difference. europe will, in my view, always remain a special partner of africa, for historical reasons, for reasons of proximity, for reasons of model. i am not afraid of this and i believe that if we really want to be present in africa - someone said it is very important - we have to do what i suggest to do and we have to add, in my opinion, an element. we must stop believing that our interest in africa is an interest based only on generosity, on our good heart, on humanism, on all that... of course, this is also our duty, but we must accept that the relationship with africa is also a great potential for win-win relations between europe and africa. that there is a tremendous potential for mutual economic development and that there is absolutely nothing wrong or immoral in placing our relationship in that dimension too, because at least the chinese have a great quality: they do not hide their plan. i have never heard the chinese say that they are going to africa to help africans or to make development in africa. no, they're fine with it. the rules of the game are economic development and it is their interest first. i think that when you respect a partner, you have to accept that too. we must not reject this dimension. there is no miracle. if africa doesn't develop economically, it won't develop at all and it's not our charitable policies that will make the difference. that's what i meant. i am sorry, madam president, that i have been a little long, but i have expressed a conviction which also comes from my daily experience with these countries. and finally, one last thing, it's only worth what it's worth. the chinese ship, it's busy returning to china for now. and we always say that europe has little political influence. i just came from the sadec summit. i've spoken to all the heads of state. zimbabwe was obviously on the agenda. i have spoken with all the heads of state: angola, mozambique, all of them. i pinned that chinese boat thing. there were dockers who reacted, but there were also the various countries that refused to take the ship. and the ship, according to the latest information i have, is being sent back to china. it is worth what it is worth, little europe has just tried to do its little european duty with soft diplomacy and with the dockers, of course, with the voice of the people. all of this has been useful, but i wanted to say it because it also proves, however, that africans are not ready to accept anything in terms of diplomacy and in terms of politics either.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by marie-arlette carlotti, on behalf of the committee on development, on the implementation of the programming of the 10th european development fund [2007/2138 (ini) ] (a6-0042/2008).
member of the commission. - madam president, i shall be very brief because, in essence, i have already, and i did not realize it, answered a number of questions in my initial speech. i would like to come back to something that mrs carlotti has pointed out and which is very correct, of course, and that is that at a time when we have never before faced so many development challenges, it must be said that our member states are reducing their official development aid, because we are actually going to lose - for the first time, there is a reduction of 1 700 million euros. it's huge, and you can imagine all the things that we could do in terms of hospitals, doctors, etc., and teachers, for developing countries. and so what we will propose from this point of view, mrs carlotti, at the european council, is that at least each member state reconfirms the commitment it made, if you remember in 2005, which is very important, and then that they agree to propose a transition plan to demonstrate that they can achieve the objective they have committed to for 2010 and 2015. i think they will then feel really constrained by public commitments. secondly, mr hutchinson, you are right about the percentages. i simply want to say that for agriculture and rural development, the ninth edf is 650 million euros, the 10th edf is 1 250 million euros. there's a doubling in absolute numbers, but in percentage, you're right. secondly, there are actually four countries that had chosen agriculture, and now there are 25 countries that have chosen agriculture. but it is not enough, it is not yet ambitious enough, and it has taken a lot of lobbying to get a number of countries to agree to this logic. as for the epa, whenever we meet, we will have an exchange of views on this, but today it is very late, so you have blunted, time has blunted my passion on the subject. i'm not going to repeat myself, i just want to say and reconfirm something that will please you. i have always said that countries which do not enter an epa would obviously not be sanctioned on their envelope and that, of course, one was not linked to the other. and so, that the envelope and the implementation of the envelope would not be used in any way by any kind of pressure or blackmail phenomenon to get them to agree to enter the epas. that's what they've always said and that's what they'll always say. i think mrs budreikaité has mentioned this in connection with ratification. today, all the member states of the european union have ratified it. there are still five countries of our partners that have to ratify. i hope that will be done by the end of the month, so that we can start all this in june. i repeat once again my conviction, as you do, that the budgetization of the european development fund would undoubtedly make it possible to be much more efficient, to have democratic control, to have involvement and appropriation of this development policy, as you do in other policies. and that would give me, i think, a much greater scope for action, for responsiveness, for legitimacy, for credibility. i hope that the member states who are still opposed to it will eventually be convinced.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, what you have told us is not enough and it is not convincing for the european parliament. the choice of the united states to sign separate agreements on a matter of community competence is an insult to the european union and must be said so. the choice of the czech government to sign such an agreement is a breach of community competence. no one has the right to give personal data of european citizens to the americans, or anyone else, without control by the european union and the european parliament. more than the pnr has. i would therefore like to take note of the following, ladies and gentlemen of the council: it is not just the new member states. greece, while one of the first 15 eu member states, still requires a visa for greek citizens to travel to the united states. that must be abolished. but with a unified approach that doesn't violate the privacy of citizens - and i want you to include that in your final position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the so-called two-track approach you have presented us with regarding the privilege of visa exemption, america will now be able to legally require greece and the new member states - and indeed, with the "will of europe" - to give it even more sensitive passenger data than is theoretically required for everyone from the pnr, and direct access even to the criminal records of their citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he said: the eight aspirant countries [...] have strong incentives to commit to implementing the full suite of security standards. in other words, they're "on fire" for the visa so we can force them to accept anything! but, commissioner, the letter and spirit of europe's common visa policy does not simply require that the visa system - or the visa-free regime - be given to everyone equally, but that it be given to all citizens on the same terms. america has managed to have the political will to overturn the common european policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the conclusion by a single country of an agreement with the united states on visa exemption involves many risks. because in this way the united states can gain access to the european union's personal data bases, such as travellers' personal data, tax records and even criminal records. in this area, member states must be particularly careful, as it concerns matters of community competence, such as the schengen treaty and the common european asylum policy. for this reason, i was completely opposed to the czech initiative to conclude a bilateral memorandum of understanding with the united states. the czech example was followed by other countries. the memorandum of understanding has already been signed by estonia, latvia, hungary, slovakia and malta. i am not satisfied with the explanations he has given and the statements made by the commissioner, because he has not answered what will happen if the conventions already signed by the countries mentioned contain elements contrary to the european positions. my country, greece, which is one of the first 15 countries in the eu, is still obliged to comply with the visa procedure. yet, he did not follow that tactic! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. today's success is the fruit of a coordinated and effective effort made by us and many other colleagues across the spectrum of the european parliament. this effort was also facilitated by the official greek position, albeit belatedly, shifting in favour of seeking a genuine compromise solution, with a compound name of common acceptance. now is the time to work hard to exploit mobility and to find a solution, always within the framework of the un, with an honest compromise, in 2008. the greek interest, as well as the interest of the peoples in peace and stability in the region, requires that a new long-standing stalemate and the re-engagement of public life in the "skopanianization" be avoided.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the european union to be a "common market economy" and to be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the source of the problems in the balkans is imperialist planning, eu, us and nato interventions and border changes. the accession of fyrom and other balkan countries to the eu and nato involves the peoples in the inter-imperialist confrontations of the us, eu and russia for control of energy sources and transport routes, with serious risks for the peoples of the wider region. the ccc does not focus on nomenclature. it advocates a commonly accepted solution to the name issue, one that expresses exclusively a geographical identification, far from nationalisms and irredentism that divide peoples. the triumphal speeches of the apologists of the eu, nd, pasok, syn and laos, in support of supposedly positive amendments around the name, are intended to divert the people from the main thing: the imperialist interventions and plans in the balkans. to hide that their submission to imperialist ambitions and the transformation of the eu, the usa and nato into mediators, make our country a target of blackmail and pressure, in exchange for full participation in imperialist projects, which are intensifying even more after the nato summit in bucharest.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, the question of crossborder agreements is not a matter for texts at the level of lysias and cicero. nor should frontex operations solve all the problems which we think exist between europe and the unfortunate people who are trying to find refuge in it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because if there were consequences, if frontex, for example, in addition to its rescue function, also gave us information on where they come from and which countries are those that allow the illegal trafficking of unfortunate people, who sometimes end up at the bottom of the sea, then the european union would know how to take action against these countries and cut the funds that it is already generously providing them today.
madam president, illegal immigration is a phenomenon which, unfortunately, now in summer, with the good weather - especially in greece and the mediterranean - will be very high. it will be ramped up both at the sea and at the land borders of greece. my country is doing everything humanly possible. it is taking all possible measures, but they are not enough to stop this wave. frontex was set up five years ago. are we pleased with its results? i would say yes, given the meagre technical means and limited powers it has. but if we really want to make a political decision, then we must further strengthen frontex with logistical infrastructure and with competences. it is the only way to do our duty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr medina ortega, for this additional question. as mentioned, the council has not yet held a summit discussion and does not yet have a comprehensive assessment of the effects of the enlargement of the schengen area, but these assessments are already available in the individual countries. since you asked about the slovenian experience, let me say this. it's certainly not about building new walls. it is about moving the external borders of the european union to new borders. in other words, the external borders of the schengen area have shifted to cover a larger part of the european union's member states. for the countries that have a new part of the external border of the schengen area, this was a challenging project that had been years in the making. the european union also recognised the need for this project and set up a specific funding source, the schengen facility, to help establish appropriate controls at the new external borders of the schengen area. you also asked about the border between slovenia and croatia. the fact is, until recently, this boundary was invisible. it is also a fact that this border was also a transitional border after independence. and the fact is that we have managed, together with our partners in the european union, to establish a border control system that does not make it more difficult for citizens of the republic of croatia to cross the border, while preserving all the elements required for effective control under schengen standards and regulations.
the chairman of the council. - question by mr pirker: the fact is that the procedures for the integration of the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein into the schengen area have already been initiated. at the moment, these procedures, including the evaluation procedures, are still ongoing and the presidency's view is that the entry of these two countries into the schengen area depends exclusively on the results of these procedures, in particular the results of the evaluation. we are not aware of any reservations expressed by individual member states about the procedures envisaged for the entry of a country into the schengen area. i have to say, about mrs doyle's question, i'm not sure it's schengen. it's more likely to be airport security rules, but i certainly couldn't explain the reasons for the 20-meter airport bus ride here. i believe, however, that there are rules of the road at airports which are not necessarily part of schengen but probably relate to airport security.
the chairman of the council. - mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, i would like to answer the following questions. in july 2006, the council adopted, in addition to four other regulations in the field of cohesion policy, the regulation on the european regional development fund, the regulation on the european social fund and the regulation on the cohesion fund. in accordance with article 3 of this regulation, the assistance from the said funds is also intended, inter alia, for certain island and island member states and mountain areas. at the same time, the council and the european parliament adopted a regulation on the european social fund. this regulation defines the role of the european social fund as: improving business and employment opportunities, promoting high levels of employment and new and better jobs. these two regulations are coordinated with regard to the provision of aid to specific areas. in accordance with these, member states may pay particular attention in their operational programmes and projects to promoting development and employment in the areas mentioned by the honourable member in her question. it is therefore for each member state to assess independently which operational programmes and which specific measures under those programmes meet the criteria set out in the question. the commission shall assess the proposed programmes, draw attention to any shortcomings in terms of achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and respecting the provisions of the respective regulations, and, if all these conditions are met, adopt these proposals. as regards the formulation of possible new legislative measures in the field of cohesion policy, it is for the commission to decide on this on the basis of the monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy. for the period 2007-13, the first such opportunity will be to consider the first interim report on the implementation of cohesion policy, which we expect the commission to present in june.
madam president, i thank the minister for taking all the measures provided for by the structural funds and the european social fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not a single entity, but it is a single entity, and it is not a single entity, but it is a single entity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, it seems paradoxical to discuss wto reform at a time when the doha round is in a prolonged stalemate. however, concerns about the functioning and future of the wto are justified insofar as this impasse is due to structural and institutional problems and deficiencies in the world trading system. the report by mrs muscardini illustrates this. in my view, the major challenges of the reform project lie in three areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim, of course, remains to ensure that the benefits are shared equally among wto members and that developing countries are integrated harmoniously into the world trading system. secondly, the necessary institutional arrangements to guarantee the consensus, the united commitment, the democratic legitimacy, the transparency and the effectiveness of an organized global trade governance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the right of wto member states to apply trade restrictive measures aimed at protecting the environment, public health and the consumer is legitimate. the case of trade partners against the union in the wto courts on genetically modified organisms and the ban on imports of hormones in beef from the usa and canada is a typical example. however, it should be understood that the solution is not to overburden the wto with additional functional areas, but to seek a relationship of mutual support and coherence between the objectives and actions of the wto and other international organisations. ladies and gentlemen, it is not the wto's job to fill the functional gaps left by other specialized agencies of the united nations system. the world community is experiencing a worrying financial crisis. it's also experiencing a silent food storm. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. global challenges require global understanding, systemic convergence and consistent regulatory regimes. this is true of social responsibility, environmental protection and economic competitiveness.
member of the commission. − madam president, i listened very carefully to the various comments that the honourable members have made. we do recognise in the commission that asynchronous approvals of gmos can represent a problem for the availability and cost of feed imports. although the rising costs in this sector are the result of different, complex and sometimes much wider factors, all these factors have been taken into consideration in the study that was made by dg agri. the commission’s efforts are targeted at addressing some of the key factors behind this issue, both at internal level, though the authorisation of new gmos in the full respect of the eu legislative framework, and at international level, through the discussions with our major trading partners. several speakers have posed the question whether the commission would be prepared to move from zero tolerance to something higher. i must remind you that to do so we need codecision both from parliament and the council, and we need to have the support of member states. you know what the stance of the member states has been in the various standing committees, where we rarely, as far as i know never, managed to get a qualified majority. i would like to say that to impose restrictions over imported animal products which are the product of animals fed with gmos would probably fail to comply with our international commitments. lastly i want to say a few words about the delays in the authorisation process, which was mentioned by a number of speakers. there is an ongoing discussion between the commission and the efsa to verify the possibility of efficiency gains in the authorisation procedure without any compromise on the quality of the scientific assessment. one of the elements which have been highlighted is the need to better communicate to applicants the requirements for the authorisation in order to improve, from the start, the quality of their dossiers. furthermore, and as a result of this discussion, the authority has taken the commitment to carry out the preliminary validity check within six weeks from the submission of the application, thus significantly reducing the timeline for the authorisation procedure. it is also important to note that the approval process could be significantly shortened if the commission had greater support from member states in the comitology process for the authorisation of gmos. lastly i want to reply to a comment that was made by a speaker that in our risk management we take into account economic grounds only. i would say that, for us, the primary factor is the safety to human and animal health and the environment as well. having said that, i would like to say that the commission remains open to discuss possible suggestions in this field, but only on the precondition that any proposed solution respect the fundamental aim of guaranteeing the safety of the products placed on the eu market.
in writing. the eu's gmo policy is pro-corporate and anti-consumer, because it increases farmers' dependence on monopolisation and control of agriculture by corporations. it's a public health hazard, since it's been scientifically proven that several mutants are blamed for allergies and immune system suppression. the irreversible effects on the environment multiply the risk of gmos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species. this policy is economically damaging. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, and the introduction of a new vaccine. the proposed option of 'zero tolerance' is false and ineffective, the result of a compromise of the interests of the multinationals. it allows the cultivation of certain gmos, the consumption of products derived from the use of gm feed, such as meat from third countries. this policy has a specific objective. to limit the strong reactions of workers in eu member states who demand safe, gmo-free food at affordable prices. we believe that genetically modified crops should be banned completely in the member states, as should imports of products containing traces of the mutants. at the same time, however, measures must be taken to protect community production and consumers.
member of the commission. - thank you very much, madam president, and thank you very much to all the members who have spoken in this debate. i am very grateful for your comments on the commission's initiative and work which i have presented to you today and which we will no doubt continue to discuss in the months and years to come. the euro, the economic and monetary union - as many of you have said in your speeches - is a utopia in the making. and it has come true in the space of ten years. i think it is a reason to thank those who launched this initiative in the early years, in the first decades of european integration: mr werner in 1970, the first report on economic and monetary union; mr valéry giscard d'estaing and mr helmut schmitt in the 1970s and 1980s; undoubtedly mr jacques delors and all those who worked with him to make the maastricht treaty and the current idea of economic and monetary union that we are developing possible. and it is a source of satisfaction not only because we have made reality what they imagined, but because that reality gives us results that ordinary citizens appreciate. some of you were talking about the outcomes for citizens and the real economy: what are you going to understand out here? the citizens understand much better than some of us imagine that, thanks to the euro and thanks to european integration, there are now 16 million more jobs in the euro area than there were ten years ago. sixteen million more jobs. much more jobs created in the eurozone than in the united states. five times more jobs created in the euro area since the euro has been in existence than in the decade before the euro came into existence. and that is perfectly understood by the public. the citizens understand this very well, and they also understand and ask us, in the face of the current situation, with very important challenges and with very tense and difficult situations on the markets and in the economic environment, not to stand still and to continue to take initiatives. and since we have instruments of economic integration, we must use these instruments: those provided for in the treaty, those put into operation ten years ago on the basis of what has been achieved and learning from experience how difficult it is to achieve certain objectives. we need to coordinate economic policies better, not just budgetary policies. we talk about this when we talk about the lisbon strategy, but we must talk, in particular, when we refer to the euro area, about the specific needs of the euro area, both in the coordination of budgetary policies and in the coordination of structural reforms, the development of which is essential for the proper functioning and for the good results of the euro area in terms of employment, growth, low price growth and greater opportunities for the citizens, for those we represent. there are achievements, no doubt, and we must not hide them. for example, one achievement: all the excessive deficits in the euro area have been corrected. we have also approved today in the commission the abrogation of the excessive deficits of portugal and italy. there is no euro area country with a deficit above the limit set by the treaty and the stability and growth pact. and that, only a few years ago, when we were debating the reform of the stability and growth pact here, many of you could not have imagined it. but the success of the stability pact and the success of the commitments of the governments of the euro area member states leads to this result that there are no excessive deficits. but there are very important things to do, and they must be done. and that is what this initiative is about: getting back on track, and i will bring you here a list of issues to be discussed - debate in parliament, debate in the eurogroup - and i agree with those of you who have said that the work of the eurogroup is extraordinarily important and very positive the work it has been doing under the presidency of jean claude juncker. it must be discussed in parliaments and before national public opinion and with the governments of the member states, and it must be discussed with the european central bank without fear, with respect and with satisfaction, given the way in which the european central bank exercises its independence, which is an extraordinarily efficient bank even though it is an extraordinarily young bank compared to the bank of england, the federal reserve, the bank of japan or any other. two final comments. one, about the countries that are not, and apparently do not want to be, in the eurozone. i am not referring to the candidates who will be in the next few years, as soon as they meet the conditions, but to those who have decided either by an opt-out clause or in a referendum that they do not want to be. one of the honourable members said: 'the euro area will have problems in the future'. i wish you well that those who are going to have problems in the future are those who do not want to be in the euro area. in a global economy, those who will suffer the consequences of being isolated are those who want to be isolated. those who are integrated, those who are willing to share and decide their economic policy in common, will make the right, the right decisions and will obtain for their citizens the benefits of living in an integrated way.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. the implementation of the anti-people, anti-working class aims of the maastricht treaty required the creation of the un and the euro, which were the preconditions for today's reactionary lisbon treaty and the escalation of the attack on workers' rights and freedoms. the ratification of these decisions by the eu and the governments by centre-right and centre-left forces, in greece by the nd, pasok, and also the syn, which voted in favour of the maastricht treaty, and the refusal to hold referendums, have served the best interests of capital and demonstrate its fear in the face of the reaction of the people. the removal from the states of one of the most important instruments for the exercise of economic policy and its assignment to the european central bank helped capital's basic choice to reduce its labour costs and multiply its profits. the reduction of wages, which has been the constant theme of the ekt since its foundation, has led to a steep decline in the purchasing power of workers, a rapid deterioration in the standard of living of the working class family and poverty. the question of the un and the euro is growing in most countries. the arguments for price stability, protection of the economies, etc., have proved to be excuses in vain. the euro only protects the profits of monopolies, facilitates privatization and mergers, creates conditions for even greater exploitation
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the deterioration of the situation in georgia.
mr president, the report we are considering today is the most important political expression of the european parliament on human rights in the world. the challenges are great and the european parliament can - and must - be the guarantor of democracy and human dignity. it is important that the european union should take a firm and united position on these issues, because only in this way can it contribute to strengthening and improving joint action. there must be no double standards in the interests at stake. the abolition of the death penalty and torture, the protection of children in armed conflict, must be among the main objectives of our policy. the protection of human rights must permeate all relations and agreements with third countries and no concessions, no concessions are to be tolerated. human rights must be our red line that defines every policy choice. in conclusion, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his very good and detailed report.
in writing. the report cynically expresses the eu's imperialist policy. it is a question of the european union's ability to act as a defender of human rights and as an exporter of democracy to the world. the eu's respect for human rights and democracy was tragically experienced by the peoples of the former yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq and palestine, who were blood-soaked by the imperialists of the eu, the usa and nato in the name of human rights. the eez selectively uses human rights as a pretext for pressure and blackmail against countries which for various reasons resist its imperialist ambitions, such as cuba, vietnam, north korea, belarus, iran. at the same time that the eu is being presented as the champion of human rights throughout the world, it says not a word about the crime of genocide committed by israel against the palestinian people, the hundreds of iraqis murdered by the occupying forces of the imperialists of the usa and the allied eu member states. the report's references to poverty, the environment, labour rights, health, etc., are a challenge to the peoples who are suffering under imperialist domination and capitalist exploitation. the committee of the regions condemns the report and denounces the provocative hypocrisy of the eu and the selective use of human rights as a means of imperialist pressure and even of waging wars against peoples.
mr. president, more than 30 thousand police with special forces of the army, with water storms and tear gas took to beating and bleeding workers in the streets around taksim square in istanbul and the building of the disk workers' federation. as a result, over 500 arrests and injuries among the protesters. we express our solidarity with the working class and the workers of turkey in general. we demand an end to the persecution of political and trade union activity. the right of the working class to strike and demonstrate on may day, a day of honour and remembrance for the workers who fell on the field of class struggle to defend and expand their conquests and to abolish the exploitation of man by man, has been taken away. we want to condemn the unacceptable ban and the brutal repression by the turkish government. at the same time, we support the right of trade unions and political parties to organise their may day rally in the historic taksim square in istanbul, where 34 workers were murdered on 1 may 1977.
mr president, trade agreements can help to stabilize relations between the two sides. at the same time, however, certain essential conditions and values must be taken into account in the negotiations for the conclusion of a free trade agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights, including geographical indications. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, before going into the content of the report, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr gklavakis, and the agriculture committee members for the very good job they have done on this extremely sensitive issue of cotton reform. in 2006, as you know, the court of justice annulled the cotton reform that we agreed in 2004, ruling that it was in breach of the proportionality principle. the court also ruled that a new regime should be adopted within a reasonable time. the commission therefore immediately responded to the ruling by commissioning several studies, launching a comprehensive consultation process and carrying out the impact assessments. on this basis, the commission proposes to continue coupling 35% of the aid, which allows for maintaining cotton production and respecting the accession treaties of greece, portugal and spain. at the same time, decoupling of 65% is in line with the cap reform process and the commitments of the european union to its international partners, specifically in the developing countries. against this background, i very much welcome the support in the report for the 35% coupled rate as a balanced way forward. your report correctly draws attention to the process of restructuring which the cotton sector within the european union is undergoing. i understand the needs of the sector and therefore i am positive about amendments proposing to support this process, for example through lowering the national base area and thereby increasing the coupled aid per hectare. on this point, i find your suggestions very reasonable. however, you also call for increased aid per hectare where the cotton area falls below the defined area at national level, and this poses a problem. i have to say that this is actually a countercyclical system that would make the aid within the european cotton sector more trade-distorting and would be in clear contradiction of our multilateral trade negotiation mandate within the doha development round. i can support the amendments regarding a national envelope. i specially welcome the measure aimed at restructuring of the ginning sector and improving the quality of production. however, all restructuring measures should be compatible with the wto green box and not overlap with measures that we already have in place within rural development policy. finally, it may not come as a surprise that i oppose a transfer of aid for cotton regions from the second pillar to the first pillar. i think it is obvious – and i have had the chance to express this opinion on several occasions here in parliament – that we need to strengthen our rural development policy. i would like to underline that in cotton regions in spain and greece rural development programmes are actually efficiently used, for example the different agri-environmental schemes. i am looking forward to a fruitful discussion on this very important issue.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i listened carefully to the commissioner. the european union has four cotton-growing countries: greece, spain, bulgaria and, to a very small extent, portugal. when i took over the report i worked closely with a lot of people, i took suggestions, i talked to people, so i can say that this report is the product of a long and long collaboration. i have worked with members of my committee, whom i thank, with spanish actors from both the productive and the seed sector, and of course with my fellow greeks. i would point out that the report was adopted by the committee on agriculture by 28 votes to 6. that shows a lot of acceptance. i would like to refer briefly to the proposal for support for cotton made in 2004 and annulled by the court of justice. it defined a coupled aid of 35% and a disconnected aid of 65%. but the years that followed showed a decline in cotton cultivation. and so in spain we have reduced cotton production by 50%, and in greece by about 20%. the number of farms in spain fell by 25% and in greece by 11%, respectively. in this report we aim to maintain and maintain cotton production in europe, given that the european union as a whole produces only 2% of world production. we have therefore agreed that the appropriations allocated to the member states producing cotton will be maintained in full. of course, in order not to run the risk of cotton production falling, of becoming unproductive, we asked - and i was very pleased to hear that you accepted - for a small increase in the funding per hectare, which necessarily means that, because the total amount is maintained, the area under cultivation will be reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aid linked to the decoupled aid is maintained at 35%-65%. but we have asked that if a member state wishes, it may, with a threshold of 35%, change the coupled aid. i would like to say that it should be made clear that the new area is not a ceiling, the exceeding of which will entail penalties as in the past. it is a way of securing the current overall support for the sector. we believe that the proposed increase in aid will be a strong incentive to maintain the crop. we also propose the creation of a national portfolio, financed by a 1% deduction from the coupled aid, from the non-absorbed funds and from the 22 million euro transferred to pillar 2. what's the national file gonna do? first, it has lofty goals, such as boosting research into new varieties that will consume less water and fewer drugs, so there will be great environmental benefit. secondly, improving the quality of the cotton produced and modernising the hatcheries. the report as it stands satisfies both the farmers of the member states and the objectives of the european union, because it involves own financing and environmental measures which the european union so badly needs. in conclusion, i would like to mention the excellent cooperation and support which i have had in the preparation of the report from all the colleagues in the european parliament, so that we can succeed in introducing new ideas and proposals. i am confident that the implementation of the new regime will help to maintain a flourishing cotton industry in the european union and a viable cotton industry. finally, i would like to thank the commission once again for the constructive way in which it has dealt with the sensitivities of the producing countries, so that we can finally reach a result which will help the council to move in the right direction.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the european union is running a 70% deficit in cotton. the sector should therefore be further strengthened. this would also help to develop the manufacturing process, i.e. cotton-cloth-clothing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of quotas and penalties. in particular, since the last revision of the cap, the impact is greater since the partial release of 65% of the aid from production has been adopted. in greece, one year after the new cotton com was introduced, production fell by 20% and in spain by more than 50%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of farming. several hatcheries are not viable and are closing. many jobs were lost. the increase in the cost of producing the products had to be accompanied by a corresponding increase in aid. but the opposite is happening, we have a decline. the proposal by mr glavachis, despite the positive proposals it contains, does not solve the problem. the commission proposal is accepted. we are opposed to reducing the quota in greece in order to increase the area-related aid. this means that a new number of small and mediumsized cotton producers will be wiped out, while the rest will not be guaranteed a permanent solution to their problems.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the work he has done and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with him on this report. unfortunately, however, the report we are discussing today is being pushed by the european court of justice's decision and not by a political desire to secure a long-term and stable status for the cotton sector by 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is difficult to agree that the eligible areas for greece will be reduced to 270,000 hectares, when last year we cultivated 340,000 hectares. the result would be that such an extension would result in a further reduction of the aid. it is also difficult to accept that seed-producing enterprises will be supported by pillar 1. we could support quality improvement but not measures which can be included in pillar 2. of course, we would like above all a stable system where both decoupled and coupled aid and rural development would be in pillar 1 and would be part of the national file as it is in regulation 17/82 in annex 8 and flexibility would be given to the member states to apply that regulation. finally, and above all, i should like to congratulate the spanish government on having taken the cotton case to the court of justice, as the greek government should have done with regard to tobacco.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have listened carefully to the different concerns, the different ideas raised by the honourable members. i think that we are not that far apart, and i am sure that, at the end of the day, it will be possible to find an acceptable compromise. i think that we have to keep in mind that, when the court of justice annulled the cotton reform, they did not put into question the coupled/decoupled part, the 35/65: not at all. the reason for the position of the court of justice was the fact that they concluded that we needed to make a more in-depth impact assessment. that is actually what we have been doing now. but that does not mean that we have seen any reason to change the coupled/decoupled part, and if farmers should stop producing, they will, of course, not use the decoupled part. they can continue with their money, although they are not producing cotton in the future. i think that we might end up in a situation, because i think some of the difficulties the sector has been facing are actually rooted before the cotton reform was made in 2004. but i hope that the result of this reform will be that we will have a cotton sector. it will be probably with the development that we have seen – it will be smaller, but i hope that it will be more competitive as well. i think that quite a lot can be done – this was mentioned by mrs batzeli – to improve the quality of the production. here we are contributing to adding value to the product with a label of origin. here i think the cotton-producing member states should take advantage of this possibility to get a better price for their products so that we can maintain a prosperous, competitive cotton sector within the european union.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i understand that we all agree on one thing: we want to continue to grow cotton in the european union. how could we not? the european union is running a deficit of 70%. the european union, as it is retreating at all levels, will start to run short in everything. we produce only 2% of world production in the european union. we must protect it at all costs. let us not forget that cotton accounts for only 0.15% of agricultural production in the european union. the report also makes a great effort, and in the countries i visited which grow cotton, the producers themselves have assured me that they are very keen to produce quality cotton, which is very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but what i would like to explain again, because i understand that it was not understood, is that the area was reduced in order to increase the subsidy and the total of the country-specific funding was maintained. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so in the case of greece, from 370 000 hectares with 594 euros per hectare, we went up to 270 000 hectares with 750 euros per hectare. but if we grow more than 270 000 hectares, if we go up to 370 000 hectares, which no one forbids us to do, no one comes to tell us - as in the past - that there is a ceiling or a penalty, so there is no prohibition. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would ask you to take the floor and clarify that. i would ask you to read the report and you will see that it is absolutely correct. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. please read the report to find out.
mr president, i think that the subject we are discussing today is of great interest, particularly because for once the european parliament - i would say - is showing the way on a matter which has not been discussed at all in our national parliaments and certainly in the greek one, and for which there is no solution. there are three major political problems involved in this matter: the first is how do we approach the issue? are we afraid of this function of informal groups, the lobbies, or are we trying to operate transparently? i think that's what we should do. we need to be transparent, not afraid of lobbies, of their existence, and to have rules. secondly, how is transparency best served? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, we are talking about informal groups, but in an institutional process. it is crucial to distinguish between lobbies. greenpeace is one thing, schell is another, when they act as lobbyists. it is therefore crucial that this distinction be made at least within the register.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commission and commissioner figel for the initiative they took in drawing up the white paper on sport and the pierre de coubertin action plan, which are the first attempt by the european union to approach sport issues. i also thank commissioner špidla for being here today in place of mr figel who is away on a trip outside europe. i would also like to thank my colleagues from the committee on culture and the committees on economic affairs, employment, internal market, legal affairs, liberties, regional development and women for their excellent cooperation in drafting the report on the white paper on sport. the main points of the white paper in the european parliament's report were covered by 16 compromise amendments agreed jointly with all the political groups in the committee on culture and by 426 amendments tabled both in the basic committee and in the other seven which gave their opinions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of these substances in the manufacture of certain products. in its white paper, the european parliament calls for measures to be taken to avoid burdensome programmes for athletes which force them to resort to the use of substances not only to increase their performance but also to enhance their physical endurance. in addition, internal and external independent audits in professional associations and sports organisations, and training of athletes on the side effects of doping, can help to reduce the phenomenon. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the first concerns sports betting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the sport sector, and that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the sport sector. the white paper therefore calls on the member states and the commission to adopt arrangements to ensure the protection of amateur and professional sports from any abusive influences associated with and related to betting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the betting market are applied in a fair and transparent manner, and that the rules on the protection of the betting market are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the second issue concerns the sale of media rights. as we all know, the 27 member states of the european union have different systems for selling the television rights to major sporting events, in particular european football matches, the champions league and the uefa cup. the rights are sold either individually or collectively. however, they are the main source of revenue for professional sport in europe and conversely, the rights to sporting events are a key source of content and revenue for many media owners. the report of the parliament also recognises the importance of a fair redistribution of revenues between sports associations, even the smallest ones, between professional and amateur sports. the collective sale of media rights, which the commission presents as being incompatible with competition law, is therefore important for the redistribution of revenues and can thus be a means of achieving greater solidarity between sports. we therefore ask the commission to recognise collective selling and to give legal assurance that it is a practice of solidarity for small associations. finally, as we have already said in mr belet's report on professional football, uefa and fifa should agree and cooperate with the commission's bodies so that football is accepted by the citizens and the member states of the european union without losing its autonomy and without exceeding the powers deriving from their statutes. it is important for both of these federations to accept in their statutes the right to appeal to the ordinary courts, without, of course, ignoring the principle of self-regulation and the structures of the european sports model governing the organization of sports competitions. in conclusion, i would like to recall the satisfaction of all with the official recognition of sport in the new reform treaty of lisbon by the member states. we are of course aware of and respect the specific nature of sport; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in sport is a very good one, but it is very positive - for the member states and for sport in general - that the european union will now be able to complement and promote a european policy in this field.
mr president, sport is one of the passions of my life - both as an athlete and as a spectator - and i should also mention that my colleague and friend mr black-eyed man and i have been writing for the same sports newspaper for many years! but i cannot say that i am optimistic after our discussion today, because whatever we do, however much we try to put these things in order, the facts themselves show that the picture is very bleak. doping hits every day and we even have deaths. the commercialisation of sport has reached its highest point. the success of sport has led to its gigantism and therefore to corruption. television enforces its law on sports. i think that a symbolic gesture is very important. given the problems with the olympics, i think we should consider whether they should return to greece permanently.
member of the commission. - since the vote will begin in a few minutes, i have no opportunity to make a larger statement. but i would still like to make a few points and answer a few questions. the debate, in my opinion, has made it clear how complex sport is in modern society. the second point i would like to make is that after the vote on the draft report by the rapporteur, we will have a very solid basis for a coherent european policy on sport. a database based on the white paper and the parliament's report. the debate naturally raised a number of ideas which will need to be developed and managed in the coming period. i would like to highlight only those that i have recorded and which i consider to be particularly important. one of the problems that the white paper is about, after all, is educating athletes, especially young athletes, to avoid what's been described, which is that at the time they leave their careers, they don't have a long-term future that's well-established. it is equally important to address the issue of trafficking or the risk of trafficking in human beings in some cases in the field of sport. the commission must also pay attention to intellectual property, especially in the area of the internet, which it does, after all, and since i see that the atmosphere is not really suitable for long speeches, i will answer the questions that have been asked rather quickly. the first was the question of guidelines. the commission considers that the situation is not yet ripe for the formulation of such guidelines, but nevertheless considers it necessary to address this problem. another issue i would like to mention is the very often cited lottery issue. i would point out that lotteries are outside the services directive and therefore subject to community law and that decisions must be sought on a case-by-case basis. another important issue was the collective sale of television broadcasting rights. the commission assumes that a solution will always be found, which will include a substantial element of solidarity, as mentioned. i think i've covered most of the questions that have been asked very quickly. otherwise, of course, it is just one, albeit very important, step taken jointly by the commission and parliament.
the rapporteur. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. in total, 520 amendments were tabled in the eight committees. i tried to find compromise solutions for the most part and that came true. the fact that these amendments - from eight committees - were tabled and voted for by the majority shows the importance of this report and the interest of the text which will be incorporated into the reform treaty. it is an important first step for sport and for the european union. we can do a lot with the cooperation and help of all of us.
madam president, in a sensitive product which is of particular importance to greek agricultural production, a reform would be expected, even under the pressure of the european court of justice's decisions, to guarantee the new cotton pdo by 2013, based on the principles of the cap philosophy of single payment, financial security of community resources in the national portfolio of each country and flexibility for member states to manage the national portfolio. the aim should be to achieve the maximum possible area aid under budgetary neutrality, but also to provide direct aid to producers who improve the quality of their products. but that was not achieved. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. restructuring to compensate for losses suffered by the cotton-growing enterprises in the event of a reduction in production or a disruption of the cotton market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. i voted against the glavacchi report, as did my political group, because, despite the limited positive amendments to the commission's original proposal, the overall balance is negative. greater support for cotton producers is needed, without further reducing production, while taking effective measures to protect the environment and promote sustainable rural development.
in writing. the report on so-called 'interest groups', the so-called 'lobbies', is an openly cynical admission of the deeply reactionary role of the european parliament and the eu as a whole and the class interests it serves. the european parliament has for years now officially legitimized the right of representatives of monopoly groups to move freely within the european parliament, to lobby, to buy, to impose the legislative interventions that safeguard and multiply their profits. the report, under the pretext of transparency, attempts to exaggerate the direct intervention of the monopolies. the 'lobby' includes trade unions, professional and mass organizations. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's opinion is not distorted by the council's decision. the only problem is that they find the doors of parliament wide open, while the workers are not even allowed to go near it. the workers must not have illusions. the european parliament and its members are not independent. they have been elected under programmes which express the interests of the class and represent them in the european parliament. for the workers, the way to serve their own interests is to overturn the political relationships, to weaken the parties of capital, to resist and to confront the eu that serves it.
in writing. the report, like the commission's white paper, treats sport as another area of business activity for big business. the eu is promoting the total commodification of sport, an area of even greater profitability for sports business groups and multinationals, which is why the lisbon treaty extends its powers to sport. it is an organized dismantling of amateur, even school sports and their use as a source of raw materials for the sports industry and commercialized sports. the people and the young are treated as spectators in the sports events organised by the business federations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. i 'm not . corruption, doping, fanaticism and intolerance are integral parts of commercialized sport, used to promote the products of the corporations that control it. the needs of young people for sport and physical education can only be met by creating infrastructure and developing mass popular sport, which cultivates the values of collectivity, solidarity, in contrast to this corrupt model of sport generated by the capitalist system, which subordinates everything to the logic of profit.
mr president, i would like to refer to the very critical and very worrying situation in lebanon. we have seen in our parliament and discussed many times the consequences of a prolonged crisis from the interference with the functioning of the institutions, the inability to elect a president of the republic, the economic crisis due to the occupations of the commercial and administrative centre, the fear of terrorist attacks, the lack of a political will to act, the lack of a political will to act, the lack of a political will to act, the lack of a political will to act, the lack of a political will to act, the lack of a political will to act. this situation culminated in the violence of all kinds that hezbollah unleashed in response to the government decision that affected the operation of its own uncontrolled telecommunications network. i would like to remind you, mr president, that a difficult attempt at national reconciliation is under way in qatar. we must also do everything we can to encourage this national dialogue, which must be conducted in the light of the general interest and concern of the lebanese people for prosperity, security and national independence. let us make full use of the possibilities offered by the association agreement with this country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, last summer greece suffered one of the greatest disasters in its recent history. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's other mediterranean countries, such as spain and italy, as well as portugal, have suffered similar disasters in recent years. the crime of forest fires, to the extent that they endanger human lives and the natural wealth of a region, is undoubtedly one of the most serious and heinous crimes of our time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law, whatever its final outcome - that is to say, the outcome of the relevant legal proceedings, which will be more due to differences of a legal nature and less to matters of substance - is moving in the right direction and will be a cutting-edge tool for more effective protection of the environment in the coming years. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr nassauer, for the sensitivity he has shown in adopting a compromise amendment to include the act of arson as a criminal offence. i would also like to thank the members of the spanish delegation of the european people's party who supported my amendment.
mr president, i think we are off to a very good start with parliament's budget for 2009. it is a realistic principle and a political one, because we must not forget that 2009 is an election year. i believe that there are three qualitative features of this plan we are discussing today which allow us to speak of a good start. firstly, there is discipline, because contrary to what we hear from the eurosceptics, the european parliament has for the third year in a row remained below the 20% threshold for administrative expenditure, thus proving, contrary to what extreme voices in europe say, that this is a parliament that works with discipline and logic. the second qualitative element is that for the first time human resources reflect the increased needs we will have for co-decision under the new treaty. so we have a transparent, clear organogram. and the third is building policy. i think we should be generous here. when we talk about reducing, we must know that safety has no cost, no price. so we have to be generous and smart so that we all - ourselves and our colleagues in the services - work in an environment that ensures health in the workplace. of course, that's a start. we're not ready yet. we'll have the first reading in the fall. i believe that the very good cooperation between the committee on budgets and the bureau on these matters must continue and we expect the bureau to be in direct and immediate contact with us so that the next stages of the first and second readings are really on solid ground.
madam president, access to raw materials is indeed vital for the european economy and competitiveness, given that the european union is heavily dependent on imports of raw materials from third countries. addressing barriers to third countries' access to the union's raw materials markets should be a priority in the context of both the ongoing negotiations at the world trade organisation and the ongoing negotiations of bilateral free trade agreements. finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there should be mechanisms to support and transfer know-how to developing countries in the sustainable and transparent management of the exploitation of raw materials and natural resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. what is needed today is a comprehensive strategy to ensure access to world markets while at the same time ensuring international cooperation, fair competition and fair trade, respect for the constraints of sound development incentives in the least developed countries, and the promotion of investment in research and development of environmentally friendly technologies and recycling. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the poorest countries in the world are not left behind.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, i am glad to have the commissioner here today because i believe she is a very fair man and i will explain why i say that. first of all, i would like to point out to my colleague from the committee on budgets that we are against smoking and we want to see a major campaign to get people to stop smoking. it is simply that if the world continues to smoke and we therefore need tobacco, we do not need to import it from third countries. let's make them in europe. i would like to congratulate and agree with mr berlato on his report. i would ask that the community tobacco fund be continued. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tobacco industry is not left behind. we were very happy to accept it. but we ask you to continue the smoking regime until 2013. the commissioner is a very fair man. why is this distinction made only between tobacco producers? we therefore call for this to be abolished and for the current regime to continue until 2013. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco production in the community, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat this problem. so if we stop this regime, if we stop the aid, the result will be that both areas will be desertified and ecological degradation will be brought to the regions. i therefore ask that the system be continued, as mr berlato's report says, and as mr berlato's amendments and my own amendments say. i am not sure that the commissioner is a fair man, but i think we can take you on board in this proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco advertising, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat tobacco advertising. this means that tobacco produced in the european union is considered unhealthy, but imported tobacco is not. this is contradictory, unscientific, unfair. the results of this policy are well known. despite the campaigns, smokers are increasing. however, production in the european union is falling sharply. jobs are being lost, tens of thousands of small and medium-sized tobacco farmers are being wiped out, but tobacco imports are increasing to over 1.2 billion euros a year. in greece, tobacco production fell by 73%. tobacco growers are on the road to unemployment. areas are becoming deserted because there is no alternative crop on their land. we consider it necessary to abolish the provision transferring 50% of direct payments to the second pillar from 2010. to stop -in the meantime- all deductions from subsidies to continue tobacco growing, since 70% is covered by imports. to link subsidies to production and to make them an integral part of the minimum guaranteed prices corresponding to the production costs of each variety. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
mr president, i commend my colleagues for speaking so sensitively against smoking and i believe that we are all against smoking, but, dear friends, i would point out the difference: smoking is one thing and tobacco growing is another. to give as much money as we can, to speak as much as we can and to do as much as we can to convince our colleagues and fellow citizens not to smoke. but, since they smoke anyway, i can't see why we have to import the tobacco and not grow it here. and i would also like to appeal to your environmental sensitivity. tobacco farming is a low-water, low-fertilizer, low-pesticide crop on barren land by poor farmers. i am sure that your ecological and human sensibilities, even those of you who speak against smoking and link smoking to tobacco growing, will change your mind. because if we have that mentality, we'll confuse the famous wine-making with alcoholism. because there is alcoholism, we stop making wine?
mr president, the peace programme has demonstrated its contribution towards peaceful coexistence and reconciliation of the different communities in northern ireland. in view of our support for the continuation of this programme in ireland, let me stress the following: the programme is a shining example and good practice that can and should be applied in other regions of the european union, such as cyprus. the methodology of the peace programme, and in particular its management by local partnerships and ngos, the development of inter-community projects, the facilitation of access to funding for projects or groups which could not receive funding from other community or national sources, is a valuable experience which paves the way for the methodology and approach which should be followed more widely in the bottom-up approach of structural fund programmes and, in particular, in programmes aimed at local development and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
mr president, commissioner, although apparently mrs sudre's report cannot touch on a large number of european countries, since few have such extremely remote regions as, among others, the azores, madeira and others, i was nevertheless interested in her approach. i have found that the report can inspire a similar policy for countries with island regions - and moreover multi-island regions - as well as mountain regions - such as my own country, greece. these are areas whose geocultural character is both a unique asset and a disadvantage. i therefore congratulate mrs sudre on her work and also on the fact that she has given me an opportunity to make some suggestions on the above-mentioned areas. i therefore propose that measures be taken to exploit the geocultural characteristics of islands and mountain areas in terms of a development strategy to preserve and strengthen the principle of territorial cohesion and the development of a system of statistical indicators to better assess the differences between island and mainland countries. more flexibility in the application of european and state aid policies to productive activities taking place on islands, for equal access to the internal market and the establishment of an operating aid scheme on islands, for the impact of climate change on islands and in particular the aggravation of existing problems such as water scarcity, to facilitate transport links between islands and mountainous areas and the mainland. finally, particular priority should be given to energy security on the islands, through the development and implementation of energy production projects using new technologies and renewable energy sources, as well as the development of broadband and the strengthening and ensuring the sustainability of island and mountain tourism. i would like to congratulate mrs sudre on this, and i express my full support for the report, and i believe that the commission will one day produce a similar report on the areas i have mentioned.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. one service is concerned with advising, informing and guiding young people and all workers of all ages so that they can find the job, study and lifelong learning that suits them. the other service which should be strengthened at european level in the context of decent work is that of labour inspection. the labour inspectorates will be able to combat undeclared work, which is a scourge of employment. so employment, but also entrepreneurship, cooperation with the social partners may be the hope until 2010.
madam president, the commission communication on the shipping policy of the european union is intended to ensure the profitability of shipowners and the monopoly groups operating in this sector. the proposals for the common maritime policy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. secondly, shipping policy is seen as a whole including transport and related sectors. third, sweeping changes are being implemented in education and labor relations to replace labor with cheaper labor. it intensifies work and thus increases the risks to human life and the environment. fourthly, it sells out the ports to the monopoly business groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and it is not the commission's intention to do so. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission will be able to take part in it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of a new fishing fleet.
mr president, as the pasok group we voted in favour of mr berlato's report because we believe that the information of citizens on health matters and in particular on issues relating to tobacco and tobacco products should continue. a similar policy should be pursued with self-financing funds for the provision of health information to citizens on other products such as meat and fats. we cannot imagine that in areas like greece, where tobacco production has been completely reduced, subsidies will not continue in their present form until 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the berlatt report, as did the left group, because it guarantees community subsidies for tobacco producers for an additional period, protecting them from unfavourable discrimination against producers of other agricultural products, for which subsidies continue. it is particularly important to make full use of the resources available to avoid abandonment of crops and the 'exit' of the rural population during this transitional period for tobacco.
in writing. the employment guidelines, which the eu is forming together with the centre-left and centre-right governments, under the applause of the political representatives of capital in the european parliament, promote the most brutal exploitation of the working class in order to achieve the goal of the lisbon strategy: the frantic growth of the profits of the plutocracy. the eu and government policy is centred on the infamous "ease of doing business", i.e. the complete dismantling of industrial relations. the eu uses unemployment as a means of terrorizing workers in order to abolish collective agreements, full and stable employment and replace them with individual employment contracts, the dominance of partial forms of employment with little or no labour, wage, social, insurance and pension rights. it seeks to deal a decisive blow to the public social protection, welfare, insurance and pension systems in all eu member states. in the 'working age' that the eu is preparing, the 'model' of the worker described in its employment guidelines is that of the 'employable', working under all possible forms of part-time employment, without rights, training and retraining in one-off skills, according to the needs of capital, constantly moving in search of work, working until old age or death, producing incredible wealth to be exploited and appropriated by the bourgeoisie.
vice-president of the commission. − well, of course this is a constant struggle to make sure that we can provide information – that we can provide interpretation and translation in all 23 official languages. sometimes we are not able to respond fully to that because we lack interpreters, for example, or we have not yet a full staff that can respond to this request, but i take note of your comment on that and we will look into it as well. i will also make a visit soon to lithuania and i am sure i will hear more about this, but this is not due to a lack of will from the commission. it is the starting point for any communication that you can communicate, hopefully, in your own language and understand what is being told, also in your own language. therefore, we will continue to endeavour to make sure we provide all the necessary resources for doing so; therefore i fully respect your question and i think it is a very serious one. well the other point was of course a comment and it is a fact that we have to start where citizens are. we have to respond to the questions they have, and of course the truth is that very rarely do they start by asking about the treaty provisions or an amendment. they start by asking, what do you do about immigration? what do you do about climate change? how do you fight the problems that we see as cross-border problems, and how do you deal with that? and this is how we have to respond, and in an everyday language. i think that what has actually helped – and this is something i take credit for – is that we have now started with these citizens’ summaries to all the proposals that we present. also in our work programme, we will have an accompanying citizens’ summary, and i see that this is very useful, and we have to continue along these lines.
vice-president of the commission. − i can say that plan d played a key role in testing new methods for civil society organisations to involve citizens from all walks of life in debates on the future of europe. it gave us examples of consultation that we never had before, inviting randomly-chosen citizens from all member states to sit down together and discuss the european union’s agenda. it was indeed a very exciting experience. one of the key lessons from this experience was that we need to strengthen the interface between citizens and eu decision-makers because, if we promise to listen better, what do we do with what we hear? this is what they want to know. we decided to prolong plan d in the period leading up to the european parliamentary elections in june next year. this new phase is called ‘debate europe’. we have allocated eur 7.2 million to debate europe, eur 2 million of which to cofinance transnational projects and eur 5.2 million to cofinance decentralised calls and actions supporting local projects administered by the representations. we do not decide in advance how much money is available per member state or which beneficiaries will run these pan-european consultation projects. this depends on the results of the calls for proposals which the commission is presently launching, both centrally and via our representations. we think that debate europe should also provide an effective framework for interinstitutional cooperation. one model was the concluding conference that was held on the first phase of plan d last december. here not only the parliament, the commission, but also the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee were involved. i think it proved complementary in addressing the specific citizens’ concerns and that this kind of cooperation should become the rule in the framework of debate europe, also at national or regional level. we also hope that we can engage members of the european parliament much more in these local and regional activities. i have just informed this group – the so-called ‘igi’ – about the request from this parliament to engage in a pilot information network. we have prepared and will present to the european parliament the outcome of our project very soon: preparing for such a network, joining national and european parliamentarians and we hope also inviting journalists to take part in the debate on european issues. i have already mentioned the public spheres, the european public spaces, in the pilot project. along these lines we can continue plan d, learn from the experience so far and engage with citizens on a number of projects and models that we hopefully can establish permanently – not only as something that runs for six months or so – and ensure that we can involve decision-makers with european citizens in these ways.
the problem for all of us, madam president, commissioner, is that europe is cut off from the ordinary world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would like to ask who will be the actors who will bring the citizen closer to europe, according to the debate europe project.
vice-president of the commission. − one of the new initiatives of course is that we need a european political culture, and that is what, as you know, we have presented. and this has been adopted by parliament as well to engage in political foundations which can contribute to the debate. this is because we need to have it in the regular political discussions at all levels: eu issues have to be integrated better. i think that this initiative, in allowing european political foundations, will help. i think we need to do it through the media, to have a european media reporting on eu affairs, and that is why we have a new internet strategy, we have a new audiovisual strategy, where we will be better equipped to put european issues in media reporting all over europe. and i think we have to provide the meeting places, the public spaces, and this is where we have some pilot projects to allow for that. these transnational projects where we have engaged in consultation with citizens can, i think, give us some useful lessons as well as some useful experience that hopefully we will be able to put in place permanently one day. but we have to use all these channels to be effective in not cutting off, but in engaging citizens: listening to them, explaining to them and advocating what we are doing at eu level.
madam president, before the 1992 programme, the internal market programme, there was the chechnya report on the cost of non-europe. does the european commission intend to draw up a specific communication on the costs of 'non-lisbon treaty'? what will be the cost to europe if the ratification of the lisbon treaty is not completed?
member of the commission. − that is correct. the european court of justice – and the honourable member has already felt the direction i am moving in – has ruled in the meca medina judgment that the compatibility of sporting rules with ec competition law cannot be assessed by way of declaring certain categories of rules a priori exempt from the application of ec competition law. the commission will therefore have to continue applying competition rules on a case-by case basis, referring to its adopted decisions and the existing case-law. finally, the meca medina judgment provides a clear methodological framework in that respect. in order to assess whether a rule breached eu competition rules, its effect must be proportionate to the legitimate genuine sporting interest pursued, so this proportionality test can only be applied on a case-by-case basis.
in all the member states, the national sports federations, particularly the football federations, in application of the statutes of the international sports federations, fifa, uefa, etc., strongly protest against any control of their actions by the governments. we recognize the self-government of the federations, but does the european union agree with the statutes which are being abolished and which it considers to be above the national laws and the constitution of the country?
member of the commission. − thank you for these very pertinent and important follow-up questions. the commission is working with croatia as it would with any other candidate country so that we follow the negotiating framework adopted in unanimity by the council and by the member states. it is our task and responsibility to monitor progress in meeting the benchmarks on the basis of our rather new benchmark methodology, which was created and adopted at the end of 2006 – with very strong support by parliament – in order to improve the quality of the eu accession process. this means that once a country is able to open one benchmark and then close the same benchmark it has proved that it has made sufficient progress in the issues concerned. i give you one very concrete example: that is the shipbuilding sector in croatia. we expect that croatia will provide a very concrete restructuring strategy for the whole sector, as well as for all the individual shipyards concerned in this sector. there was a meeting recently between the deputy prime minister of croatia and my colleague neelie kroes, the european commissioner for competition, to scrutinise the state of affairs in this regard. we are still waiting for somewhat more convincing efforts by the croatian authorities to show that croatia will be able to restructure its shipbuilding sector properly so that we can move forward in the field of competition policy where state aid is a very critical benchmark. this is to prove that it really is in the hands of the croatian government and the authorities to meet the benchmarks. we always knew that some of the benchmarks were more challenging than others and the commission has encouraged croatia to work diligently in order to meet these difficult benchmarks, especially in the area of judiciary reform that mr crowley referred to, as well as in the other area i mentioned, the shipbuilding sector. concerning judiciary reform, we are providing legal and technical assistance for croatia under the institution-building part of the instrument for pre-accession. we are encouraging twinning exercises and of course we provide our own expertise for croatia. member states are also providing their peer reviews which are important in order to benchmark whether or not croatia is making good progress in this field. so all in all, we are doing well overall in the negotiations. the pace of the negotiations essentially depends on the pace of these critical reforms in order for croatia to meet first the opening and then closing benchmarks.
member of the commission. − madam president, please allow me to clarify that on 5 march i did not attend a nato summit. i might have wanted to but i did not attend the nato summit as is mistakenly indicated in the question. instead, i took part in the meeting of the commission – our weekly meeting – and in that meeting we adopted a commission communication entitled, ‘the western balkans: enhancing the european perspective’. subsequently i made the statement at the press conference on this issue to which the honourable member is referring. in that context, in the press conference, i noted that the main issue was consuming much political energy. i encouraged the leaders of both countries to find a formula which is acceptable to both sides. i have done this publicly and privately. in reply to a question i explained that the decisions relating to the eu accession process are taken by member states on the basis of unanimity. in this context i expressed my concern that the lack of a solution to the main issue could have a negative effect on the country’s accession process. i can assure you that the commission will continue to call on the parties to engage constructively to resolve the main issue. however, the commission has no competences, no powers on such measures and therefore efforts should continue under the auspices of the united nations within the framework of the two important un executive council resolutions which date from the year 1993.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, which confirms the statement you made in brussels. that is what i said in my question at the press conference on 5 march. i would like to ask you, given that the european parliament recently adopted in a resolution on the accession prospects of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia the need to speed up the negotiations in order to reach a solution that is acceptable to all, whether, in cooperation with parliament and in the light of your responsibilities, you intend to take any action before your report is drawn up in the autumn?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying how proud i am of the work we have done in the european parliament on the report we are discussing. we are not just talking about new technologies here. we are talking about the important role played by a number of applications of new technologies, both in strengthening the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the european union and in transforming its economy into a knowledge-based economy. in particular, the message we are sending today, ladies and gentlemen, to the european citizens is that within seven years of the introduction of the mss systems, the last inhabitant of the most remote village in the union will be able to enjoy satellite and mobile terrestrial services, which means very fast internet connections, mobile television, satellite telephones, but above all public protection and relief from natural disasters. we have fought hard in the itre committee to ensure that certain regions are not excluded from these services, which would increase the digital divide between metropolitan centres and the periphery within each member state and, more generally, the digital divide between different regions of the european union. finally, i would like to congratulate and sincerely thank the rapporteur, mrs hall, and the shadow rapporteurs for the struggle they have had within parliament and with the council to get these very important conditions included in the final legislative text we are voting on tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, spectrum is a public good, so market mechanisms alone cannot ensure the information society for everyone. a combined policy and market approach is required. the allocation of spectrum should focus on its social, cultural and economic value and not only on increasing the revenues of mss operators or public government revenues. commissioner, i must admit that i was initially disappointed by the selection criteria for mss operators and in particular by the low quota of 60% of the union's geographical coverage, when we are talking about pan-european geographical coverage and pan-european provision of mobile satellite services. in countries with many mountains and islands, such as greece, it is difficult to invest in optical fibre everywhere, so providing mss becomes extremely important. the mss can make universal coverage of member states a reality in order to achieve sustainable economic growth in line with the objectives of the revised lisbon strategy. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hall, and the shadow rapporteur of my group, mrs trautmann, because with their contribution and their effective cooperation with the council we have come to a much improved proposal for a decision.
mr president, commissioner, mrs thomson's report touched on a sensitive aspect of my own history, because i obtained my doctorate at the sorbonne as the mother of three children already - and my husband the father of four - and then i was forced to exclude myself and to exclude myself from the environment of further research, and this because the thirst for research is like a germ that has been ingested and we feel very unhappy when we do not continue research. i must admit, however, that it was only much later, as the mother of several children, that i was given the opportunity by a german university which had a special programme for mothers to continue my research and to continue it voluntarily until now. we see that there are possibilities and that is why the family aspect should be integrated into the design of research programmes and research jobs, so that human resources are used. i believe that this will remove the need for binding targets and change the perception of women's contribution to research. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the opportunity should therefore be given for women researchers to participate in programmes at a later stage and the participation of women in research programmes should be a qualitative criterion for the evaluation of universities. i would also remind you of the report we presented last year, which states that students should be given the opportunity to combine work and family life.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, because without their cooperation and contribution i would not have been able to reach a satisfactory compromise with the council, which is generally accepted. the compromise text, if voted on as agreed with the council without amendments to invalidate this agreement, could be an important step towards implementing the community strategy on mercury. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mercury is not used in the production of other products, such as cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, and other products, which are not only those which are intended for the benefit of the consumer. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is a major exporter of mercury, supplying about 1000 tonnes of the current total world supply of 3,600 tonnes per year. the proposal for a regulation under discussion concerns mainly 12 000 tonnes of mercury which will become surplus in the coming years and paves the way for further action at international level. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the mercury is not used in the production of other products. the regulation will make a significant contribution to strengthening the european union's leadership in the talks under the auspices of the united nations environment programme and for the adoption of a world mercury treaty. the main provisions of the settlement are as follows: the scope of the export ban is extended to cover not only metallic mercury but also quinobarbite, mercury chloride and mercury oxide and mixtures containing more than 95% by weight of mercury. an explicit prohibition on mixing of mineral mercury with other substances for the purpose of exporting mineral mercury was added. the ban on exports of mercury and certain mercury compounds was accelerated. companies active in the chlorinated alkali and gas cleaning sectors were required to notify the commission and to make public information on the quantities of mercury stored or sent for disposal. a review clause was included, requiring the commission to review the situation and report to the european parliament and the council, proposing additional measures no later than 15 march 2013. it was agreed to organise an exchange of information by 1 january 2010 to examine the export ban on mercury-containing products. finally, under the agreed text, mercury which is no longer used in the chlorinated alkaline industry or produced in other industrial processes will be regarded as waste and safely stored. in addition, we have succeeded in adopting, before the mercury is finally disposed of, acceptance criteria for metallic mercury which will take account of the investigation as regards its solidification. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the compromise text we have reached with the council is important and that if it is adopted without amendments, which will bring us back to the starting point and lead to significant delays in measures to protect the environment and public health, i believe that we are taking a step - tomorrow with the vote - towards ensuring a satisfactory level of protection of public health and the environment.
member of the commission. - the mr president, honourable members, under the agreed text, mercury that is no longer used in the chlorinated alkaline industry or produced in other industrial processes will be considered as waste and safely stored once the export ban comes into force, i.e. on 15 march 2011. by 1 january 2010 at the latest, the commission shall organise an exchange of information between member states and other interested parties in order to examine the advisability of taking additional measures. by 1 january 2010 at the latest, the commission shall, on the basis of available scientific evidence and ongoing research activities on safe mercury disposal options, propose appropriate conditions for installations and acceptance criteria for metallic mercury. the member states will monitor the application of the regulation and its impact on the market and will inform the commission accordingly. if deemed appropriate, the commission may propose a revision of the regulation by 15 march 2013 at the latest. the proposed settlement package contains a number of key arrangements. the most important are: the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of export controls on mercury, which is to be applied to all mercury-containing products. the explicit prohibition on mixing mineral mercury with other substances for the purpose of exporting mineral mercury has been added. a revised timetable was agreed, which is indeed more demanding than the original proposal, while ensuring sufficient time to take appropriate action at each stage. an exception was made for mercury compounds used for research and development purposes and for medical or analytical purposes. companies active in the chlorinated alkaline and gas cleaning sectors are required to notify the commission and to make public information on the quantities of mercury stored or sent for disposal. a review clause establishes an obligation for the commission to review the situation and report to the european parliament and the council, proposing additional measures if deemed appropriate, by 15 march 2013 at the latest. the commission is able to assure parliament that the implementation of the regulation will be closely monitored and any further measures required will be proposed in good time. at the same time, the commission is implementing the other actions of its mercury strategy and is actively negotiating international measures within the framework of the united nations environment programme. the adoption of this regulation, ahead of the discussions on international action scheduled for october 2008, will demonstrate the european union's commitment and strengthen its credibility among its partners in a timely manner. it is therefore necessary to agree to this compromise text. finally, mr president, the commission is able to accept all the proposed compromise amendments, as agreed in the trilogue, namely amendments nos 42 to 63. as i said earlier, it is obvious that the almaden area could be considered for the safe storage of mercury, provided that it meets the criteria to be set and that it has the necessary permits. the commission cannot, however, justify the proposed priority of a single region in amendments nos 37 to 41 and therefore cannot accept them.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i would once again like to warmly thank the rapporteurs of all the political groups, who without their effective cooperation with us at every stage of this long-term effort and at every stage of the effective dialogue that has resulted from the debate and the tripartite dialogue, we could not have reached this satisfactory compromise that has emerged. the council's initial position, ladies and gentlemen, included only one of the european parliament's amendments. the compromise we have before us means that important positions adopted by the european parliament at first reading are included in the agreement with the council, with the constructive contribution of the commission. this conquest must be secured. i understand the concerns and requests of the spanish colleagues on almadén and i would remind you that we adopted this wording at first reading on my own initiative. but we must face reality. neither the council nor the commission endorses this proposal. the spanish government has not even made such a request in the council. if the european parliament is tomorrow more royal than the king on the almedina issue, we risk cancelling a major success of parliament and a satisfactory compromise, delaying the adoption of measures for public health and the environment - as the mandate of the present european parliament expires in one year - and we run the great risk of the council returning to the starting point, a position it had initially and which is very far from the position we adopted at first reading. i therefore call on you to vote tomorrow on this agreement and i thank the shadow rapporteurs, the council and commission representatives, once again for the joint effort we have made to reach this agreement.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr florenz on his report, and it is extremely positive that the report is based on the scientific conclusions of the relevant united nations committee and that it highlights the need for better and more information for the public. but it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, and mr de maij-weggen, to go from the facts to the facts. we need to adapt our policies to the measures that science suggests. we need cleaner fuels, we need cleaner cars. we know the battle you are waging, commissioner - and within the commission - against lobbies and interests that are undermining the european union's effort to be at the global forefront in the fight against climate change. the european parliament, in its large majority, is in favour of a more ambitious effort by the commission and the governments, because human life and the protection of the environment are weighing much more heavily on the scales than the interests of certain business circles.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to start by welcoming the interim report on the scientific evidence on climate change, particularly because it highlights the convergence of scientific opinions on the existence of the phenomenon of climate change and the important contribution of the human factor, and in particular of the choices made by the individual, to the phenomenon. the ipcc fourth assessment report states that global carbon dioxide emissions increased by about 80% between 1970 and 2004 and that these increases are mainly due to the use of fossil fuels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
the chairman of the council. − first of all, i would like to thank mrs ria oomen-ruijten for her report, which the council considers to be an important contribution to the debate on turkey's accession process. the slovene presidency is committed to further progress by turkey in its process of rapprochement with the european union. the council is currently discussing the remaining eight legislative harmonisation review reports, the so-called 'screening' reports. if technical preparations are well advanced, we may be able to open two new chapters at the eu-turkey accession conference in june. as regards reform in turkey, we agree with parliament's assessment that this year is a decisive year for this process and we believe that turkey should not miss this opportunity. the revised accession partnership, adopted in february this year, identifies key priority areas where the country should accelerate reforms. the actual progress of these reforms will of course have a direct impact on the further course of the negotiation process. i would also like to stress that we share parliament's concern about the initiation of proceedings against the justice and development party (akp). the presidency issued a statement stressing that the separation of powers between the executive and the judiciary is a fundamental principle of all democratic societies and that this principle must be respected. we'll be watching closely for any developments. we hope that the outcome of this process will be in line with democratic standards and the rule of law, and we also hope that this process will not put a stop to the process of necessary reforms. let me mention below some aspects of ensuring fundamental freedoms and respect for human rights. these are areas where reforms in the country are of particular importance. on freedom of expression, we welcome the amendments to article 301 of the criminal code. this is a step in the right direction, but the effective guarantee of freedom of expression will require that this article is also properly implemented. in addition, certain other provisions should also be brought into line with european standards. as regards freedom of religion, we welcome the adoption of the foundations law, which is also a step in the right direction. at the same time, we stress that efforts to ensure religious pluralism in line with european standards will also have to be continued in this area. as regards civil-military relations, the outcome of last year's constitutional crisis confirmed the crucial importance of the democratic process. but military forces still wield considerable political influence. in this regard, it is necessary to strengthen civilian democratic control over the military and to further strengthen parliament's control over defence spending. in view of the situation in the south-east of the country, we strongly condemn the terrorist attacks and express our solidarity with the turkish people. we support turkey's efforts to protect its population and fight terrorism. we stress, however, that this must be done in full respect of the provisions of international law and of the efforts to maintain peace and stability in the wider region. as is well known, the european union assesses turkey's progress on the basis of its compliance with the copenhagen political criteria and the provisions of the negotiating framework for turkey. the council will also assess progress in the light of the implementation of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement. in this respect, we regret that turkey has not yet fulfilled these obligations and that there has been no progress towards the normalisation of relations with the republic of cyprus. however, efforts to promote good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the charter of the united nations are undoubtedly important aspects for progress in accession negotiations. thank you so much.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first thank mrs oomen-ruijten and the foreign affairs committee for a very solid, firm and balanced report. in the accession negotiations with turkey six chapters have been opened so far and, as mr lenarčič said, it should be possible to open two more chapters during the slovenian presidency, namely company law and intellectual property. let me recall in this context one simple but absolutely fundamental guiding principle of the eu enlargement policy, which applies to every candidate country, including turkey: the pace of negotiations depends on the progress made in legal and democratic reforms – and especially on their implementation. in other words, the technical talks on chapters make up the walls and rooms of the house – maybe even the roof one day – while the legal and democratic reforms constitute the very foundations of any new eu member’s construction. and, as every builder knows, one must first make very solid foundations before moving on to putting the walls together. so, first the reforms, then progress in the technical negotiations. that is why i find mrs oomen-ruijten’s report so pertinent. the commission shares her views on the slow pace of the reforms. yet certain legislative reforms have taken place. i note that you welcome the new law on foundations, and at your request the commission will report on this law and its implementation in our next progress report on turkey in the coming autumn. moreover, the recent revision of the infamous article 301 is a step forward. what ultimately counts, however, is its proper implementation to guarantee the freedom of expression for everybody in turkey. in addition to the fundamental freedoms of expression and religion, further progress is essential in such areas as cultural and linguistic rights, the rights of women and children, and the rights of trade unions. all in all, a renewed focus on eu-related reforms is absolutely essential, which should also assist in overcoming the current political crisis. this is the message president barroso conveyed during our recent visit to turkey. both government and opposition parties should engage in dialogue and search for compromise on the sensitive issues dominating the domestic debate, including the constitutional reform process. both secularism and democracy need to be defended in this context. i regret that the law on the ombudsman has been blocked for two years by the constitutional court. i welcome the fact that you urge it to be unblocked, so as to set up the ombudsman’s office without delay. we all know how important the ombudsman’s function has been in keeping authorities accountable and enhancing citizens’ rights in the eu member states. the essence of these reforms is to ensure turkey’s transformation into an open and modern society, with full respect for freedom and democracy, diversity and tolerance – that is, for democratic secularism. the very existence of our union rests on the basic values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights that we share among ourselves. they are the basis of the family spirit and the contract of marriage, as jacques delors put it, to which we europeans have committed ourselves. the negotiating framework with turkey spells out these values, and it is the commission’s duty to monitor them. the commission’s role in the accession process can be described as ‘the friend who tells the truth’ – even if the truth is sometimes unwelcome in parts of the eu or in turkey. thus we cannot be indifferent to what is happening in candidate countries, least of all to events that affect our shared democratic values. i note your concern about the implications of the akp closure case. certainly, the ruling of the constitutional court should be compatible with democratic principles and the rule of law, including the guidelines of the venice commission of the council of europe. we want to see turkey move on from this case by respecting european values. turkey cannot afford another wasted year on reforms and we need to see progression, not regression, in meeting democratic principles. let me wind up with a few words on cyprus. now it is time for the leaders of the two communities to end the deadlock and move towards reunification of the island. i trust turkey will fully contribute to a solution. the commission endorses a renewed un process and will fully support both communities on the island to make the necessary difficult compromises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs oomen on both her report and her cooperation throughout this period. the report sends a clear message to turkey that the european path and its eventual entry into the european family passes through: first, the continuation and deepening of reforms in all its sectors and structures. secondly, full and absolute respect for human rights and the rights of minorities. thirdly, the withdrawal of turkish troops from cyprus and the contribution to a just and lasting solution to the cyprus problem. it is time for all of us to support president christophersen's initiatives in this direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i mean, stop the violations of the fir, stop the provocations of all kinds. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, i have read with great interest and respect the report by mrs oomen-ruijten and i congratulate her. i have tried to include it in the events of today, but i cannot, because we are facing developments in turkey which do not allow us to see what the future of this country of asian origin will be. turkey has tried to reform in the past. let us not forget the reforms of tanzimat, let us not forget the reforms of abdul hamid, of hata humayun, for hundreds of years he has tried to reform and he has not reformed. we are facing a huge danger. the decision of the constitutional court. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the union must honour its commitments. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish government is committed to the development of the turkish economy. however, little progress has been made in the field of human rights in the last year. the abolition of the infamous article 301 and all the provisions that infringe freedom of expression remains the ultimate objective. the situation in south-east turkey also requires immediate action. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. violence cannot be answered with violence. in the same spirit, i believe that there should be a thorough investigation into the use of turkish soil by american planes in connection with the secret detentions of suspects at guantanamo. the aim must be to build a peaceful, democratic and stable society. in this context, we are particularly concerned about the latest developments in turkey concerning the consequences of the possible banning of the akp party. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again for the excellent cooperation we have had. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at first reading, as rapporteur, i too supported the amendments on almadén, but we are now faced with a reality. neither the council nor the commission accept these amendments. if they vote for it, we're back to square one. a year ago the council had accepted only one of the european parliament's amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you: we're going to sacrifice that achievement? yesterday, mr deimas was very clear. the commission does not accept amendments nos 37 and 41. in the council, not even the spanish government insisted on these amendments. i therefore call on you to reject these amendments, to ensure that the important steps towards protecting the environment and public health are taken by the agreement reached with the council and to adopt by a very large majority a satisfactory step towards banning mercury exports.
in writing. there are limits to hypocrisy. the european commission, rightly, because of the high toxicity and risks to public health, is proposing to ban the use of mercury and to create appropriate storage facilities. at the same time, however, it insists on promoting energy-saving fluorescent lamps, knowing that they contain at least 5 milligrams of mercury each, a particularly dangerous quantity when one considers the number of lamps in each dwelling or workplace. profit above all else. the investments and profits of monopolies must be protected even if they are proven to be at the expense of public health. the eu prohibits the use of mercury but allows companies to offer free lamps containing mercury to promote their sales. the responsibility for public health is given to the companies that are called upon to handle the collection of waste, when it is known that it will end up in landfills and garbage bins, creating a huge risk of contamination for society as a whole and not just for those who use it. the common position therefore allows them to be deposited with the sacu. in order to prevent reactions affecting sales, even basic measures are not taken to inform the public of the dangers of the discharge of the contents of the lamps into the environment.
in writing. the proposal for a directive paves the way for the imposition of a single eu criminal law in the member states. it uses environmental protection and worker concern about environmental problems to promote the establishment of a common eu criminal law, and in particular by abolishing the rule of unanimity of member states which has been in force in criminal matters until now. it thus constitutes the 'acquis' which gives the eu the right and the ability to adopt and impose criminal sanctions on any matter it deems necessary. it essentially restores relevant provisions of the 'euro-constitution' and applies its renamed version, the 'lisbon treaty', before it is even ratified and comes into force. this is a dangerous development to the detriment of the peoples. the eu's competence to adopt a single criminal code, even without unanimity among the member states, is a violation of one of the fundamental sovereign rights of states, namely to decide in principle which conduct constitutes a criminal offence and to determine the type and amount of the penalties. it imposes the primacy of community law over national legislation, including national constitutional provisions, in order to impose directly on the peoples of europe the will of european monopoly capital, the drastic restriction of individual rights and democratic freedoms of the peoples, the imposition of a new law on the european peoples, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, and the abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. we reject the report on access to road transport because it liberalises the community road transport market by allowing international carriers access to national transport. it thus gives up international and domestic road freight and passenger transport to monopoly companies, with disastrous consequences for small and medium-sized transport companies and especially for the workers and drivers who will be victims of even greater exploitation by the monopoly groups. the european parliament's proposal is even more reactionary than the commission's proposal, since it removes even the minimum restrictions proposed and calls for the full liberalisation of the international and domestic transport market. the possibility of unlimited loading and unloading within member states, of unlimited stays by means of transport and personnel in other member states after the mere international transport has been carried out, is intended to reduce labour costs, to circumvent the wage, labour and insurance rights of workers in international transport, to promote the concentration of activities in large multinationals which will uncontrollably damage the sector by degrading the quality of services. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century.
in writing. the interim report of the interim committee on climate change does not contain any new ideas, thoughts or recommendations for the protection of the environment that are useful to the people. insists on the eu's well-known anti-people policy to ensure 'green' outlets to capital over-accumulation and limits itself to reproducing the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change it considers it a 'strategic objective' of the eu to limit the temperature rise to 2 ̊c, while acknowledging that 'such a level of temperature rise would have very serious consequences for society and the way of life of each of us'. it ignores the responsibilities of capital for the over-exploitation of natural resources and instead of calling for measures to limit the unfairness of monopolies, it fully embraces the propaganda of the multinationals that we are all to blame for the worsening of climate phenomena, stressing that lifestyle changes are required at the individual level. the agreements reached in kyoto, mali, etc. are proving ineffective because their central objective is not environmental protection but the protection of capital and its profits, the commodification of the environment and the development of a new profitable economic sector: the green economy. the solution to environmental problems will not come from the multinationals and monopolies responsible for the present situation, but from the people who bear the consequences.
in writing. the reports on turkey are always an expression of the eu's imperialist competitions and plans for the country. the report is at this stage choosing to support the turkish government, trying excessively to show progress in various areas, which is contrary to reality. the report's praise of democratic rights is typical, when the authoritarian, repressive policy of the turkish government is known, with the recent example of the savage repression of the may day protests. he's tolerating turkish policy against the kurds. he offers indirect support to turkish attacks on iraqi soil, on the one hand condemning the 'violent attacks' of the pkk and 'other terrorist groups', while on the other hand recommending that the turkish army simply not use 'disproportionate force'. it is painlessly overcoming the continuing turkish occupation of cyprus, while avoiding to demand categorically and unconditionally the withdrawal of turkish military forces. it welcomes turkey's active participation in the eu and nato imperialist missions and interventions. given turkey's position in the imperialist system and its competitors in the wider region, the eu seeks to use the accession process to its advantage, for the energy and geo-strategic control of the wider region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the chairman of the council. - thank you to mr carner gonzalez for this additional question. we can agree to this initiative. in fact, one of the areas specifically highlighted by the high representative solana in his report is the mediterranean. areas that may become more problematic due to climate change, including migratory pressures and the like. we can certainly expect that the protection of the climate and the environment in general will be one of the main themes of the barcelona process, which, as we know, is soon to be upgraded in terms of the proposals for the creation of a union for the mediterranean. i repeat, this will be an upgrade of the existing barcelona process. as you know, the european commission document which was presented recently and which also addresses these issues also makes it possible to start with the questions raised by the honourable member, although there are no concrete projects in it yet. but we can expect that this will certainly be one of the most important topics of our enhanced dialogue with the mediterranean countries.
the chairman of the council. - i am sure the honourable member is aware of the importance which the council attaches to the effective management of the external borders. with the free movement of persons within the european union, the proper protection and management of the external borders is essential to ensure the internal security of the member states, to combat effectively terrorism, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. the council has already taken a number of important steps in this direction. among other things, it has adopted legal instruments such as the schengen borders code, the external borders fund, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states, abbreviated frontex. it also took measures concerning the rapid border intervention teams. in this connection, i would also like to refer to the three communications sent by the commission on 13 february this year. these communications contain proposals and recommendations on the possible future of border management at european union level, on the future development of frontex, on the possible creation of a european border control system called eurosur and on an entry-exit system at external borders. the commission's proposals and recommendations contained in these communications were discussed at a ministerial conference in slovenia on 12 march. the justice and home affairs council is expected to adopt council decisions on the management of the external borders of the member states of the european union in june. these conclusions are expected to contain short- and long-term priorities for the further development of frontex, further recommendations on the european commission's work on the use of modern technology to ensure security and better management of the external borders and guidelines for further work on the establishment of the european border surveillance system eurosur. in addition, we are closely monitoring the activities of frontex, in particular the implementation of joint operations, the european network of coastal patrols, the further upgrading and use of the set of equipment from the central register, the so-called crate, and the possible deployment of rapid border intervention teams. the establishment of a maritime analytical and operational centre for narcotics last september was a major step forward in the field of border protection. it is a military-backed law enforcement centre set up by seven member states: the united kingdom, france, spain, ireland, the netherlands, italy and portugal. it is also available to all other member states. the centre aims to eradicate illicit trafficking in illicit drugs, which is carried by sea or air across the atlantic towards europe and the west african coast. this objective should be achieved by facilitating the collection, exchange and analysis of data and by making the best use of its members' maritime and air assets. the council's priorities also include strengthening border controls and gathering and exchanging intelligence on the route of drug trafficking.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much to the honourable mr higgins for this additional question. let me emphasize that the world is definitely concerned and will be concerned as long as the drug trade exists. as regards ireland, i would point out, as i have already said, that ireland is one of those countries which last september set up a maritime narcotics analysis and operations centre whose task is precisely to eradicate the illicit trafficking of illicit drugs which is taking place on this route, that is, either by sea or by air, across the atlantic towards europe or the west coast of africa. so, given the recent establishment of this centre, i expect that its functioning will be strengthened in the future and, of course, the presidency will encourage such development, or will encourage it with the levers at our disposal.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for that additional question, mr rack. i'd like to make a point. the enlargement of the schengen area did not happen automatically or by inertia or by itself. it was only after extensive preparations had been made in all the member states wishing to join the schengen area. it followed thorough evaluations of these preparations by the competent authorities and institutions of the european union. and it was only when it was established that adequate controls were in place at the future external borders of the enlarged schengen area that this enlargement could take place. i would like to stress this in particular, because we take seriously the concerns of the citizens, who must of course be told that there are no objective reasons for their concerns. i repeat, the enlargement of the schengen area did not happen by accident, it happened after thorough preparation and after thorough verification that all the technical and security conditions were met. and they have been met, so that today we can say that the security of the external borders of the enlarged schengen area is in good hands.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for this question, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou. employment and the fight against poverty and social exclusion are among the greatest challenges facing the european union and its member states. however, it should be stressed that both employment and social policy are the responsibility of the member states. the community supports and complements them in their activities. member states should therefore develop a policy mix that is most appropriate in the light of their economic, social and employment situation. let me mention some of the community measures in this field, which, as i have said, are intended to support and complement policies which are the responsibility of the member states. first, community law covers a considerable number of labour-related matters, including the free movement of workers, information and consultation, working conditions and anti-discrimination measures. secondly, tools such as employment guidelines, integrated recommendations and common principles on flexible security provide political guidance to member states in the design and implementation of their policies. thirdly, member states have also demonstrated a strong political commitment to exchange information and learn from each other within the framework of the open method of coordination. the open method of coordination has contributed to this by defining common indicators, promoting studies and peer reviews and strengthening cooperation at european union level. with regard to workers' rights and the improvement of working conditions, community law regulates, inter alia, the free movement of workers, information and consultation, working conditions, including working time, health and safety at work and anti-discrimination measures. these also concern measures to promote gender equality. i would point out that article 137 of the treaty states that the provisions of that article do not apply to salaries. this means that the european union does not have the power to intervene in the setting of minimum wages. it is also not empowered to coordinate minimum wages between member states. the open method of coordination referred to above encourages member states to ensure that appropriate minimum standards are in place. the decision on standards, i.e. the types and amounts of entitlements, is the exclusive domain of the member states. given the diversity of situations in the member states, we consider it unreasonable to impose a common standard. it should be borne in mind that in the european area, the area of the european union, many member states are faced with problems of public resources, debt and sustainability of social protection systems. therefore, the establishment or enforcement of uniform standards in these areas is questionable. all of this points to the need for member states to plan and address the situation in the area of minimum standards carefully and thus contribute to poverty eradication. the honourable member, mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, in her question, specifically highlights the poverty of children. children face poverty in households where parents are unemployed. in households with low work intensity, due to insufficient family income or in cases where income support is not sufficient to eradicate poverty. implementing balanced and integrated strategies and active inclusion strategies therefore contributes, at least indirectly, but significantly to promoting the well-being of children and young people. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, i should like to thank the council representative for his reply; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. decent work is an objective of both the world community - the united nations - through the international labour organisation and the european union. we have already voted on a resolution to that effect. how does the council intend to achieve these conditions of decent work and living for citizens, and especially children?
the agenda includes the debate on the report by bernard lehideux, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european training foundation (recast) (com (2007) 0443 c6-0243/2007 2007/0163 cod)) (a6-0131/2008).
member of the commission. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank and welcome the various speeches which have been made and which all support mr lehideux's report, which i of course also do, because i believe that this is really an important step forward. i can already see, and i can already imagine, the new perspectives - whatever one thinks - that are opening up for this body and i am therefore very pleased to consider that there will probably be a broad consensus on this proposal. i would like to answer two objections that have been raised. first, amendment no 10 on article 7: i would just like to remind mrs stauner that there is still a risk of a conflict of interest, since parliament is the authority which gives the discharge. i just want to make this point, at least in law, it's clearly a conflict of interest. secondly, i think it's good to have a separation of powers. i have been a member of parliament for a long time and i have never claimed responsibility for anything that was not the responsibility of a member of parliament. the fundamental role of a parliamentarian is not to govern, i am sorry to say. the fundamental role of a parliamentarian is to control and make laws, and then, of course, to control governments or the executive. so i don't understand this drift that some people seem to find normal. i speak in my own name, but this is a parliamentary debate; i believe that if parliament were to confuse its monitoring role with a role which is contrary to its role as a governing body, it would ultimately undermine its fundamental role. and that's how you kill a parliament. when a parliament wants to become a kind of government of assembly, i never thought that this corresponded to a high idea of democracy. i say this because the separation of powers is an important element. i am therefore convinced that the compromise reached will be the most effective, firstly, as regards parliament's independence in its monitoring role. i must admit that i am always a little surprised when i hear certain thoughts, but we are also here to say things. i heard - i think it was mr clark - i heard mr clark expressing concerns that the commission was going beyond its powers, and that the european training foundation might even be counterproductive. i must say that this is absolutely contrary to reality, experience and totally independent assessments of the remarkable work that this body is doing. i must say that as commissioner for development, mr lehideux, i can already see - thanks to the main amendment, which will probably be adopted - the prospects for efficiency, the positive prospects that can be set up, particularly - as has been suggested by several speakers - in the countries for which i am responsible and where vocational training is a fundamental element. i am thinking, for example, of the migration management and information centre in mali, which is a pilot project which we are about to launch. i can only imagine how useful the foundation's tool could be in this work. i can therefore only be happy about this and i do not accept the criticism that it is counterproductive. it is clear that we do not repeat ourselves: when we do not like europe, we say things that are excessive and this is obviously - allow me to say this with all the respect i owe to the member who spoke - excessive, so it is totally insignificant.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by johan van hecke, on behalf of the committee on development, on the follow-up to the 2005 paris declaration on the effectiveness of development aid (2008/2048 ((ini)) (a6-0171/2008).
, on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to propose a change to paragraph 1, adding the word ‘including’, to read as follows: ‘considers that any form of direct or indirect discrimination between european citizens including on the grounds of their nationality should be prohibited’.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on sudan and the international criminal court (see minutes).
member of the commission. - madam president, in 2004 the european union called on the united nations to set up a commission of inquiry into the atrocities and crimes committed in darfur. on the basis of the recommendations of the commission, the european union encouraged the un security council to refer the situation in darfur to the international criminal court, which the council did by adopting resolution 1593 in 2005. in recent months, the european union has repeatedly called on the government of sudan to cooperate unconditionally with the icc. on 31 march 2008, on the anniversary of the referral of the situation in darfur to the icc by the security council, the presidency of the european union issued a statement on behalf of the european union expressing its deep indignation at the lack of cooperation of the government of sudan with the court. the european union also expressed its willingness to support the adoption of further appropriate measures against those responsible for sudan's non-cooperation with the icc, if the sudanese government continues to fail to comply with the provisions of the un resolution. on may 6th, i attended the sudan consortium meeting of donors and the sudanese government in oslo. on that occasion i reminded my sudanese counterparts, and indeed the house, that our development aid is intended to support the development of sudan through genuine democratic transformation of the country as envisaged in the comprehensive peace agreement. i stressed that the principles governing the cpa must also apply to darfur and that there was an urgent need to restore security, deploy unmi and facilitate humanitarian access. the latest developments in abiye, whose complex issues represent one of the major challenges in the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement in sudan, underline the importance of fully implementing the cpa. i have just issued a press release calling on both sides to respect all the provisions of the agreement, including an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of the remaining armed groups from the city of abyei. the sudanese government should know that the international community as a whole will remain committed to the vision contained in the cpa of a peaceful, stable and democratic sudan that respects the rule of law and human rights. this message is not only addressed to the sudanese government, but must also be understood by the various armed and rebel movements whose political cause, whatever it may be, cannot justify the use of crimes. one of the court's arrest warrants concerns mr ali kushayb, a janjaweed militia leader. the un security council meeting on 5 june, which will be attended by the court's prosecutor, mr moreno-ocampo, could be an important opportunity for the international community to show unity and send a strong signal of support for the work of the court. the relex council at the end of june will more than likely deal with the matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on the detention of political dissidents in belarus.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the positive momentum that had been building up in belarus at the beginning of the year with the release of five of the six political prisoners seems to have been broken. unfortunately, the renewed pressure on civil society and a series of particularly heavy and disproportionate sentences have destroyed this positive atmosphere. we strongly condemn the political arrests and the way in which civil society and independent media are being treated. at the same time, we must make it clear to belarus that we are sincere in proposing a partnership on the condition that progress is made towards respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. but for that belarus must take certain steps which we consider essential. it calls for the unconditional release of all political prisoners, including alexander kozouline. it also concerns the parliamentary elections scheduled for next september, which will have to meet democratic criteria. in this regard, we call for unimpeded access for international observers from the osce/odihr. the belarusian authorities have informed us of their intention to invite short-term and long-term observers; we will certainly remind them of what they said. of course, the presence of european parliament observers would be an additional source of valuable expertise. it is also crucial that the opposition can participate in these elections in a fair manner. we will take parliament's suggestions into account in this respect. but the irrefutable proof of progress would be the presence of the opposition in this parliament, which is not the case today. then and in that case, the european union would be prepared to react positively, as it said as recently as last month in a statement on sanctions and progress that would prompt us to review those sanctions downwards. i now turn to what is most important to us: contacts with the people of belarus. regrettable as the situation in belarus is, we must develop our contacts. of course, the restrictions on ministerial contacts remain in place. nevertheless, i think we must distinguish between the political and the technical level. to this end, the commission is organising technical meetings in areas such as energy, transport and the environment with experts from the belarusian administration. these contacts are obviously a practical way of getting a number of messages across that are dear to us. the fact that we now have a delegation in minsk will also allow us to strengthen our links both with the belarusian administration and with civil society, local ngos, independent media and students, to whom we have a duty of assistance, as you very rightly pointed out in your report and as several speakers have mentioned. in addition, support for the european university of humanities in exile in vilnius will continue until the university is able to return to belarus. finally, i would like to mention a subject which has been raised many times: visas. you know as well as i do that we cannot, as things stand, open negotiations on visa facilitation with belarus, the council has decided that this is the case, but that will not prevent us from exploring all the room for manoeuvre left to member states within the framework of schengen under their consular prerogatives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on the growing tension in burundi.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the european union called for the resumption of dialogue between the parties - the only way forward towards reconciliation and peace - which is a fundamental expectation of the burundian people. the european commission therefore welcomes the return of a delegation from the palipehutu-fnl to bujumbura on 16 may and i hope that the dialogue will be able to resume actively. i prefer to leave the reply i had prepared because i have heard a number of comments and it seems to me that it is my duty to recall a number of facts. i will say that - to be brief and not to repeat the excellent speeches i have heard, particularly those of mr hutchinson, mr kaczmarek and mr bowis - first of all, what is happening in burundi today has nothing to do with the ethnic problem and to say that it is an ethnic crisis is to open up a new and extremely dangerous front. and so i quite share mr hutchinson's view, although i do regret a little that this debate is taking place here and now. it is a bit out of date, i think we should now give political dialogue a chance. and to speak as you have done, mr meijer, of an ethnic cause is an extremely dangerous approximation. secondly, mr hutchinson pointed to the following reality: the international community, the way we are, and this applies to the world bank - i spoke to bob zoellick about this - this applies to the commission, the way we are, with our procedures that prevent us, when a country is turning to formal democracy, from unlocking the means to show that there is a dividend to peace, is one of the reasons why burundi is struggling to get back on its feet, as is the case, for example, in liberia, as is the case in the drc, as is the case in the countries that are called post-conflict. we are stuck in our procedures, we have no flexibility and therefore we cannot respond quickly to the needs of state reconstruction, because in fact this is the real problem of burundi. i am of course leaving the intervention calling for european military forces - i am not saying that this is another debate - but it is obviously a debate that is a little outside the scope of this discussion. we continue to actively support burundi politically and financially in its efforts to consolidate peace and socioeconomic recovery. i would like to remind you that the amount of our cooperation for the period 2008-2013 now stands at eur 188 million and someone suggested that we should consider increasing this amount during the mid-term review. i should like to say that the rule is that we can only increase the funds if burundi has properly absorbed the entire first envelope. that is a rule and i hope he will be in a position to benefit from this mid-term review. the strategy agreed for this new period is to increase our budgetary support and to define two areas of concentration, namely rehabilitation and rural development, which is obviously important in order to ensure the survival of the population, and support for the health sector. our efforts to assist that country in its socioeconomic recovery are aimed at showing the people the results of the dividends of peace as a factor in improving their conditions. burundi has been chosen as a pilot country for the implementation of the november 2007 council conclusions, that has been said and i welcome it. we have also decided, with wfp, to carry out a pilot operation in burundi, particularly in relation to education and the provision of school canteens for children, because it is obvious that when we offer meals to children, there is a natural return to school. and we're going to do a pilot case as well, which includes burundi. i shall be visiting burundi shortly, because the commission is very much involved in all these mediation efforts. i should add that when i was foreign minister i participated directly in the negotiations in arusha with president mandela, so this is a subject i know quite well and i can tell you, mr meijer, that the burundian constitution, the burundian legislation, the burundian parliament and the burundian chambers offer absolutely all the institutional solutions to bring the ethnic problem under complete control. so it's not an ethnic issue, it's a matter of discomfort within one ethnic group, not with the other group, and it's obviously a different problem than the fnl which now has to come to the table, transform itself into a real political party and participate in the recovery and reconstruction of the state. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. they set out a series of priorities for 2008, aimed at upgrading the economic, political and military capabilities of european capital in the world to plunder peoples and countries, either on its own or, where this is not possible, in alliance with the united states of america and nato. in the first report, you give weight to the institutional framework as a pretext for waging wars and intervening, such as countering terrorism, allegedly protecting human rights and democracy, with the unacceptable and dangerous distinction between democratic and non-democratic nations that you make in paragraph 15 - who gave you, mr solana, the right to describe peoples as democratic and non-democratic? - and the use of the relatively new term 'human security' to provide a pretext for pre-emptive wars. the first report, and especially the second, calls for a greater militarization of the european union by giving a new impetus to combat formations, the creation of permanent european union military forces through the development of eurocorps and the mechanism of permanent structured cooperation, and the adaptation of the armed forces of the member states to the european union's offensive plans. follow nato's lead with the increase in equipment and military spending from the european union budget, the strengthening of eu-nato cooperation, the creation, in the context of military missions, of so-called civilian police and judicial forces, experts who actually prepare and manage european union military interventions. you celebrate the 17 military missions you've accomplished and ask for more. this is the european union you are building: of war, of aggression, of imperialism. that is why the way of the nations is resistance, disobedience, indiscipline.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me say something about the coming eu-us summit. i shall use my own language, if you will permit me. čeprav je odnos med evropsko unijo in združenimi državami amerike v svojem bistvu bilateralen, rezultati tega odnosa učinkujejo globalno. transatlantsko partnerstvo je že zdavnaj preseglo zgolj gospodarski vidik. evropska unija in združene države amerike tesno sodelujejo tako bilateralno kot tudi v okviru mednarodnih organizacij in pri reševanju odprtih, tudi najbolj žgočih regionalnih vprašanj, kot so afganistan, bližnji vzhod, zahodni balkan. kot v vsakem odnosu seveda tudi med evropsko unijo in združenimi državami amerike včasih obstajajo različni pogledi, vendar jih s konstruktivnim pristopom in medsebojnim razumevanjem uspešno rešujemo. evropska unija in združene države amerike sta dva pomembna, najpomembnejša sistema, ki bistveno vplivata na mednarodne odnose. med nami so razlike, vendar smo večinoma skupaj, zavezniki, prijatelji, imamo skupne mnoge enake vrednote, zgodovinsko povezanost, pravzaprav ves čas dvajsetega stoletja, in nazadnje smo bili skupaj, tesno skupaj, ob koncu hladne vojne ob širitvi evro-atlantskih povezav. glede na to, da evropska unija težje doseže soglasje kot zda, seveda odnosi niso preprosti. vendar tudi v združenih državah amerike ni vedno lahko doseči soglasja. če gledamo poročila iz predvolilne kampanje, vidimo, da se soglasje težko doseže celo v isti stranki. evropska unija je enotna glede raznolikosti, naj rečem, ponosni smo nanjo in to je tudi izhodišče lizbonske pogodbe, ki bo, upam, veljala od začetka prihodnjega leta naprej. v času našega predsedovanja svetu evropske unije slovenija veliko pozornosti namenja krepitvi transatlantskih odnosov, še posebej njihove strateške razsežnosti. naj spomnim, da smo izvedli že več pomembnih srečanj kot so srečanje trojke zunanjih ministrov evropske unije in zda, srečanje političnih direktorjev, zasedanje ministrov evropske unije in združenih držav amerike za pravosodje in notranje zadeve, v maju pa je v ljubljani potekalo tudi srečanje med evropskimi in ameriškimi zakonodajalci. najpomembnejši dogodek v okviru transatlantskih odnosov pa bo gotovo vrh evropska unija – zda, ki ga bo gostila slovenija 10. junija na brdu pri kranju. veseli me, da lahko povem, da dogodek pričakujemo primerno pripravljeni, veliko dela smo že opravili, na vrhu bomo imeli priložnosti tudi širši javnosti predstaviti pomen partnerstva med evropsko unijo in združenimi državami amerike in prikazati skupne vrednote, produktiven dialog, kompatibilne interese, ko se spopadamo s perečimi regionalnimi in globalnimi vprašanji. vrh bo razdeljen na štiri sklope, in sicer na srečanje voditeljev, na plenarno zasedanje in na kosilo, ki mu bo sledila tiskovna konferenca. voditelji bodo v ožjem krogu razpravljali o najbolj aktualnih regionalnih temah, kot so recimo bližnji vzhod, balkan, srednja azija in tako naprej, kavkaz, iran, ostala regionalna vprašanja pa bodo predmet razprave na plenarnem zasedanju ter na kosilu. pogovori se bodo dotaknili tudi globalnih tem kot so podnebne spremembe, energetika, pogajanja v okviru svetovne trgovinske organizacije, razvoj, zdravje, varnost, prost pretok trgovine in oseb. na plenarnem zasedanju bo tudi prvič na vrhu predstavljeno poročilo o delu transatlantskega ekonomskega sveta, ki je bil ustanovljen na vrhu evropska unija – združene države amerike leta 2007 v washingtonu, in v katerem ima tudi evropski parlament preko transatlantskega zakonodajnega dialoga pomembno vlogo kot svetovalno telo. poročilo o napredku z zasedanja transatlantskega ekonomskega sveta 13. maja v bruslju bosta predstavila sopredsedujoča daniel price, pomočnik predsednika združenih držav za mednarodne gospodarske zadeve, in evropski komisar za podjetništvo – tu navzoči podpredsednik evropske komisije günter verheugen. tiskovna konferenca, ki bo sledila pogovorom, bo pomemben del vrha, saj bo to priložnost za pozitivno sporočilo evropski in svetovni javnosti o napredku v transatlantskih odnosih ter načrtovanih skupnih projektih. dokument, ki bo sprejet na vrhu, je že predmet večmesečnih pogovorov med evropsko unijo in združenimi državami amerike. pripravljamo deklaracijo, v tej deklaraciji bo vključena celotna paleta transatlantskega sodelovanja, med drugim se bo dotaknila regionalnih vprašanj, globalne varnosti, transatlantskega gospodarskega partnerstva, svetovnih izzivov, vključno s podnebnimi spremembami in energetiko. naš namen, cilj predsedstva, je pripraviti kratek, jedrnat dokument z močnimi politični sporočili in upam, da nam bo to uspelo. tudi pri poglavju o podnebnih spremembah, kjer so stališča različna, smo našli, upam reči, kompromisno rešitev. predlagano kratko in stvarno besedilo o podnebnih spremembah ohranja najpomembnejše cilje evropske unije in hkrati upošteva tudi stališča združenih držav – ne bom ponavljal zadev, ki so temu parlamentu dobro znane. deklaracija se med državami članicami usklajuje na delovni skupini sveta evropske unije za transatlantske odnose – cotra – potek pogajanj pa je bil tudi predstavljen tudi na politično-varnostnem odboru psc 20. maja na zasedanju stalnih predstavnikov držav članic pri evropski uniji, na coreperju 21. maja ter na svetu za splošne in zunanje zadeve na gaerc-u prejšnji teden 26. maja. prizadevamo si za določitev datuma za podpis sporazuma o varnosti v letalskem prometu – usklajevanje je že v zaključni fazi – želimo si, da bi sporazum lahko podpisali vsaj do konca našega predsedovanja, se pravi do konca junija. potem podpiramo tudi čimprejšnjo vzpostavitev "odprtega neba", ki bo pomenilo nadaljevanje liberalizacije transatlantskega letalskega prometa in novo stopnjo v odnosu med evropsko unijo in združenimi državami amerike, kar bo v korist ljudi na obeh straneh atlantika. slovensko predsedstvo se zaveda, da nekatere države članice še vedno niso vključene v program visa waiver, ki omogoča potovanje v združene države amerike brez vizuma. tej temi smo namenili precej pozornosti v vseh stikih z združenimi državami amerike, enako tudi pri pripravah na vrh. slovensko predsedstvo je doseglo kompromis, da se države evropske unije dogovorijo bilateralno, razen, ko gre za zadeve, za katere je pristojna komisija. spoštovane poslanke, spoštovani poslanci, zagotavljam vam, da predsedujoča slovenija v pripravo vrhunskega srečanja vlaga veliko energije, zato sem prepričan, da bomo vrh v sloveniji lahko označili kot uspešno srečanje.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the european union is now an important and valued partner for many countries. in an increasingly multipolar world, we have established strategic partnerships with our key partners. but we are more connected to the united states than to any other strategic partner of the european union. we are united by a greater sense of responsibility for a more just world, in which all share in the prosperity and in which our security is politically, economically, socially, ecologically and also militarily secured. this partnership is ambitious and it's also exhausting. it demands that we europeans show more solidarity in the international arena, but it also demands that our american friends rethink their approach. it requires acceptance of the fact that leadership in the world must be shared. the situation calls for a public opinion which is not limited to pro-european or pro-american or anti-european or anti-american reflexes. what we need is a broad awareness that few things separate us, but many more connect us. a number of important issues will be discussed at the summit. in the field of foreign policy, the discussion will focus on eu-us cooperation in the western balkans, particularly in kosovo, and in the middle east. the commission is also proposing a debate on joint action to combat climate change. this is a difficult issue and the eu and the us are still a long way apart on this issue. however, the political debate in the united states has changed significantly in our favour. our european objective is to reach an ambitious substantive agreement for the period after 2012 within the framework of the global negotiation process under the auspices of the united nations, and it should be an agreement in which the world's most important industrial country, the united states of america, is also on board. energy policy is also on the agenda. we want to promote cooperation in science and technology, but at the same time we need a constructive and open dialogue with our conventional and potential energy suppliers, and we should exchange this sensibly in a transatlantic context. our cooperation in the fight against international terrorism has been a key common concern since at least 11 september 2001. we want to improve the ability to exchange personal data for tracing purposes. however, this requires that we develop and respect common data protection principles in this area. it is inevitable that visa-free travel will become a topic of the summit. last year, the reform of the us visa waiver program provided a solution. the member states and the commission are working hand in hand here - i am glad to say this - with the commission focusing on community responsibilities. i must say very clearly: it is politically incomprehensible that we are united as europeans in the schengen system, but are treated differently when entering our most important partner country. we will therefore remind the american president of his promise to lift the visa requirement. i would like to turn now to economic relations, on which mr rupel has already spoken. the tec, the transatlantic economic council, was established last year as a political instrument to promote transatlantic economic integration. this economic area is the heart of the world economy. it is the centre of gravity of trade and investment worldwide and will remain so for a long, long time. we are therefore determined to use tec to find solutions to issues which have been open for years - in some cases for 10, 15, 20 years - but which represent significant barriers to transatlantic trade. the balance sheet after one year is good. we were able to tackle some initial and difficult questions successfully. we have succeeded above all in creating a spirit of cooperation and mutual trust unlike any we have known before. i am glad that we can rely on the full support of the european parliament, which has been involved in every phase of this cooperation. we have good working relations with all the existing transatlantic dialogues and i am also grateful for the support of the council, which will continue to be important in the future. there are a number of concrete results: we have made progress on product safety of imports, we have achieved acceptance of european accounting standards by the us, we have a common vision on promoting an open global investment environment. the summit will also adopt a declaration to this effect. we are already working more closely together on proposed legislation and we want to go the way of common european-american standards so that we do not have to compete with each other on world markets with our standards. we are one important step further in the mutual recognition of safety regulations for electrical equipment, something we as europeans have been asking the americans to do for many years. the americans have reopened the case, which was totally unexpected after such a short time. we have begun to coordinate our economic policy interests vis-à-vis third countries and in the international context. there is no breakthrough yet in the inspection of container cargo. this is very worrying. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, to make full use of your contacts with congress, because this is a decision taken by congress, not by the american government. that is why my efforts to reach a solution in talks with the american government are not very promising. this is where congress has to act, the government can't. i hope your contacts with your colleagues in the american congress will help us. the commission has put forward two proposals in connection with the work of the transatlantic economic council, relating to the ban on imports of american poultry. we propose that this import ban be lifted. it's not legally or scientifically viable. i know that this debate is being conducted partly emotionally and quite obviously without full knowledge of the context and background. i ask anyone who wishes to speak to get this complete knowledge. it is a question which for many years - as i found - was arbitrarily excluded from parliamentary debate. we must not give protectionism a chance, nor should we adopt the arrogant attitude that only our own solutions are good for consumers and that what others do is necessarily bad. it's also possible that something that's different isn't worse than what we're doing. you have to weigh that on a case-by-case basis. just because something's different doesn't mean it's worse. if we do not solve this problem, which is a marginal problem, but one of great fundamental importance for the american side, if we do not have the slightest chance - and i say this in all seriousness - of bringing to the table the major agricultural policy issues which we wish to discuss with the americans, we shall not make any progress, for example, in our demands to the americans in the agricultural sector. this is in the name of the european union's agriculture ministers, who thought it right to say no to this initiative before they even heard of it. you have done yourself a great deal of harm. i have no illusions: all the issues dealt with by the transatlantic economic council are difficult, and none of them will be solved quickly. but all these questions can be solved with the necessary reason and foresight on both sides. this instrument is too important and too valuable to be wasted here. the importance of this cannot be underestimated in the face of the deadlock in the doha negotiations, even though we are all keen to see the world trade round come to a successful conclusion with a win-win outcome. we will achieve a rapid conclusion of the negotiations on a second stage of the air transport agreement at the summit, which will give an additional boost to the transatlantic economy. ladies and gentlemen, overall the eu's relations with the usa are developing in a very positive direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we hope that this summit will send another strong signal that we are partners who, regardless of electoral periods, regardless of the term of office of the respective administration, the respective council, the respective parliament or the commission, are determined to assume responsibility for the transatlantic area and for solving global issues. i would be very grateful to the european parliament if it would continue to support and promote this process with great energy!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, will you put specific points of order on the points you disagree with? the european parliament is calling for guantanamo to be closed and we have recently had revelations of floating prisons, which probably passed through european ports. will you say something about this to the americans ? or will you stand behind what the american people are asking for on this issue? will you tell them something to stop undermining the global agreement on climate change? to give up their biofuel monopoly? to move a little bit, so there's not this food crisis that makes food expensive? and because, mr verheugen, you played a leading role in lifting a ban on chlorinated chickens that has been in force in the european union since 1997, i say to you that those who disagree with you - and there are many of us - are not because we lack information, but because we put the protection of public health above commercial interests. twenty-one of the twenty-seven member states disagree, the european parliament unanimously disagrees and the committee responsible disagrees; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they're not all unrelated, mr verheugen. you have to make your case.
mr president, recently there has been a growing number of voices in the european union advocating the need to extend the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and primarily to meet europe's energy needs. given the uncontrolled rise in the price of oil, increased demand from a number of fast-growing economies, regional turmoil in oil-producing countries, and the fact that renewable energy sources or natural gas will provide a percentage of europe's energy needs, the question of establishing nuclear power plants is being raised. but there are many questions that are plaguing european citizens. is the safe operation of nuclear plants guaranteed? are there appropriate systems to guarantee early warning in the event of a malfunction? and finally, how safe is nuclear waste management? i think that it is important to have a dialogue, on the initiative of the european parliament and in cooperation with the commission, which will lead to clear conclusions that will not cause confusion among the european public. i call on the french presidency to put this issue as a high priority on the agenda.
mr president, the price increases for all kinds of consumer goods, transport and services, together with low wages and pensions, and the drastic cuts in social benefits, have repeatedly hit the incomes of the people, while at the same time ensuring enormous profits for the monopoly business groups. the precision has become uncontrollable for working-class families in all member states. the people are being deceived by those who try to put the responsibility for accuracy on the shoulders of a few bad speculators, in order to hide the fact that what fuels accuracy are the profits of monopolies, the policy of free markets and competition, which are the foundations of the existence and policies of the european union, which the member states and their governments are co-forming and implementing. the precision starts with the monopoly of production and trade dominated by business groups that plunder the incomes of the people and crush thousands of small units and businesses. we call on the workers to escalate their struggles for real increases in wages, pensions, social benefits, for the abolition of vat on consumer goods, on public services, on fuel, for a reduction in the prices of public services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it distorts competition. the people who fish illegally, uncontrollably and illegally are in a better position than the legal people we are called upon to protect. unreported fishing means revenue loss for the state. the proposal for a regulation we are voting on provides, among other things, for the creation of a system of port state controls which will prohibit entry to third country vessels involved in illegal fishing activities. the proposal provides for a ban on the import of illegal catches; establishing a list of vessels involved in illegal and unreported fishing; the development of a community early warning system where illegal catches are suspected to have been detected; the prohibition of imports of fisheries from countries found not to be cooperating under the european union regime. there are some points of friction in the regulation, such as its scope. some member states are calling for it to be limited to fishing rights of community vessels outside community waters, as there are already a number of provisions for the control of fishing within community waters. in addition, the revision of the basic fisheries control regulation is expected by the end of 2008. i think that there will be overlap between the two regulations and that they will not facilitate the process of simplifying the common fisheries policy. i would like to conclude by saying that this is a very serious matter and we must deal with it as such. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on the really excellent work she has done on her report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the european union must move forward immediately, not just as a union of bureaucratic, complex and often inapplicable regulations even by its members, in a global initiative without fearing big interests and without succumbing to international or other pressures, so that the entire global fishing community understands, accepts and finally agrees to minimize illegal and illegal fishing. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are not caught by the fishermen in the north sea. we must, commissioner, look at these matters directly and tackle the problems.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr jean-pierre audy, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on effective import and export rules and procedures in the service of trade policy [2007/2256 (ini) ] (a6-0184/2008).
member of the commission. − madam president, i would firstly like to thank you for your interest and contribution to the improvement of our legislation and practice in the customs area. i want to emphasise that the two legal documents – the modernised customs code and the e-customs decision – will make the functioning of the european union’s customs services better, faster and even cheaper. i am, of course, at the disposal of parliament to keep you informed of the main developments in the field of customs legislation and its implementation. on 1 april the commission adopted a new communication on a strategy for the evolution of the customs union, which was supported by a resolution of the council. the future customs initiative resulting from this communication will support customs in providing an appropriate and balanced response to the double challenge that they face – on the one hand ensuring the safety and security control of goods at the external borders and, on the other hand, facilitating trade. to this end, the initiative envisages moving from the current transaction-based approach of customs formalities and controls to a system-based approach, focusing on the internal control systems and supply chain of the economic operators. such a new approach implies new working and control methods and a future customs risk management strategy. it will also offer a platform for working with the member states on the most appropriate operational structures to be put in place in the future for an efficient functioning of the customs union. regarding mrs roithová’s question about the us congress’s hundred percent scanning initiative: even before it was adopted by the congress we had made a number of efforts to change the proposal, but failed to do so. the us administration showed a great deal of understanding because they also realised that the introduction of such measures would be a unilateral step and so would be contrary to our bilateral and multilateral approach. the us administration understood that it would certainly not increase security but, on the contrary, would generate a false sense of security, which would divert resources and attention from the real security measures. our concept is the future recognition of security standards, of security controls, the result of security controls and also the mutual recognition of the customs trade partnership: the ct pact on the us side and the authorised economic operator on the eu side. i mention this because there was some reference, in connection with smes, to the fact that this authorised economic operator is a very good system for making life better and easier for small and medium-sized companies. we quite recently provided information for the us administration when, in april, we presented a report to michael chertoff and to the customs and border protection of the us in which we explained what kind of difficulties we expect from the introduction of hundred percent scanning: the disruption of trade, the disturbances in maritime traffic and also in bilateral trade relations. just to give you one figure: in one single year the us receives more than ten million sea containers. we send some two million containers from the eu, and this system, if introduced, would cover more than 700 ports all over the world, so you can imagine what kind of problems it will cause. we hope that, step by step, not only the us administration but also the legislators will come to understand that it will certainly not increase security, but will create very serious problems in bilateral and multilateral trade. finally, as emphasised in the report, 2008 is the year of the 40th anniversary of the customs union. it will also be the year of a new start for the community and the member states in that field.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on forced prostitution and trafficking of women for sexual exploitation by anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0062/2008 - b6-0160/2008).
member of the commission. − madam president, although the issue does not fall within in my portfolio, i feel privileged to substitute for my good friend and colleague jacques barrot, and to participate in this debate, because i am convinced that this is a very important issue. i wish to assure you that the commission is wholeheartedly committed to the fight against trafficking in human beings as a brutal violation of human rights and as a very serious criminal offence, and is in particular committed to fighting forced prostitution. concerning the very relevant questions, which cover the whole complex issue, i will start with question no 1. the 2005 eu action plan on best practices, standards and procedures launched by the council contains a very ambitious array of measures to fight trafficking in human beings. on the basis of the information submitted by the member states, our impression is that, although some results have been achieved, the situation remains unsatisfactory concerning both criminal proceedings and assistance to victims, which is of particular importance. the commission will be delivering a report on its implementation by the end of this year. this stocktaking exercise could form the basis for deciding what actions to pursue in the near future, and in what form. question no 2: the protection of victims of trafficking is a human rights duty. furthermore, it is an essential condition for the successful prosecution of traffickers, as victims’ testimony is vital to getting convictions. directive 2004/81/ec follows that line by providing for the granting of a reflection period allowing the victim to recover and escape the influence of traffickers, and granting a residence permit. all member states bound by the above directive have officially notified full transposition of the legal instrument to the commission, with the exception of spain and luxembourg. the commission has decided to refer those two member states to the european court of justice. as regards the analysis of its substantial transposition and implementation, in january 2007 the commission launched a study to evaluate the transposition into national law of 10 directives in the field of asylum and immigration, including this directive. the final findings of that study, which will soon be made available to the commission, will provide the basis for a systematic monitoring of the existing acquis in this area, in accordance with article 226 of the ec treaty. question no 3: the commission has also launched a study to evaluate member states’ legislation and the situation concerning trafficking in human beings. the results of the study are expected to be delivered by the end of february 2009. question no 4: forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings are a violation of fundamental rights and are one type of organised crime. efforts to combat criminal networks must necessarily be transnational. cross-border cooperation between member states’ police forces has a privileged channel in europol. in addition, the fight against trafficking in human beings is a priority area in the financial programme ‘prevention of and fight against crime’, which supports transnational cooperation projects involving law enforcement authorities, as well as ngos. finally, to question no 5. the campaign ‘red card to forced prostitution’, launched for the 2006 football world cup, was a good step towards raising awareness about trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation. although the assessment carried out by germany shows that the fear of an increase in forced prostitution and trafficking did not materialise in 2006, we welcome all initiatives aimed at informing public opinion, raising public awareness, preventing such heinous criminal phenomena and helping victims.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european football championship will begin in austria and switzerland next saturday. it is the second largest sporting event after the world cup. it has been reported that some 2.5 million fans from all over europe will be watching the games. but reports are that, as is the case with similar large events, a large number of women - estimated at 25,000 - from all over the world will be travelling to the cities where the games will be held, unfortunately not only to support their teams but because they are forced into forced prostitution. this is certainly not something that leaves the international community indifferent. the european union and the european parliament in particular cannot be left indifferent. madam president, commissioner, the intervention of the european parliament in 2006 in a similar case on the occasion of the world cup in germany, as we heard from the honourable member, produced positive results. at that time, the number of women reported to be forced into prostitution was between 40,000 and 60,000. it would therefore be appropriate to act again, as we did in 2006 with the oral question by mrs wortmann-kool. and i suggest that the president of the european parliament and the commissioner responsible send a letter, as mr frattini did in 2006 to mrs merkel, a letter to both the organising committee and uefa, in which we express our concern at the risk of turning a sporting event into uncontrolled entertainment with women as its victims. i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, that united and with our voice in the forefront, we will be able to ward off dangers which do not honour us, which do not honour society, and which exploit human suffering.
member of the commission. − madam president, as many speakers have said – and as i also mentioned – similar initiatives and proposals were tabled and actions were adopted by parliament and the commission before the 2006 world cup organised in germany. fortunately, the concerns and fears of the german authorities and the european institutions did not materialise. but that is certainly not a reason to draw the conclusion that we should not do anything now and that we can sit on our hands. it is more than reasonable to have this debate, because it is certainly better to be on the safe side and to be better prepared than necessary; it is also reasonable to make use of this opportunity to take stock of the actions, and to enable parliament to make suggestions to the commission, and it is also a good opportunity to raise public awareness. i do understand the dissatisfaction of a number of speakers. in my introductory remarks i mentioned how many concrete reports the commission launched and we are expecting the studies and the conclusions which are being drawn up, on which further actions and further action programmes can be based. mrs bozkurt mentioned the issue of hotlines and i think it is a good idea, though it is not so easy to achieve. as far as the other hotline of consumer protection is concerned, it is a very different issue. so i do not think that this hotline established or initiated by my fellow commissioner mrs kuneva could be used, for instance, for victim protection, because it is a very different issue. it is much more complicated. mrs breyer also mentioned victim protection which i think is a very important key issue. i would like to point out that there will be a specific chapter on victim assistance in the evaluation and monitoring report of the action plan, which will be ready by october or november 2008, and we will assess the real implementation of measures to protect victims. on the first eu anti-trafficking day which was on 18 october 2007, gls issued recommendations on victim identification and referral services. i want to assure you that we are determined to ensure appropriate follow-up and i want to assure members of parliament that the commission is ready to intensify the fight against trafficking, against forced prostitution and the organised crime behind it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the mediterranean has been present in europe's external relations since the beginning of european integration. the treaty of rome already provides for privileged relations with certain mediterranean countries. our institutional framework has evolved to adapt to the political conditions of the region, but also to international conditions, because the mediterranean has always been the focus of international challenges and problems. it is common ground that we have not achieved the ambitious objectives we set in barcelona in 1995 and redefined in 2005, but no one doubts that our euro-mediterranean relations have given us numerous opportunities for meetings and acquaintances at bilateral, supranational, civil society and parliamentary levels. president sarkozy's proposal for a mediterranean union, its development within the framework of the european union and its institutions, has demonstrated the urgency of the realisation of the euro-mediterranean dream and makes this dream more concrete and mature for both sides. that's his big offer, after all. the mediterranean has been at the centre of our reflections, changes, plans and even the balance of power and relations in the union. the development of this proposal is also an example of the drive, innovation and commitment that the union can have in the face of major challenges. i would like to congratulate and thank the european commission, and in particular commissioner ferrero-waldner, for her work and her proposal, in which she presents us with a balanced and integrated plan. it is making use of our commitments and our achievements, it is working out the new french proposals, it is building new roads for this new course. the european parliament welcomes and supports, through this joint resolution, these efforts and will stand in solidarity with this interesting and ambitious process which is now under way. the challenges are growing larger and more urgent in the region. deep economic and political differences, deep security problems, economic inequalities. the economic and political environment in the mediterranean is also becoming more and more complex, because, in addition to the presence of the united states, we have china and russia, so we have to be more proactive and efficient.
draft opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. - mr president, i shall not use the two minutes, i suppose. i would just like to point out that the legal affairs committee, in examining the legal bases, has considered article 95 of the first part and articles 95 and 175 of the second part as the legal basis. the opinion of the committee on legal affairs will be taken into account for the validity of the decision.
i take the floor because, mr president, we have just voted overwhelmingly to allocate eur 90 million from the european union solidarity fund to greece following the devastating fires last summer. the european public was shocked by this disaster last summer and with our decision today, here in the european parliament, we are giving a practical example of solidarity with the areas and the people who were devastated last august. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on budgets, including you, for the very interesting and quick work we have done and for the very successful hearing we have organised. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have today a major decision to allocate money to the greek people, which for non-political reasons, for technical reasons, has unfortunately not been made possible to clarify through a debate. i'm sorry about that, but the force of the decision is more important.
in writing. the ee sacrifices public health to the profits of european monopoly firms, which require less controls and more sanitation. the latest food scandal involving sunflower oil mixed with mineral oils is a hallmark of eu policy. the eu and the governments of the member states, instead of taking measures to limit even the insolvency of the multinationals acting unchecked, are limiting themselves to interfering with the export of sunflower oil from ukraine. at the same time, the eu food hygiene directive allows the transport of oils and other liquids intended for human consumption by tankers carrying oils and other toxic liquids. the commission proposal, under the pretext of reducing the administrative costs for small businesses, calls for a further derogation from the already inadequate food hygiene directive which will make food controls even more difficult, since large multinationals use and hide behind these businesses for activities dangerous and destructive to public health, in order to avoid any liability. food that is safe, in sufficient quantities and cheap for workers, will not exist unless they resist and overturn the eu policy that serves the interests of multinational food companies and the increase of their profits.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. • calls for the strengthening of us-eu imperialist cooperation, including through the strengthening of nato, with the aim of manipulating and exploiting peoples and countries; • reaffirms the eu-u.s. strategic anti-people alliance in the 'war on terror', which, however much it may be peppered with hypocritical appeals for respect for human rights, is but a pretext for the ruthless war they have jointly launched against the peoples; • using the effects of climate change on countries and peoples as a pretext, prepares the ground for new imperialist interventions with the usa; • by a policy of equal distance, effectively supports the israeli occupation forces and their crimes against the palestinian people, advocates the continuation of the occupation of iraq and afghanistan, proposes practical us-eu cooperation measures in the euro-asian protectorate of kosovo. the resolution once again demonstrates the eu-us strategic alliance at the expense of the people and exposes the political forces of the euro-path that are trying to present the eu as an opponent of the us.
in writing. the european parliament has voted against the joint resolution because the basis of the euro-mediterranean union is not equal, mutually beneficial relations with the states of the region, but the eu's imperialist plans for the wider mediterranean and middle east. the aim of this association is to liberalise markets in order to promote the penetration of european monopolies under better conditions, to improve their position in monopoly competition for market control, and to exploit the region's energy and resource-producing resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution is revealing. the primary objective of the euro-mediterranean union's policy is to 'export' democracy and human rights to the mediterranean countries, a pretext by which the eu legitimises its imperialist interventions everywhere. it is essentially the promotion of the us-nato-eu imperialist project for the 'new middle east'. that is why it does not mention the israeli occupation of palestinian land and the genocide of the palestinian people. the people must be clear about the nature and aims of the euro-mediterranean union and must oppose it.
in writing. the ageing of the rural population, the abandonment of farms and the steady decline in the number of young people employed in agriculture have been recurring findings for 20 years. the eu's measures over the years have not been able to address the problems of small and medium-sized farmers, especially young farmers, because they are part of the eu's anti-agricultural policy aimed at reducing production and concentrating land in the hands of a few large farmers, with the consequent shrinking of the rural population and the desertification of the countryside, especially by young people. the report shall be limited to findings. the measures it proposes, since they are part of this policy, obscure the real cause of the problems: the reactionary policy of the eu which, with its anti-agricultural cap, promotes the protection and increase of the profits of multinational monopolies and the attack on the income of small and medium-sized farmers. the report strongly supports the partial revision of the 2003 cap, the proposed cap 'health control' measures, the integration of the rural economy into the eu's anti-people lisbon strategy. the overthrow of the anti-peasant, anti-people policy of the eu is the only solution to keep farmers on their land, ensuring a decent income, against the ambitions and interests of the multinational monopolies.
mr president, i have followed with particular attention your message on the irish 'no'. i fully subscribe to your statement that the ratification process must continue. it is indeed very surprising that the irish 'no' has come at a time when the european union is becoming more democratic, more transparent and more effective. but, mr president, we must decipher the message of the forces behind the 'no'. the irish people have spoken, they have exercised their right democratically; but this "no" also sends us a message of creative self-criticism. i focus this self-criticism on two things: the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not the only one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know, mr president, that you are committed to european affairs, and i call on the european parliament to rise to the occasion of a political body, a corps politique, where the expressed guidelines of the european integration process will meet.
mr president, the european parliament's offices in the member states are the body's point of contact with the public. one of their main tasks is to inform the public through various activities about what is happening in the european parliament. one of these activities involves inviting journalists to strasbourg to cover the proceedings of the plenary. i had asked the european parliament, mr president, about the decision to reduce the budget for the press call on 24 january 2008. however, after almost five months, i have still not received any reply. the same thing happens in other committees, with the result that members' reasonable questions are not answered. i wonder whether this is constructive for the functioning of the institutions of the european parliament and the competent services at a time when the european union needs the proper functioning of the procedures laid down in its rules.
member of the commission. - the mr president, last year, thanks to the community civil protection mechanism, the european union mobilized on a massive scale to assist the member states affected by the devastating forest fires. we have identified a number of areas which need to be addressed immediately in order to avoid similar disasters in the future. first, the need to address the lack of available technical assistance observed during the 2007 operations. secondly, the need for an integrated approach to forest fire management, including prevention, preparedness and response, and thirdly, the need to strengthen the operational capacity of the commission's monitoring and information centre. the commission has already taken a number of practical and operational measures. its main activities are: - networking and training of forest fire experts; - interoperability courses for national firefighting teams; - a large-scale exercise organised in april in sardinia involving forces from five member states; - the setting up of three civil protection units for aerial firefighting. financial support has already been secured for the transport of the aid instruments. also, on the basis of the 2008 pilot programme on forest fires, we are working with member states to create regular emergency reserves in europe. in addition, between 2007 and 2013, some €5.8 billion will be allocated from cohesion policy programmes to prevent and respond to risks in a variety of disaster situations, including forest fires. the rural development funds will also provide an additional eur 1.6 billion for restoring forestry potential and introducing preventive measures. finally, the european solidarity fund will continue to be available for the most devastating disasters. in its communication of march, the commission underlined the need for an integrated approach to disaster response, which should include prevention, preparedness, response and recovery. it examined all types of disasters, natural or man-made, inside and outside the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition to civil protection, the communication addressed three other areas of community action: - the strengthening of european humanitarian aid; - improving coordination of response capacity to disasters; - the improvement of interinstitutional cooperation, i.e. cooperation between the european institutions. we are still working on an action plan which will be ready in the summer and will set out a number of specific initiatives, in addition to those in the communication, such as: - analysis of the shortcomings in logistical support capacity, both for humanitarian and civil protection actions; identify which specific tools are available, which are the most appropriate and which are the most cost-effective; - support for disaster risk reduction initiatives in third countries; - closer cooperation with the united nations, the world bank and various non-governmental organisations to strengthen disaster response capacities on a global scale; - better use of science, technology and innovation; - upgrading the role of our delegations in responding to disasters around the world; and - more effective post-crisis damage assessment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the european union. to address this issue, the commission is preparing a communication assessing the added value of establishing a community disaster prevention mechanism and presenting options aimed at: - improving our knowledge of disasters and their impact; - improving the link between related policies, e.g. the link between spatial planning and disaster prevention; - improving the use of community resources. in addition to this initiative, which will focus on the european union, the commission is developing a disaster risk reduction strategy in developing countries. finally, the commission has taken a number of measures to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to disasters likely to affect europe. the commission's monitoring and information centre is being strengthened. as we currently lack in-depth analyses of gaps and deficiencies in large-scale disaster response capacity, we are in the process of analysing disaster scenarios and testing innovative arrangements to make civil protection tools and capabilities available to european-scale operations. the commission will also present proposals for a european training network in disaster response by mid-2009. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament for its continued and consistent support for strengthening the community's disaster response capacity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, in recent years many countries of the european union have been affected by natural disasters such as fires, floods and earthquakes. human lives were lost, property, farms and homes were destroyed and the environment suffered relentless blows that will take many years to repair. one of the important principles on which the european union is founded is the principle of solidarity. this means that, in the event of a natural disaster, it is of major importance that the european union can provide both coordinated technical assistance and financial resources to the affected areas through the european solidarity fund. i have listened with interest to the commissioner's analysis of all the elements of prevention and coordinated intervention and we shall be looking forward to seeing the european commission take action in this regard. i would like to focus our attention on a matter concerning the european solidarity fund. i think that the council's decision not to proceed with the adoption of the regulation on the european solidarity fund is unjustified and that its decision should therefore be reviewed. the restructuring of the european fund will make a major contribution in two directions: the european union will have a strengthened capacity to respond to natural disasters in an efficient and flexible manner and, secondly, citizens who are homeless and insecure after a disaster will immediately feel european solidarity and the importance of being not only citizens of a country but also citizens of the european union. these are the policies and actions that the european citizens expect from us, and i hope that the regulation on the european solidarity fund will be adopted without delay.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. the resolution i have drawn up - and i hope we will vote almost unanimously on thursday in the plenary, as we did in the committee on the environment - asks the commission to stop delaying, to stop keeping to its word, to stop postponing. i would ask you, commissioner: are you going to do something in the commission to get barnier's proposal for the creation of a european police force, as the european parliament has repeatedly called for in its resolutions, approved? are you going to do something to make the solidarity fund more flexible and less bureaucratic? will you do something to close the serious gaps in legislation and policies, so that there is a greater and more effective european presence to assist the member states where natural disasters destroy property and take lives? we have adopted a number of questions to the commission in the committee on the environment, and today you have told us that you will be presenting proposals in one year's time, in the middle of 2009. the question is when the commission will decide to seriously consider these issues and respond to those proposed by the european parliament. who do you agree with and when will you do it? who do you disagree with and why? if the council is blocking you and refusing to give you the resources you need or if someone in the commission is blocking you, mr de maire, tell us so that we can help you. we do not want just good words, we want action, so that this summer too we do not mourn the victims and the great ecological disasters.
mr president, commissioner, last september many politicians expressed their grief for the victims of the fires; but not many have expressed the sense of responsibility that they should feel for the fact that we ended up having them and having such disastrous results. but a politician must feel responsible. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will do so in the near future. commissioner, you mentioned that €5.8 billion will be allocated for the period 2009-2013 for fire prevention. in 2008, now, how much money have you spent on prevention? how many and which governments have absorbed and what of this money? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fire prevention measures are implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account. have you looked in the meantime at what has been done in greece to improve these problems? or are you simply distributing funds to governments that may be squandering them?
mr president, there is no doubt that if the european union is to take effective action in dealing with natural disasters, the three pillars of prevention, response and recovery must be covered. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. there is a reaction, it is clear, even within the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to protest strongly against this practice. without precautions, we won't do anything. the image of president barroso in the helicopter with a cheque from the solidarity fund at the end is not a european union solidarity practice. the practice of solidarity is a comprehensive framework for dealing with the kind of situation described by barnier, which is still being worked out in some places, in some of the loose ends, not to say in the bureaucratic corridors. we've moved past the diagnosis phase, we're now in the prescription phase.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos, and the committee on employment and social affairs, as well as the rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, mrs geringer, for the very good work they have done. the european year 2010 will play a significant role in the development of a social europe. the approach chosen, i.e. one year combining centralised and decentralised activities, is the one that should best promote policy coherence between the different actors and levels of government and allow for some flexibility to take account of the specific situation of each member state. the european year 2010 will enable the european union and the member states to renew their political commitment and highlight the impact of poverty and exclusion on the union's social and economic development and on the dignity of our citizens. it will aim to show that the fight against poverty is possible and can be successful. the european year will also provide an opportunity to debate european values and to respect them as principles for the development of public policy, both at union and member state level. it will help to change the way people are viewed when they are affected by poverty and exclusion. the commission has always insisted that this proposal, this approach, be retained in the text. i believe that most of the amendments tabled by parliament are in that direction.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, according to the 2008 joint report on social protection and inclusion, 16% of the population of the european union still lives below the poverty line and 19% of children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, despite all the commitments made in 2000 by the member states to drastically reduce poverty by 2010. it is not just women, children and certain social groups who are always particularly vulnerable. international developments in the energy and food production sectors and the inherent inequalities in the less prosperous regions of the union itself with permanent structural handicaps, the peripheral, island, deindustrialized and other areas, create the conditions not for the eradication but for the flourishing of this worrying phenomenon. poverty and social exclusion are a threat to development, competitiveness and the social model, as well as a violation of human rights in a europe which wants to set an example of respect for human dignity and the promotion of equal opportunities for all. the european commission's proposal to establish a european year against poverty and social exclusion in 2010 with a budget clearly higher than previous european years is an important step towards promoting solidarity and social justice, as well as greater economic and social cohesion. we aim to make 2010 a year-end for recognising the multi-dimensional nature of poverty and social exclusion, which is not limited to material poverty but also includes access to health services, housing, social protection, education, training, employment and quality of life, for recognising the right of people living in poverty to live in dignity and to participate in social and economic life, for reaffirming the shared responsibility of the european institutions of the member states, but also of the social partners and all citizens, for enhancing social cohesion. the year 2010 will lay the foundations for effective collective liability structures and for a fair redistribution of goods. the european people's party took the lead in proposals and accepted amendments and the cooperation of all the factions in the european parliament. we have therefore strengthened the commission's proposal by broadening the definition of vulnerable groups and adding topics such as addressing the needs of families with special problems, single parents, families with many children, addressing the specific problems of disabled people, homeless people, promoting active integration, access to culture and entertainment. this does not, of course, take away the emphasis on the primary importance of increasing the economic potential of individuals and families through opportunities for decent permanent employment that gives the satisfaction of participation and the necessary self-reliance to meet the needs of the most vulnerable members, such as children and the elderly. we, the members of the european parliament, have paid particular attention to the proper application of community legislation on equal opportunities and to the formulation and implementation of integrated and coordinated policies at national, regional and local level, designed by public and private bodies with the participation of the citizens themselves, in order to respect the principles of good governance, subsidiarity and proportionality. the success of the year will be achieved by strengthening the open method of coordination, by coordinating actions with existing european programmes and the results of previous european years, by actively involving civil society and by properly evaluating proposals and results by the european commission. the question of the participation of non-governmental organisations and the level of funding for their activities was the subject of a compromise between parliament, the commission and the council. we are pleased that the council has accepted a proposal to annex to the decision an additional declaration from the commission to encourage the participation of small and mediumsized non-governmental organizations and the possibility of their activities being fully financed by the national bodies. i would like to thank the relevant officials, colleagues, associates for their contribution to the decision-making process.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a debate that was extremely deep, that addressed and touched on poverty from many angles. i think it is clear from the presentation of the proposal that the commission is not leaving the issue of poverty unaddressed and that its aim is to gradually create a political environment which will make it possible to combat poverty more effectively. i would also like to point out that the commission takes a very comprehensive view of the problem of poverty, and although in a number of its documents, of which i consider our communication on active inclusion, which deals with poverty as such, to be the most concrete of recent times, the commission emphasises the importance of good work, since the lisbon strategy aims at more work and higher quality, the commission is nevertheless aware that the labour market alone cannot fully address the problem of poverty. i can only mention very clearly child poverty, which is also undoubtedly very significantly related to the quality of the school system. i can also mention the issue of retirement poverty, which is certainly not directly solvable by the labour market. let me mention some other circumstances that i consider important. the commission proposes funding of €17 million and the debate raised the idea that the share of funding for national projects should be increased, particularly in some countries. the commission disagrees with this view for the simple reason that our aim is to make available the greatest number, the greatest amount of resources possible, so that our action is as effective as possible. the year against poverty is a classic example of a common democratic political process. to achieve a breakthrough, to change the political climate, we need a broad and concrete discussion on the subject, and that's the goal of this year. let me now touch on the individual amendments. i would like to state that i support the amendments concerning the recasting of the titles of the objectives referred to in article 2 and the list of priorities for the year's activities, and i am also in favour of amendments which seek to take greater account of the issue of equality between women and men. furthermore, since a number of amendments have been tabled, let me choose this procedure to present to parliament a precise list of them, without quoting them verbatim. let me just mention two, articles 37 and 52, on which i want to make a separate statement. so now let me read the text of the statement that concerns these two articles. the commission attaches great importance to facilitating and promoting, at all levels, broad participation in the activities of the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion as a practical means of ensuring its positive and lasting impact. in accordance with the decision on the european year, the commission shall draw up common guidelines for a strategic framework document setting out the key priorities for the implementation of the activities of the european year, including minimum standards for participation in national bodies and in events. the strategy framework document is addressed to the national implementing bodies responsible for drawing up the national programme for the european year in question and for selecting the individual actions to be proposed for financing from community resources, as well as to the other bodies concerned. in this context, the commission will underline the importance of facilitating access by all ngos, including smes. in order to ensure the widest possible access, national implementing authorities may decide not to apply for co-financing and to finance some actions in full instead. so that's the text of the statement. let me, ladies and gentlemen, touch on one more speech, that of mr falbr, who opened up the question of the working time directive and opened it up in a way that is very different from reality. so i want to make it absolutely clear that if we are to formulate the result of the compromise that the council has made very clearly and very simply, the result is: 'the 48-hour working week remains and the possibility of opt-outs has been reduced from 78 hours per working week to 60 or 65 hours.' so that's one of the essential parts of the compromise, and since it was mentioned in the debate here today, i think it was good to respond to that. ladies and gentlemen, in closing, let me thank you again for a discussion that has opened up the issue of poverty from all its many facets and which i think has been very profound. unfortunately, i do not think it is rational at this stage to respond to each of the contributions mentioned, notwithstanding the fact that the vast majority of them are included in the report by the honourable member, whom i would like to thank once again for this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the union. the commission may accept in full the amendments nos 6, 7, 12, 13, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 41, 42, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63. the commission cannot accept in substance, in part, in the spirit or subject to recasting, the following amendments: nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 18, 24, 25, 26, 30, 32, 37, 43, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52, 64 and 66. finally, the commission must reject amendments nos 40 and 65. more specifically, as regards amendments nos 37 and 52 concerning the participation of small and medium-sized organisations and the possibility of co-financing up to the full cost of certain projects, the commission proposed, as a compromise solution, to present a declaration, which i will read to you, in which it undertakes to take up the spirit of the content of these two amendments in the strategic framework document, which the commission is to draw up in order to define the main priorities for the implementation of the activities of the european year.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement and i hope that the common guidelines in the strategic framework document will really give direction to the national committees to design effective actions with the main objective, as he stressed, of actively integrating all those who are now or are about to be affected by poverty. i personally believe that poverty is a phenomenon that is not eradicated forever, because it can come back with a natural disaster. we have talked about the disasters in greece or other countries from floods and from fires. it may come again, or it may be brought about by international circumstances. we must therefore always be ready and, for this reason, we place particular emphasis on prevention and that is why we have the indicative day for the fight against poverty on 17 october, as mrs záborská has stressed, a date which we have included in our report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. the commissioner is a historian and knows that the emperor of byzantium, the emperor of the empire that lasted 1,000 years in europe, was in favour of fighting poverty in every speech he gave. he considered it the number one enemy of his state, apart from the various enemies he fought on the border with guns. so we as the european union must also deal with it internally and externally and implement these famous millennium development goals, so as to deal with the phenomenon of economic migration, but also with illegal migrants who come because they compare their situation with ours. so i'm sure with good planning we can have good results, and i thank you all for your kind words. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, commissioner, the specific thematic nature of the harangozó report is a very important move by the european parliament to reach out to vulnerable communities and groups and to integrate them smoothly through a european cohesion policy. as an initiative i am in full agreement with it and i acknowledge the effort made by the rapporteur, but i must disagree with the way in which the matter has been developed. there are certain points in the report which, despite the honourable member's diligent efforts, remain blank. such cases are: vulnerable communities and groups which are a wide range of people and micro-communities and are not just roma. the european parliament has already dealt with this category in a special report. the report had to address a wider social and geographical audience. the european people's party insisted on the usefulness of this two-dimensional approach, but it was not heard. the report remains one-sided and often short-sighted in its approach to this. i have a particular sensitivity to the mountain and island regions, considering that no one can question the vulnerability of their societies. they're not mentioned anywhere in the report. i am opposed to the permanent policy of avoiding the definition and naming of things and situations. i would also like to stress that vulnerable communities and groups exist not only at interregional but also at intra-regional level. they need logistical support, technological and scientific know-how, education, training and administrative background with emphasis on decentralisation of the public sector and the extension of transport networks. volunteering can also play an important role in these groups, both activating and de-marginalizing them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is characterized by ambiguities and a lack of sectoral organization. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress that this report is an expression of our conviction that cohesion policy, 20 years after its creation, must continue to bring the union's solidarity not only to the weakest regions and states, but also to the weakest communities and groups of our citizens. cohesion policy should be strengthened not only with financial resources but also with the appropriate instruments and procedures to enable it to identify and address the complex and multi-dimensional social and economic disparities at local level. the challenges facing our regions today are such that the problems of poverty, social and territorial exclusion cannot remain unsolved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: an integrated approach, synergy of means and policies to deal with them.
madam president, i am deeply concerned that for three years the ministers in the council have been blocking, bargaining away provisions which should be considered non-negotiable, for the protection of fundamental rights, including those of illegal immigrants. that means something is very wrong with some governments in europe. in europe it should be non-negotiable that no one can be imprisoned for 18 months, not for something he did or did not do, but for refusing to cooperate with the authorities of his country of origin in the process of deportation, through no fault of his own. it should be non-negotiable that when the supreme repressive measure of deprivation of liberty is decided upon for any of our impoverished fellow men, he should - without any concessions or loopholes - at least have the right to legal aid and to a trial by a judge of his detention. it should be non-negotiable that unaccompanied minors are not deported to third countries. finally, if they cannot safely return to their homes, let us keep these children, let us protect them here in europe. at the same time, european solidarity should be equally non-negotiable, so that the countries, especially those in the south, which receive the largest waves of migrants, can have the generous financial support of the rest of the world to guarantee these human rights. vague statements of possible future support from the commission are not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the final result obviously had some positive elements, at least with regard to countries which currently do not provide any protection. but in key areas, the same countries have imposed on the rest a compromise of the lowest common denominator, often highly problematic, vague and left to the discretion of governments which have shown their lack of sensitivity, dear gérard. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the proposal for a directive is unacceptable and cynically reveals the true inhumanity of the european union and its policies. you're legislating to hold for 18 months impoverished immigrants, even underage children, in concentration camps in living conditions that are a disgrace to human civilization. you are also barred from any future entry, even legal, into the territory of the european union for five years. as far as voluntary return is concerned, it's a joke. it's basically blackmail. you tell them: either you leave on your own or we lock you up and send you back after 18 months. you treat as criminals the people who are victims of your own policy. you bomb afghanistan and protest about the refugees. you invade third world countries and complain about economic immigrants who swell the wallets of big business. the new measures will also increase the turnover of the slave traders and the circuits because the more severe the measures, the higher the prices. the situation of immigrants and other workers who are forced to work without rights will be made even worse by new blackmail for deportation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate both mr weber on the great work and the results of his work and mrs carlotti on the constructive cooperation we have had in the committee on development. the mediterranean countries face the problem of illegal immigration to a greater extent than other countries that do not have open borders. for example, in my country, greece, last year 112,000 illegal immigrants entered and 58,000 return decisions were issued. record numbers in the european union. the european union must therefore adopt a common framework to deal with this phenomenon, including accompanying measures to integrate migrants and decent conditions for the return of illegal immigrants. the european union must have a return policy based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility-sharing with developing countries. i agree with and welcome the exception in the application of the directive, which is motivated by family relations, the best interests of the child and the health status of migrants. because the best interests of the child should be safeguarded by the appropriate social services department or by counsel. the committee on development and cooperation has also called for the release of the children from detention, and i am sure that all the other members will accept this.
madam president, as mr macromatis has said, greece took in 112,000 illegal immigrants last year. but most of them did not want to stay in greece, they wanted to come to other european countries, which means that the problem of migration is european. it affects all of us and we must all face it together. in this sense, greece is in favour of a common immigration policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it is a very positive step and i congratulate him wholeheartedly on it. if we continue with the policy which the directive sets out, i think that sooner or later we will be in a better position than we are today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only reservation made by greece concerned the obligation of member states to provide free legal aid. you know why ? for two reasons: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. and that's because if we provide free legal aid to illegal immigrants, why don't we provide free legal aid to legal and needy immigrants in our country? why don't we give free legal aid to the needy citizens of our country? i think that the addition to the article in question has resolved this issue and removed the reservation of greece, and that is why we will certainly support this proposal and recommendation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr david casa, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision under article 122 (2) of the treaty on the adoption by slovakia of the single currency on 1 january 2009 (com (2008) 0249 - c6-0198/2008 - 2008/0092 (cns)) (a6-0231/2008). i would like to congratulate slovakia and the slovak colleagues on this success, for their country and for the euro area.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached agreement with the council and the commission on amendments nos 37 and 52. the compromise refers to the funding of small ngos and the level of funding of ngos respectively. the commission and the council have agreed to include a statement in the first reading agreement and i ask the commissioner, i do not see him here, but he made the statement last night during the discussion, he presented the statement included in the agreement... i do not know whether anyone here wants to present the agreement on behalf of the commission. in any case, i would ask members, if they agree with this statement, to vote for the report so that we can proceed to the vote at first reading.
in writing. the ec-council-commission compromise proposal on waste management is a substantial setback in favour of the huge economic interests behind waste and waste. the proposed directive does not contribute to the overall reduction of waste, is characterized by deliberate ambiguity of objectives and means, excludes industrial waste and is limited to some municipal waste only, serving more economic efficiency and competition than the environment and public health. an example of the general retreat is the shift in the hierarchy to recycling prior to energy recovery, and the recognition of the energy combustion of mixed waste as energy recovery for other than already envisaged cases such as biogas production. toxic and other dangerous substances which are dispersed in the air and enter the soil and water, affecting even food, directly affect the health of management workers and the general public. the volume of waste must be reduced, its management and transport rationalised, with public national, regional or local responsibility, toxic and other dangerous substances - dioxins, etc. - must be separated and sorted, recycling must be maximised, mixed waste must not be incinerated, landfills must be upgraded to protect the environment and their residues must be disposed of safely.
in writing. the irrigation of big business and industries that pollute uncontrolled rivers, lakes and water bodies with untreated toxic and toxic waste cannot be limited by legislation that effectively allows companies to pollute and pay meagre fines - even if a legislative violation is found - making huge profits at the expense of public health and the environment. the eu and governments know this, but they are systematically silent. in the face of increased profits and under the pretext of 'competitiveness', they put the lives of workers at risk, while calling on them to finance, through taxation, the measures for the cleaning up of the pollution. the pollution of the underground water supply of the para-asobean region with depleted chromium by the uncontrolled action of industries also highlights the essential shortcomings of legislation which limits itself to the setting of a maximum chromium content and provides nothing about a proven dangerous carcinogenic substance such as depleted chromium. the proposed eu measures, even when restrictive on the content of hazardous substances, are invalidated by the absence of effective controls and pollution prevention measures that would affect the profits of the industries. only the struggle of the workers against the profits of the plutocracy can guarantee the inalienable right to health and life.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the third energy package has divided the political groups. especially because of the ownership unbundling. it is obvious that this division is not ideologically rooted but is due to the different internal realities and starting points of the various member states, and followed the corresponding division of the member states in the council. these internal realities must be respected if we are not to see internal social upheavals. i am personally fully in favour of the idea of ownership unbundling, but i am well aware that under no circumstances could this unbundling be imposed in my country at the moment. it takes time for all involved to adjust to the new data. the council, after long and arduous negotiations, reached a compromise on the third solution. i therefore believe that it is our duty in this difficult matter to support the compromise, perhaps improving it in some areas with the experience we have. it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we all come out of a compromise with our heads held high. this can only be achieved if, on the one hand, vital national interests of certain member states are not compromised and, on the other, we do not compromise the basic principles of independence and efficiency which should govern the action of energy transmission system operators and energy regulators.
madam president, i would first of all like to reinforce what the rapporteur, mrs morgan, has said about the need to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable, against rising fuel prices, the need to tackle energy poverty and the dynamic promotion of investment in renewable energy sources. but as far as the great question of creating a single internal energy market is concerned, achieving this objective depends not only on the formulation and implementation of a single strategy but also on an awareness of the specific characteristics of each partner. full ownership unbundling is not an absolute and necessary condition for investments to improve the network. the delays in modernisation projects may also be due to a distorted energy policy which treats energy as a product whose disposal is primarily aimed at increasing profitability rather than improving the system.
member of the commission. − the question posed by the honorable member concerns the decision of the cour d’appel de bruxelles of 4 april 2008 to suspend ibpt’s regulatory decision of 18 december 2007 regarding mobile termination tariffs in belgium. this regulatory decision was previously notified to and assessed by the commission under article 7 of the framework directive. the commission is aware of this court decision and was informed by the national regulatory authority, ibpt, that, following this annulment, it had launched a national consultation on a draft decision resetting mobile termination rates at the same asymmetric level as in its previous regulatory decision of 11 august 2006. in the context of the community consultation mechanism (the ‘article 7 procedure’), the commission has expressed its view on numerous occasions that the termination rates should be reduced to the level of the efficient cost. this is to ensure a level playing field amongst different operators, to provide operators with the incentive to become efficient, and to bring more benefits to consumers, including lower prices. the commission has recognised the need for a transitional period for operators to achieve the efficient cost level. however, the persistence of a higher termination rate would not be justified after a period long enough for an operator to adapt to market conditions and become efficient, unless there are objective cost differences which are beyond the control of the operators concerned. the commission is mindful of the fact that differing approaches to the regulation of termination rates have the potential to hamper the consolidation of the internal market and the realisation of consumer benefits from cross-border competition and services, and this is why the commission has made it a priority to provide guidance and greater legal certainty to both operators and national regulatory authorities in the regulation of the termination markets. to this end, the commission is working on a recommendation on a common approach to both mobile and fixed termination rates which aims at promoting greater clarity and consistency in this important but also very complex area, ensuring maximum benefits to consumers in terms of affordable prices and efficient development of innovative services. such a recommendation may also give guidance to national courts. consolidation of the internal market could also be hampered if court decisions in different member states result in a situation where different interpretations are given on how similar competition problems need to be addressed. in any case, the commission closely follows all court decisions and judgments, including in the area of termination markets such as the decision of the cour d’appel to which the honorable member refers in his question.
member of the commission. − the commission from the very beginning has recognised the need for a transitional period for operators, as i said in my first speech, to achieve an efficient cost level. however, temporary asymmetries should be phased out within a reasonable timeframe. the persistence of higher termination rates would not be justified after a period which is long enough for the operator to adapt to market conditions and become more efficient, unless – as i said before – there are objective cost differences that are beyond the control of the operators concerned. allowing prices above an efficient or cost-based level can reduce operators’ incentives to innovate and to try to minimise prices. furthermore, consumers may end up paying higher prices than would otherwise be the case in a situation of cost-based symmetric termination rates. and thus termination rates should be reduced to the level of efficient costs as soon as possible without – as i said before – hampering either the position of the companies or the position of the consumers.
member of the commission. − as the two questions, as rightly said by the president, are more or less linked, i would like to take the opportunity to give a joint reply to both questions. if we look at the euro area, inflation has actually come down from 8-10% in the 1970s and the 80s to 3% in the 1990s and has actually averaged at a bit over 2% in the first decade of european monetary union. but since the third quarter of 2007, global shocks both to energy and food prices have put upward the pressure on inflation not only within the european union but throughout the whole world. the strong euro had mitigated to some extent the effect of rising or increasing prices of fuel and oil. but we have to face reality that the inflation rate has actually increased from 1.9% in august last year to 3.6% in april 2008. the commission has set out its views concerning the recent increases in food prices in the communication on ‘tackling the challenge of rising food prices: directions for eu action’. beside a set of other factors, higher oil prices have led to increasing agricultural market prices within the european union; both through higher agricultural input and also logistic costs. although demand for agricultural commodities is influenced by the biofuel market, all the analyses that the commission has made indicate that the causes of the rise in global food prices are varied. they spring both from structural and temporary factors – and the current eu biofuel production has actually very little impact on the current global food prices, with the latest estimations we have stating that approximately 1% of the land within the european union is used for biofuels. but it is clear that the recent increase in agricultural prices can only partly explain the observed food-price rise at retail level so sometimes you can see a discrepancy between the price at the farm gate and the price at the supermarket or in the shops. as the current crisis actually has many different aspects, the response proposed by the commission is equally comprehensive and is designed to tackle both the short-term consequences and the long-term drivers of soaring food prices. in order to mitigate price pressure in the agricultural sector, within the common agricultural policy (cap) we have already set further incentives to enhance market orientation and to try to boost production: with mandatory set-aside put at zero for this production year and also an increase in the milk quotas effective from 1 april 2008, we have actually been reacting very quickly. furthermore, the european union has decided to suspend the import duties on cereals for the current marketing year, for most cereals. it is obvious that we will tackle further these questions in the upcoming discussions on the health check of the common agricultural policy. in order to be able to particularly address the needs of the most deprived people in the eu, a modernisation and an upgrade of the scheme are envisaged and we will be presenting a proposal later this year. i think it is also important that we continue to encourage and promote investments in agricultural research, to enhance sustainable productivity growth in the agricultural sector, not only in europe but worldwide. regarding agricultural market price formation, the commission is committed to monitoring activities by speculative investors in commodity-related financial markets and also on their impact on price movements. as regards the question of the dominant position, any abuse of dominant positions is subject to article 82 of the treaty or its equivalent in national laws. the commission and the national competition authorities are vigilant to any infringement of the european union’s competition law. the commission takes specific care to ensure that concentration of a community dimension will not significantly impede effective competition to the detriment of consumers and of different businesses. in this context, the commission will also examine the functioning of the food supply chain in parallel with the monitoring of the retail sector established in the context of the single market review. as provided by the treaty, the measures taken by the member states and the community shall be conducted in accordance with the principles of the internal market and cross-border competition. the setting of maximum selling prices for certain basic foods is not foreseen at the moment. the commission is aware of governments currently increasing indirect taxes in a bid to boost public finance. moreover, the commission shares the view expressed by the finance ministers that distortive fiscal and other policy measures that prevent the necessary adjustments should be avoided. finally, the commission considers that short-term targeted measures taken to alleviate the impact of higher energy prices on poorer sections of the population might be justified. however, they should of course not have a distortive effect or delay the necessary structural adjustments. a general decrease – i think we can all agree on that, in taxes or in vat – is by definition not targeted at poorer sections of the population. the commission’s actions are not only concerned with domestic impacts (i think we all have a commitment to securing a level playing field also when we talk about developing countries and so far the commission has mobilised more than eur 300 million in food emergency aid and we are actively promoting a coordinated response at international level in line with the conclusions of the fao summit that took place only two weeks ago. so i think we have reacted to the challenges that the new situation is posing all of us.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for the comprehensive answer she has given to my question, but i would like to point out two issues which the commission must deal with on an immediate rather than a medium-term basis. the first is the question of controlling the prices of foodstuffs, and in particular - as you very rightly said - not so much the definition of a price ceiling for the products sold, but the definition of the production costs and the profit margin which undertakings should have, provided that this ceiling does not impede the internal market or imports. the second point is that i would like to say that the opening up of set-aside and milk quotas is a welcome measure, but the cost of pesticide production due to the increase in the price of oil, i think, may be a measure which will not work.
member of the commission. − first of all i think it is important, when we have a discussion within the european union on biofuels, that we do not point the finger at the european way of handling this issue. this is because, if as a result bioethanol/biodiesel becomes a scapegoat, we will see a situation where nobody wants to invest. then we will be left totally behind, being dependent on imports of ethanol and biodiesel; because if we do not have these in place we will not be able to meet the targets of 20% greenhouse gas emission by 2020. so we need to find a solution, and today first-generation biofuel is the only solution. but we need – and i think we agree on this – to give as much encouragement as possible to research and development for the second and even third generation of biofuels produced from waste, from slurry, from straw, from other products – such as wood chips – from the agricultural sector that are not used for anything today. this is the future, but we need to be part of this development, and therefore we need the first generation as a stepping stone. on gmos, i know that in this house there are differing opinions, but it is obvious that we need to have a situation where we can import feed for our animals, for our meat production, at reasonable prices. otherwise – and this includes, by the way, gm cereals, mainly maize – if we do not find a solution, you will see that the production of meat in europe will go down. then we will need to import meat from brazil – meat or animals that have been fed with the gms that we do not like, or that consumers do not like, but they will get it via the back door. then i think we would really be cheating the consumers. so we need our own approval system to be in place and i think that progress is being made to claw back the applications that are not yet approved, speeding up the procedure in efsa without losing the quality. finally, madam president, could i say bluntly that i am not a specialist in vat on children’s clothes so instead of giving a wrong answer i think it is better to put the question in writing.
member of the commission. − first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member, mr gklavakis, for raising, throughout his question, the importance of aquaculture, and i am very pleased to provide the commission’s view on this issue. as you rightly pointed out, and as highlighted by the united nations food and agriculture organisation, the global aquaculture industry is gaining increasing importance and plays a key role in bridging the gap between a growing demand for seafood and the supply of fish products, especially in a context of diminishing wild fish stocks. the commission is at present preparing a communication on a strategy for the sustainable development of eu aquaculture, which should be finalised by the end of 2008. the strategy will seek to create the best environment for the sustainable growth of aquaculture, ensuring both adequate supplies of seafood to the european union’s citizens and compliance with high environmental and public health standards. access to space for aquaculture has indeed been identified as a key obstacle to the development of aquaculture and marine spatial planning can play a role in addressing this issue. the forthcoming aquaculture strategy will cover this issue. the issue of competition from third countries with lower production standards could be addressed through market differentiation schemes such as certification. consideration will be given to this matter in the drawing-up of the strategy. more generally, competitiveness and innovation will be central issues to be addressed in this strategy.
madam president, thank you for your answer, commissioner. i would also like to note the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see that many producers are turning to organic fish farming, which offers healthier food and is more environmentally friendly, which is very important. does the european commission intend to take measures to promote, encourage and support organic fish farming? and if he is thinking of taking such measures, could you tell us what they would be and how we could support this very important issue that we want to promote?
member of the commission. − with regard to the question concerning the increasing demand, there is undoubtedly an increase, an exponential growth, in consumption of aquaculture products, seafood and farmed fish and this is certainly welcome because, as we all know, fish stocks in various community waters and worldwide are over-fished. we have reached a situation where in the short to medium term it is impossible to envisage that there will be an increase in catches and therefore the increase in demand has to be met from increased production of farmed fish. having said that, this in itself can create problems with regard to special considerations, as was indicated in my response, and also problems with regard to the supply of fishmeal, since fishmeal itself is based very much on the catch of lower-quality, industrial fish, stocks of which are also being exploited at significantly high levels. as regards organic aquaculture, we are ourselves encouraging its development. the exercise that we have carried out in the public consultation process has indicated the need to further develop organic means of production and we are looking at ways and means to ensure that in the communication, in the package which will be coming forward later, there will be specific reference to organic aquaculture: to how we can help promote it further and what sort of measures, such as eco-labelling schemes, can be taken so as to increase consumer awareness that it makes sense to eat organic products. we hope in this way to facilitate further the development of this important industry.
member of the commission. − on the question of the provenance of fish, i would like to point out two facts. first of all, with regard to fish caught in the wild which often then end up in the processing chain – fish that are caught in the wild by third countries in particular, but also by our own fishermen – we are in the process of adopting a regulation in order to curb illegal fishing activities. this in itself will strengthen our regime considerably, so that any fish that is illegally caught will not be permitted to enter the community market, either in its original state or after processing. that is one aspect of it. with regard to aquaculture, we are looking at ways and means of ensuring that aquaculture fish that are imported into the community meet the required health standards and requirements, so that our consumers can be guaranteed that the product that they are eating meets the levels of health protection that we apply to our own products. that is something which dg sanco is looking into, and there is also a certification scheme in order to certify that products that enter the community market conform to the required health standards. on a question also connected with all this, it is important to underline that we are looking at the possibility of eco-labelling aquaculture products, as i said before. at first the discussion concentrated only on eco-labelling of fish caught in the wild because the parameters are different. there, the main scope of eco-labelling is to guarantee that fish are sustainably caught and therefore if fish being sold are fish which are over-exploited, they should not benefit from any eco-labelling. with eco-labelling of aquaculture fish the parameters are different, so here the basis should be other reasons, such as the fact that the fish are bred in conditions which meet certain environmental, health and sanitary standards. we are looking at the parameters and obviously we will be coming back to parliament later with proposals aimed at introducing or facilitating the introduction of, or establishing minimum criteria for the operation of, voluntary eco-labelling schemes in this regard.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank mr crowley for his question, which gives me the opportunity to address the question of the follow-up to the judgment of the court of first instance of 13 june 2006 concerning ireland’s request for increase in capacity for fishing vessels on grounds of safety improvements. the commission decided not to lodge an appeal against the judgment of the court of first instance of 13 june 2006. the court had stated that there was insufficient analysis of all relevant matters in the commission’s decision of 4 april 2003. following this judgment, the commission opted to adopt new decisions based on a fuller analysis and providing clearer findings for each of the cases in question. it is correct to say that the applicants are still awaiting the new decisions by the commission. it must be noted, however, that the commission services have asked ireland to send specific additional technical information in for all the requests for increase in capacity. despite reminders, ireland sent such information only for a few of the requests. the lack of complete answers by ireland has delayed this new assessment. the commission is now finalising the new and thorough assessment of each of these requests. it expects to inform ireland of its results in july of this year.
member of the commission. − the decision of the court of first instance did not, as such, establish that the applicants were right in substance but that the commission had taken a decision which was based on an insufficient analysis of all the relevant matters. as a result of the fact that the decision that we took was not based on solid enough grounds, we required ireland to provide us with additional information so that we would be able to base our decision on a more solid basis. because the first decision was taken with regard to all operators as a whole, we have asked for individual information to be provided on the individual operators. our forthcoming decision will relate to each individual operator. if no further information has been provided with regard to particular operators, i do not envisage that there will be a change in the commission’s position. where there is additional information, we are assessing that, and if, on evaluation, we see that that merits being upheld, then it will be upheld. if we see that, notwithstanding the additional information, that does not merit being upheld, our decision would still be negative.
member of the commission. − i am aware that the market for certain fish and shellfish products has dropped recently in ireland and elsewhere in the community. i am informed that this question principally relates to the price of lobsters which normally would exceed eur 15 per kilogram at first sale in ireland but has now dropped to eur 10 per kilogram. in the specific case of lobsters the trade figures show an upward trend in imports in 2006 and 2007 as compared with the previous six years. total community imports from canada increased by 12% in 2006, compared with the reference period 2000-2005 and 7% in 2007; in the case of the united states imports increased by 27% in 2006 and 26% in 2007 versus the same reference period. yet there are very few direct imports of lobsters into ireland from the united states or canada; a total of 2.5 tonnes and 118 tonnes, respectively, in 2006. this does not mean, however, that north american lobsters have not reached ireland via other member states. the price in euro has not declined over the past three years. the average import price for the us in the period 2005-2007 was eur 12.45 per kilogram; for the first quarter of 2008 the price actually rose slightly to eur 13.6 per kilogram. in the case of canadian lobster imports to the community the price has risen slightly for the past three years and the average for 2005-2007 was eur 12.12 per kilogram. for the first quarter of 2008 the prices actually rose to eur 12.48 reflecting a strong canadian dollar. given the above, it would not appear that the current drop in the price of lobsters is strongly linked to imports from north america. the drop may well be due to uncertainty on the market due to protests in certain member states in recent weeks. because of the decline of sterling versus the euro it is also possible that irish producers are facing competition from uk lobsters in the traditional continental markets. there are no provisions under the common organisation of the market to compensate producers for a fall in the price of lobster. however, lobster producers could set up producers’ organisations in order to strengthen their position in the market. the european fisheries fund provides financial support for the creation of these organisations as well as for the implementation of plans to improve the quality of products. for further action in the medium to longer term, aid is available under the european fisheries fund for collective action to promote fisheries products such as lobster which could help in attracting higher demand and better prices.
member of the commission. − the problem concerning the huge increase in the cost of oil and its impact on fishers is very specific and very particular – i would say almost unique – when it comes to fisheries. this is because we have a combination of factors that impact the fishers very negatively. on the one hand the cost of fuel as a percentage of the total earnings of a fisher can go up as high as to represent 50-60% of his total earnings. in particular this would relate to distance operators because of the huge journeys that they have to undertake and also with regard to specific fishing activities like beam trawlers that consume a lot of fuel. apart from that, there is also the fact that fishers cannot, because of certain market constraints, pass on down the line the increasing cost to further operators involved in the marketing of fish products. this in essence means that the increase in cost is actually borne by the fisher himself. adding to that, there are various measures that we have introduced in order to regain sustainable fishing, and that means that the fisher cannot try to improve his performance by catching more, because if he catches more, he creates further pressures on fish stocks which would then be, in the long term, counterproductive. so fishers are faced with this enormous problem. today, in actual fact, i have presented to the college an information note on what we consider to be the way forward in order to engage with fishers in the very short term in a way whereby we give them assistance with a view to restructuring the whole sector and addressing the specific concerns of different fishers. in this information note we have outlined a number of specific measures that we can propose. member states would be in a position to decide with their own fishers which of those measures would be best suited for the realities faced by the particular fishers. whether this could be available to lobster fishers and to what extent – one would need to look into it. however, i have been authorised by the college to move forward on this. i will be presenting these details – the basics of what we will be proposing in the very short term – to council on tuesday next week in luxembourg. i will then be going back to the college with the details of the changes that need to be affected to the european fisheries fund regulation and other measures that we are looking into, the possibility for example concerning de minimis. i will then go back to the council, hopefully as early as july, with the proposals adopted by the commission so that – depending on the speed that both council and parliament would be prepared to take this – we would have the necessary measures in place hopefully in a question of a few months.
member of the commission. − i understand that fisheries did also play a role in the ‘no’ vote, particularly because, if one looks at the results in the various irish counties, the results were particularly negative in the western coastal areas, where the majority of fisheries in ireland are based. we have been aware of the fact that the community measures seeking to restore sustainable fisheries are affecting fishermen and impacting on their livelihood. the cost of fuel certainly did not help. we have been trying to address this in a number of ways, including by trying to highlight the uses of the european fisheries fund in order to create more awareness of what the situation is. i myself have been to ireland on a couple of occasions to talk directly to the fishermen. we have formed regional advisory councils. in the areas around ireland in particular we have the north western waters regional advisory council, and the north sea regional advisory council, in which the fishermen themselves take part in discussions which will lead up to decisions that we are required to take in december. notwithstanding all this, in spite of all the efforts made, my guess is that the irish fishermen’s vote in the referendum was substantially significantly negative.
member of the commission. - madam president, small and mediumsized enterprises represent 99% of european companies. it is therefore obvious that without their participation no environmental policy can be effective. smes face greater difficulties in complying with environmental legislation, but also in reaping the benefits of higher environmental performance. they often lack the information, expertise, human and financial resources needed to address environmental problems, risks and impacts. the commission has therefore set up a programme to help smes comply with environmental legislation. in view of the complex problems of smes, the ecap programme proposes a number of actions: firstly, improvement and simplification of legislation and its application. the aim is to reduce administrative burden and free up resources so that smes can better focus on complying with environmental legislation. secondly, more accessible and tailored environmental management systems for smes, so that environmental concerns can be economically integrated into core business activities. thirdly, targeted financial assistance to promote initiatives undertaken by public authorities or business support networks aimed at sustainable production. there are other measures included in this action plan, whereby the commission seeks not only to ensure that smes comply with production legislation, but also to help them take advantage of the economic opportunities arising from better environmental performance, such as energy savings and improved resource efficiency.
madam president, thank you, commissioner, for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have a question: what is the responsibility of public bodies to provide environmentally friendly infrastructure for smes and how much is this included in your plan?
member of the commission. - madam president, there are many possibilities for action and it is up to the member states to implement them. one activity is, for example, the establishment of local environmental expertise for smes to address the lack of know-how at enterprise level. it is a measure which the member states can promote. improved communication and more targeted information to address specific information gaps. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, in the new legislation which we are proposing for the revision of the carbon trading system, we have specific provisions for small and mediumsized enterprises, as we define them in this particular legislation, so that they are not burdened by being included in the trading system, should there be such a choice by the member state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's small and mediumsized enterprises are not exposed to international competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not in conformity with the treaty. would you agree with the idea of a green tax on imports from countries which are smugglers of the global consensus on environmental protection?
member of the commission. - madam president, in principle this is an issue which concerns not only small and mediumsized enterprises, but all enterprises which face this kind of competition not only for purely environmental issues but, as has been the subject of much discussion recently, also for the issue of the restrictions imposed and the resulting burden on european industries to limit greenhouse gas emissions. there has been a great deal of discussion recently, there are various views and my colleague, mr mandelson, has specifically expressed the commission's views on this matter.
member of the commission. - the madam president, this is an opportunity to say exactly where we are today in terms of negotiations. the work and reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, known as the ipcc, in november 2007, and the recognition by world leaders that collective action is urgently needed to tackle climate change, led to an agreement in bali last december - where the european union played a leading role - to start negotiations on the post-2012 climate change framework. the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change have agreed on the so-called bali roadmap. the roadmap sets out the agenda for the negotiations on four main issues. in particular, climate change mitigation, adaptation, given that climate change is already here to a certain point and will be inevitable by 2050, technologies and related financing for both adaptation and carbon mitigation. the parties also agreed to complete the negotiations by the end of 2009, ahead of the planned cop in copenhagen, to allow sufficient time for the ratification process of the future climate agreement to be completed by the end of 2012, when the first period of compliance with the obligations under the kyoto protocol expires. the agreement reached in bali took full account of the findings of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report. it is also recognised that drastic reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions will be needed to prevent the global temperature from rising to dangerous levels, which, according to this report, should not exceed 2 degrees celsius by 2050. work has already begun and four negotiating sessions are planned for this year - two of which have already taken place - in preparation for the conference of the parties in poznan. this year's conference of the parties will be particularly important in assessing the situation on the basis of which the negotiations themselves can be launched next year. the negotiating process will be particularly difficult, not only because of the complexity of the issues to be discussed, but also because of the time constraints imposed by the urgency of the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the progress made, albeit limited, will contribute to the successful outcome of the copenhagen conference of the parties. you are also aware that discussions are under way within the g8 and the major economies process initiated by the united states. the european union is actively involved in the negotiations of the united nations framework convention on climate change with a view to influencing them positively. at the same time, it sends a clear message that developed countries will continue to lead by example and that they are committed to further reductions in line with their historical responsibilities and in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. it is clear that achieving a comprehensive and ambitious agreement on climate change beyond 2012 is one of the greatest challenges for global environmental governance. however, we are not starting from scratch. i should like to say that the french minister for the environment, energy and transport, a few days ago, described the copenhagen conference as the most likely agreement on the future of the world. we need to build on the evidence we already have, namely the united nations framework convention and the kyoto protocol, under which modern means of implementation have already been developed, such as the clean development mechanism, two flexible mechanisms, and the scientific expertise of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, the ipcc. the negotiations - i repeat - will be difficult, but with the necessary political will and a common sense of urgency we will be able to reach an agreement in copenhagen. common sense dictates the copenhagen agreement, and with the work that the european union is doing and with the support that we have from public opinion in europe, but also with global awareness and with the particular support of the european parliament and with agreement by the end of the year on the package of measures that we have proposed, which will strengthen the negotiating power of the european union, we will be able to reach an agreement in copenhagen that will effectively tackle climate change.
madam president, i thank commissioner dimas for his detailed and comprehensive reply. will the united states of america join in? will china play along? climate change also reflects a reality of 'cause versus effect'. the question therefore arises of the union's position in the event of countries with high ecological debt not participating in the global regulatory consultation for the post-kyoto period. and the primary cost is self-evident. the secondary cost - i am referring here to estimates by your colleague mr verheugen - would be the tendency for european companies to relocate to countries with a flexible environment protection framework. do you agree with that kind of assessment?
member of the commission. - the madam president, not only mr verheugen, but i myself am very much interested in the principle of avoiding what is called 'carbon leakage' for the simple reason that if companies move from the european union to countries which do not have carbon emission restrictions, then the environmental result i expect will not be achieved. the problem of energy-intensive firms is therefore primarily an environmental one and therefore the kind of competitiveness problem which would encourage them to relocate should not be created. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the energy sector. if such an agreement is not reached - and i do not believe that the world will be led to such an absurd decision - then we have all the provisions in the proposed legislation for the revision of the carbon trading system to restore the competitiveness of industries which will be exposed to international competition. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected against the risks associated with asbestos. but - i repeat - what we have to do and what we have to work for is to reach an agreement. and i believe that both with the united states, especially with the new administration that is expected to take over from next year, since both candidates are fully committed to introducing a carbon trading system, but also to reducing emissions by 80% by 2050 and to effectively combating the greenhouse effect and working with the european union, together we will be able to convince those who may have different views on this issue, and with the cooperation of countries, like china, which fully understands the problems that are being created for its own citizens by the greenhouse effect and which has accepted its own effort that is not to increase the rate of greenhouse gases, but to reduce them, we will be able to have an agreement at the end of 2009 that is similar to that of developed countries, but it is not a deal at the end of 2009. i believe in this agreement and i believe that all of us here - the european parliament has played a huge role - and with your continued support we will achieve such an agreement.
madam president, i understand that we give each commissioner 20 minutes. i have timed it, mr deimas and his colleagues have not used half of it. i therefore ask that question no 33 be answered in accordance with what we have decided. i am sure that the commissioner will have no objection.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the european commission, by lifting the ban on imports of chicken from the united states of america, is once again demonstrating that it puts the interests of multinational food companies above the health of the people and the workers. for decades the united states has been pushing for the introduction of hormone-laden meats. now they're pushing for the chickens. the ban in previous years was based on the dangers of chlorine and bathing chickens, because the scientific community said it was dangerous to the health of consumers, to the health of workers in slaughterhouses and to waste that left residues with carcinogens. it is obvious that the substances used by the united states have not ceased to be carcinogenic, nor has the scientific community changed its mind. the question is therefore what led the commission to give in to the pressure of the united states and the multinationals and what is the reward for this change in its position. the food chain is increasingly under the stranglehold of multinational food companies. the european commission, just a few days after the scandal of the use of sunflower oil in foodstuffs and the revelation that legislation allows the transport of oils in the same tankers as those used to transport liquids that are dangerous to health, did not hesitate to announce the lifting of the ban on the import of chlorinated chickens. food scandals are one after another. the european union gives the controlled the responsibility of the controller by relinquishing its own responsibilities, as do the national governments of the states, and passing them on to consumers on the grounds that they have the right to choose as long as the products have labels. workers demand controlled and healthy food at affordable prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ban on chlorinated chickens is lifted.
mr president, the experts from the member states of the european union were almost unanimous in their opposition to the commission's proposal to lift the ban on the importation of chlorinated poultry. the introduction of these products, even under the conditions proposed by the commission, is contrary to the long-standing demand of european citizens for safe, high-quality and nutritious products. the european poultry sector has made significant investments in compliance with the strict union regulatory framework applicable to the entire food chain, i.e. from production to distribution. the question therefore arises, among other things, of the competitiveness of the european industry concerned. we know that the commission's proposal expresses its commitment to the american side in the context of the transatlantic economic council. as a member of the committee on international trade i am in favour of first of all the settlement of disputes with our trading partners. but i cannot accept solutions which endanger the health of citizens and alter the european food model. this applies both to the case we are discussing and to the pending euro-atlantic dispute before the wto on the importation of genetically modified organisms. the union must maintain strict food quality, hygiene and safety standards. we oppose their deforestation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive. we therefore call on the council to maintain the ban on the importation of chlorinated poultry.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council following the referendum in ireland.
in writing. – in these times of crisis and institutional uncertainty i feel i must praise the treaty of lisbon. i do not know if it will ever enter into force, but if one wanted to avoid populism he should say that it is a good treaty. of course it was not as democratically constructed and discussed as the constitutional treaty. of course it is not the perfect text – there is no perfect text. of course it is too complex – but which european treaty is not? people who say they do not understand it in fact show they have no confidence in their leaders. but it is a text that advances democracy in europe. it would make europe more open, efficient and socially sensitive. one simple example: were it in force, were the charter of fundamental rights in force, the court of justice could not have taken the viking and laval decisions, which are so detrimental for workers. so we need more europe, not less. more democracy. more politics. as socialists, we now have the duty to go before the people and explain what kind of new and different europe we want.
in writing. the irish people's resounding 'oxi' has rendered the 'lisbon treaty' ineffective. the council, the european commission and the european parliament, together with the centre-right and centre-left governments in the eu member states - the nd and pasok in our country - and more generally the representatives of capital, who took the lead in overturning the vote on the 'euro-constitution' by the people of france and the netherlands and in halting the growing movement to question and reject the 'lisbon treaty', the eu itself, suffered a significant defeat. these same political forces are the ones who make up the grand alliance in the council, the european commission and the european parliament of the eu - the people's party, the social democrats, the liberals, the greens and other supporters of the european path - with the participation of the new democracy and pasok meps, who during the european parliament plenary session on 20 february 2008 voted against both the proposal to respect the verdict of the irish people and to hold referendums on the "lisbon treaty" in the member states. the policy of the council and the european commission to push ahead with the ratification of the 'lisbon treaty' is an authoritarian act of disregard for the will of the irish people and the people in general.
ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the president, i have the honour and pleasure of welcoming to the european parliament, on the occasion of the european year of intercultural dialogue, the united nations special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, dr asma jahangir. our parliament attaches particular importance to this year of intercultural dialogue and offers, through a series of events and initiatives, a forum for the exchange of ideas between citizens from different cultures and communities and between citizens with different religions and beliefs. during the year we have already invited political and religious leaders from all over the world, not just to address us, but to offer parliament as a space for communication and dissemination of a common message, as a space for promoting genuine free dialogue and mutual understanding. it is with particular pleasure that i welcome you, dr jahangir, to address the plenary on these issues which are vital to world peace and development. as part of our joint mission to promote democracy and human rights, we have been following events in your country, pakistan, closely, and during your detention last year, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for your immediate release. and for that very reason we are particularly happy to have you here with us today. your visit is particularly significant at this time for another reason. this year we are also celebrating the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, adopted by the united nations general assembly on 10 december 1948. this declaration ushered in a new era in a world that was just emerging from the throes of the worst war in history, a war that began in europe. the declaration set forth the first universal and formal commitment to the dignity and equality of all people, regardless of color, creed or origin. article 18 of the declaration states that: everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. this right includes freedom to change one's religion or belief, and freedom to manifest one's religion or belief, alone or in association with others, in public or in private, by teaching, practicing, worshipping and holding religious ceremonies. your task as un special rapporteur is to identify existing or potential future obstacles to the exercise of this right and to propose ways and measures to address and overcome them. in your reports you stress the importance of continuing and intensifying dialogue with communities of different religions or beliefs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. you stress in particular the need for the broad participation of women in order to promote greater tolerance, respect and mutual understanding. the european parliament has stressed in many of its resolutions that women play a vital role in promoting dialogue and peace, as was also emphasized at the conference we organised on the occasion of international women's day. you yourself have taken part in many conferences to promote dialogue, for example in the framework of the alliance of cultures, and you have taken many initiatives to give women a greater role. you also underlined the role of education as a key factor in conflict prevention, teaching respect for and acceptance of pluralism and diversity in the field of religion or belief, thereby contributing to the spread and implementation of human rights in all societies. what you are advocating is in line with the motto of the european year of intercultural dialogue 'diversity unites us' and with the leading role given to activities that promote knowledge, respect and tolerance of different beliefs. this meeting today is a celebration. but for those who wish to continue the debate with you, there will be a special meeting tomorrow morning, organized by the subcommittee on human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre and the right)
united nations special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief. − madam president, distinguished members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, it is a great honour and an immense pleasure to be here with you today. i would like to very warmly thank the president, hans-gert pöttering, for having invited me to address the european parliament. i must also thank you for the support that you have given me, both as a un special rapporteur and, personally, when i was a prisoner last year. your decision to designate 2008 as the european year of intercultural dialogue and develop various related initiatives is indeed timely and very important. the history of europe has been shaped by many positive instances of intercultural dialogue. however, a lack of such constructive dialogue is also noticeable, for example when we remind ourselves of the religious wars or the ghettoisation of certain believers in the middle ages. in my speech i would like to share with you some thoughts, mainly on interreligious dialogue, based on the experience i have gained in the past four years as the united nations special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief. i would like to raise four questions, basically with regard to the what, why, who and how of intercultural dialogue. let us start with the first question: what do we mean by intercultural dialogue? already the terminology seems to be tricky: does ‘intercultural’ also include ‘interreligious’ dialogue? of course, i would answer this question in the affirmative, since religions are part of culture. at the same time, ‘intra-religious’ tensions also need to be adequately addressed. consequently, intercultural dialogue should also take the believers of different denominations of the various religions on board and their ideas into account. what about dialogue between theistic, non-theistic and atheistic believers? all of these believers are protected under international human rights law, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief. so, in my opinion, these dimensions should also be included in initiatives of intercultural dialogue. at the level of the united nations there are further terms, such as the alliance of civilizations or ‘international year for the rapprochement of cultures 2010’. these titles avoid the often contentious word ‘religion’, but they are very much designed to foster interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace. so ‘intercultural dialogue’ could be seen as a comprehensive term, including the various dimensions mentioned earlier on: interreligious dialogue and intra-religious approaches, also when they involve atheistic non-believers. i very much like the way the european parliament and the council have described the goals of intercultural dialogue in their decision no 1983/2006/ec, which established the european year ‘to strengthen respect for cultural diversity and deal with the complex reality in our societies and the coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs. furthermore, it is important to highlight the contribution of different cultures to the member states’ heritage and way of life and to recognise that culture and intercultural dialogue are essential for learning to live together in harmony.’ more importantly, the state must abide by policies and develop its governance skills to include diverse interests. both government and civil society have a role in creating an environment where people of various religions and beliefs can effortlessly interact. as such, the concept of intercultural dialogue must be broadened. this leads me to the second question: why is intercultural dialogue important? i am convinced that maintaining an intercultural dialogue is of the utmost importance in order to overcome sectarian and intransigent attitudes and to enhance religious tolerance all over the world. apart from education, interreligious dialogue constitutes one of the principal means of preventing misunderstandings, conflicts and violations in the area of freedom of religion or belief. if conducted successfully, intercultural dialogue can indeed promote tolerance, respect and understanding. although cultures and religions may be quite different, there is no justification for saying that, because they are different, they do not have equal status. while a vast number of people, regardless of their religion or belief, adhere to universal values, there have always been individuals who try to prove that their culture, their religion, their language or their history is superior to that of their neighbours. my predecessor as united nations special rapporteur, professor abdelfattah amor from tunisia, has already asked if there is anything that people have not done throughout history ‘in the name of religion’. nevertheless, religions share many moral values which could and should make it possible for them to come to a common understanding of respect. during my country visits i have seen how beneficial efforts to engage in interreligious dialogue can be. at the same time, the absence of such a dialogue may be an early-warning sign for forthcoming interreligious tensions and conflict. it is evident that dialogue alone does not solve the underlying problems; it may, rather, be a first step in the right direction. interreligious dialogue should not only be an intellectual and theological exercise, it can also activate the silent majority to look for a common strategy on how to find harmony and peace. there are true success stories of interreligious dialogue; however, the grass-root efforts rarely make headlines in the media – unlike interreligious violence. let me share with you two experiences from my recent fact-finding missions, which demonstrate that interlocutors do not have to go far in order to conduct a meaningful dialogue. during my visit to israel and the occupied palestinian territory, i was informed of various interfaith meetings where israeli and palestinian residents come together and do not let recent political events hamper their dialogue. one ngo reported: ‘both israelis and palestinians spoke of frustration and despair about the extreme attitudes in each society and the reluctance of the majority to work together non-violently to find solutions. both spoke of the need to hear the other side acknowledge their own violence and express regret.’ furthermore, in northern ireland i witnessed the importance of interreligious dialogue in the neighbourhoods: in belfast there are many initiatives at the grass-root level that bring together people from different political and religious backgrounds, some of them living next to each other but partitioned by the so-called ‘peace lines’. this brings us to the third question: who should be involved in intercultural dialogue? the millennium world peace summit, held in new york in august 2000, brought together over 1 000 religious and spiritual leaders. in their final commitment to global peace they emphasised that no real peace could be achieved unless all communities acknowledged the cultural and religious diversity of the human family in a spirit of mutual respect and understanding. such meetings of religious leaders are important, but, at the same time, interreligious dialogue at the grass-root levels should also be encouraged and nurtured. in my opinion, exchanges of views should, if possible, also include believers who are dispassionate about their faith, as well as atheistic and non-theistic believers and members of religious minorities. any dialogue would also greatly benefit from the perspectives of women, who tend to be marginalised in major events of interreligious dialogue. women are one of the worst sufferers of religious intolerance, yet i noticed that women’s groups across religious lines have been very effective human rights advocates in situations of communal tensions. sometimes it may also be useful to have present people of the same faith with contrasting opinions. one good example from my recent visit to the united kingdom is a roundtable discussion in london which also dealt with legislation against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and statutory exceptions to organisations relating to religion or belief. that discussion would have been completely different without the participation of members of the lesbian and gay christian movement. artists may also play an important role in public education regarding religious tolerance and in building bridges between different communities. one good example is the west-eastern divan orchestra, which is composed of young israeli, palestinian, lebanese, syrian, jordanian and egyptian musicians. its founder and conductor, daniel barenboim, described the humanitarian idea of this orchestra as follows: ‘we don’t see ourselves as a political project, but rather as a forum where young people from israel and all arab countries can express themselves freely and openly whilst at the same time hearing the narrative of the other. it is not necessarily a question of accepting the narrative of the other, let alone agreeing with it, but rather the indispensable need to accept its legitimacy.’ my most recent visit to india, however, has also shown how vulnerable even artists feel vis-à-vis mob pressure on the streets. the visual arts industry there has played an important role in public education regarding religious tolerance. however, some bollywood films have effectively been banned by non-state actors through intimidation. regrettably, professionals of the audiovisual arts industry seem to routinely seek the approval of self-appointed custodians of religious sentiments before going ahead with a film which touches upon communal issues. this shows how important the artist’s contribution to intercultural dialogue is – or at least could be. journalists and lawyers can also make a difference, especially when their statements and actions transcend religious lines. there are innumerable examples where individuals have come to each other’s rescue, crossing all religious boundaries. furthermore – and more importantly – politicians would need to undertake a joint brainstorming on how to address the new challenges in a world that is getting even more globalised. such brainstorming could eventually lead to concrete actions with regard to mainstreaming diversity, for example in housing projects, school curricula and nominations to statutory bodies. finally, i would like to raise the fourth question: how can intercultural dialogue be conducted effectively? there are different levels of intercultural dialogue: international and regional organisations such as the un, eu and oic can play a role in facilitating platforms for intercultural dialogue. furthermore, ngos are currently proposing to advance the culture of peace through dialogue and cooperation between individuals and communities of diverse religions and beliefs through a un decade of interreligious dialogue and cooperation for peace, possibly to run from 2011 to 2020. in this regard it seems vital to have a multitude of good initiatives at global, regional, national or local levels. let me highlight that it is also possible to use old, new and creative means of communication to establish intercultural dialogue at low cost, for example through penfriend programmes in schools or via internet chats on specific topics, street theatre and puppet shows. the eu’s lifelong learning programmes can – and already do – serve as perfect platforms for intercultural and interreligious dialogue. the various programmes are indeed examples of good practice: comenius seeks to develop understanding of and between various european cultures through exchanges and cooperation between schools in different countries; more than 1.5 million students have already participated in the higher education exchange programme erasmus; the leonardo da vinci scheme funds transnational mobility in vocational education and training; the grundtvig programme provides new learning opportunities, especially for adults at risk of social exclusion and for older workers; and, finally, the jean monnet network is stimulating teaching, research and reflection on european integration at higher education institutions throughout the world. let me emphasise how important it is for the european union to reach out to the whole world, especially in the framework of intercultural dialogue. the role of educational institutions is vital. they could either inculcate a spirit of tolerance or promote tensions, even at an early age. therefore, the emphasis must lie on enlightened education that teaches children to recognise the diversity that exists. there is a significant potential of voluntary school exchanges with other countries, both in europe and elsewhere. in this regard i would like to refer to the 2001 international consultative conference on school education in relation to freedom of religion or belief, tolerance and non-discrimination. it adopted by consensus the madrid final document, which recommended that teachers and students are provided with voluntary opportunities for meetings and exchanges with their counterparts of different religions or beliefs. the family is another entry point where open-mindedness can either be hampered or nurtured, very much depending on individual upbringing. furthermore, mixed marriages – quite naturally – give new perspectives and may facilitate intercultural or interreligious dialogue. in my opinion it is important to start at an early age with getting acquainted with the approaches of your neighbours or of other religions. this would not necessarily need to involve long-distance travel, but, for example, could be organised by setting foot and meeting people at your local church, mosque, synagogue, temple or other places of worship. the size of the groups – especially for grass-root interfaith meetings – should not be too big, in order to give the interlocutors an opportunity to speak and to get to know each other personally. however, there are several potential risks to intercultural dialogue: if not properly conducted, it may turn out to be a superficial, vague and ineffective exercise. furthermore, intercultural dialogue can also be used as a tool for emphasising the evil sides of the ‘other’. participants may feel tempted to convince their interlocutors of the superiority of their religion or culture. concerning the possible substance of dialogue, there is also a fundamental question to be answered: should the participants also ask about their respective religions and theological approaches, or would this be dangerous? a positive aspect would be that the interlocutors can become aware of similar approaches but also of differences. however, these differences may be interpreted as sensitive or even offensive. just think of a discussion focusing on contentious issues such as: who was the last prophet? did god have a son? are religious leaders infallible? what are you supposed to eat or not to? is there reincarnation? a tempting alternative might be to look only for non-contentious topics which are not at all related to theology, for example to discuss common environmental concerns. but these topics may be difficult to find and could be quite boring and, ultimately, such an approach would defeat the purpose of a real intercultural and interreligious dialogue. i do not think that it would help to add a layer of ‘religious correctness’ to the existing approach of political correctness. you sometimes hear from diplomats that we must not engage in criticising religions other than our own. however, i would like to ask: does dialogue exclude the possibility of criticising the tenets of other religions? in my opinion, in a true dialogue one of the options should also be that the interlocutors ultimately may agree to disagree, obviously while still respecting each other’s views and approaches. (applause) if somebody wants to criticise their counterpart’s religion, it is, of course, advisable do so in an informed manner and to weigh one’s words carefully. furthermore, it may also help if mutual trust has already been established between the various groups. i firmly believe, however, that it would be wrong to follow the approach of protecting religions per se rather than individuals or groups of believers, as affirmed by international human rights standards. (applause)on many occasions i have voiced concerns that criminalising so-called defamation of religions can be counterproductive, since it may create an atmosphere of intolerance and fear and may even increase the chances of a backlash. accusations of defamation of religion might stifle legitimate criticism or even research on practices and laws appearing to be in violation of human rights that are – or at least are perceived to be – sanctioned by religion. finally, i believe that the rule of law and the functioning of democratic institutions are prerequisites for the establishment of a favourable climate which would be conducive to real dialogue and understanding. people need to have trust in the system, and thus diversity within institutions may contribute to creating such an environment. intercultural dialogue should not be imposed or be designed in a condescending way. the policies of states in this regard should give room and space for the variety of religions and beliefs, thus creating natural opportunities for interaction and understanding. these are my ideas on the what, why, who and how of intercultural dialogue. i am afraid that, rather than providing comprehensive answers, i may have raised a number of new issues. in my observations i have already alluded to the potential – but also to possible pitfalls – of intercultural dialogue. it seems crucial to institutionalise an intercultural dialogue at various levels in the right format and with a wide selection of participants, while still allowing for a real exchange of views. i think that joint declarations and statements by religious leaders are important; however, i would like to take this opportunity to emphasise the vital role of grass-root initiatives, concrete meetings and joint actions. i also believe that it is better to have a war of words than to have tensions that are long-lasting. when average, theistic, atheistic and non-theistic believers get together, some of them perhaps for the first time ever, they – hopefully – learn a lot from each other, even if they finally disagree on substantive issues. universal values should serve as a bridge between different religions and beliefs, and i do not accept the fact that universal values of human rights can be and should be subservient to either social or religious norms. (applause)this may, ultimately, also lead to the reinforcement of universal human rights, both in terms of promoting and protecting human rights and freedoms. in conclusion i would like to cite boutros boutros-ghali, the former un secretary-general, who said: ‘human rights, when viewed from a universal perspective, force us to face the most demanding of all dialectics: the dialectics of identity and otherness, of “self” and “the other”. they teach us, in the most direct way, that we are, at one and the same time, the same and different.’ (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
dr. jahangir, thank you very much for your speech. we have listened very carefully to what you have said, because it comes from respect for human rights, from your rich experience and from the content of your important work. i hope that your visit to the european parliament will give us the opportunity to work more closely together in our common mission for democracy, peace and development.
mr president, i would like to ask, pursuant to rule 150 (5), that the amendment be retained on the voting list, since it has the support of 40 members of this house.
in writing. the conservative majority in the european parliament has once again ignored the voices of the people and common sense. adoption of the 'shame directive' aimed at a fortress europe, depriving migrants of basic human rights and condemning them to a life of illegality. the council's scandalous and inhumane compromise is contrary to the existing international legal framework. the assurances of greater protection for migrants in europe are in stark contrast to the dismal picture of reception centres in the united states, which are often the most dangerous place in the world for refugees. " europe cannot take refuge behind this unacceptable legislation, closing the door to immigrants. the government and the new democracy meps who actively supported today's decision have a great responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly elected president of the european parliament, mr karamanlis, is able to speak in public and to make his views known to the public.
in writing. the commission's package of five proposals in the third legislative package is preparing to complete the takeover of electricity and gas markets in the eu by big business. the aim is to convert a social good into a market product and to promote capitalist restructuring in the energy sector through massive privatisations of energy production and distribution. the proposal imposes extreme competition, especially in the wholesale energy market, requires the complete separation of networks (transmission systems or transmission management systems) from supply and production and the principle of non-discrimination between the public and private sectors, so that public undertakings lose their comparative advantages and ensure that competitors enter the market. at a time when international oil prices are rising rapidly and punctuality is plaguing workers, the eu is promoting the interests of capital, safeguarding and increasing its profits. the victims of this policy are the energy workers, in general the lower classes, who will face price increases and a degradation of services as has happened everywhere where the energy market has been privatised. the mass mobilizations of workers and the tremors of the people in referendums show the growth of popular indignation against this policy and pave the way for its overthrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i am sorry, but the positions of both the council and the commission have been disappointing. words and words and words. no specific measures. it is not surprising, then, that the votes in ireland, france and the netherlands are 'no'. do not be surprised that in countries like belgium, where protests are rare, thousands of people are demonstrating. the word 'profit' was not heard by either the president of the council or the commissioner. what are we gonna do about the speculation? why don't you pay your taxes? why not propose, in a european coordination, national taxation and a share of this revenue to be used to promote renewable energy sources, clean energy and energy saving programmes? and one more thing, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission. the increase in the price of oil also benefits the public purse, because the tax collected by the member states increases proportionately. and inflation, to be precise, particularly hits the poorest social strata. the inflation rate of the poor is 40-50% higher than the general inflation rate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that in your final speeches you will explain why you were so quick to reject proposals put forward by governments belonging to the family of the right, like mr sarkozy's, and not to the family of the left. do you think mr. sarkozy is too communist ? if anything comes out of this crisis with the speculation in food and oil prices is that neoliberal dogmatism is ending. we expect you to understand that, too.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner and the president. the last five years have seen the effects of the increase in the price of fuel on fisheries. since 2004, the price of fuel has increased 240%. the commission and the european parliament are adopting measures to deal with the problem, but so far the situation has not improved. on the contrary, it got worse. since the beginning of 2008 we have had an increase of 40%. many fishermen, french, italian, portuguese, greek, spanish, began to tie up their boats. why are they tying them up? because the cost of catching is more than the price they sell their fish for. i am worried, and i am deeply concerned, because i am afraid that it will be dismantled, that it will affect a social group which is respecting traditions, which is a nice social group, and i am referring to our fishermen. we must save them from this coming disaster. we have to take action. i agree with all the measures mentioned by my colleagues, measures to combat illegal fishing and all that, and i would like to add my support. but i also want to add something very important. the european fisheries fund must be activated, resources must be secured and with this money we must help our fishermen to survive. otherwise we're gonna have some very difficult days.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the uncontrolled rise in fuel prices we are seeing a movement developing, but also a cry of protest and despair from the fishermen of many member states. we can no longer remain passive observers of these dynamic mobilizations. it is necessary for the european union to take immediate action to provide relief to this profession, which is being tested without having any other options or means of dealing with it. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere speculator, but must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and i think your proposals are in the right direction.
the chairman of the council. − the rules for the protection and assistance of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport are governed by the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. this regulation was adopted in 2006, parts of it have already started to apply in july 2007 and the remaining part will apply from july this year. i would stress that the european commission is responsible for monitoring the proper implementation of this regulation and can take appropriate measures. these may also include legal remedies to ensure that community law in this area is correctly applied. in short, therefore, the council is not competent to answer that question. however, i would like to stress that the european union is aware of the importance of the protection and assistance of disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. as can be seen in practice, the regulation i have mentioned is already being implemented and represents a significant facilitation for the travel of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
the chairman of the council. - as regards mr fernandez's supplementary question, i cannot, of course, rule out the possibility that something similar could also be introduced for the travel of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility at sea. of course, this is a matter for the commission to examine first and foremost, and then to come up with a proposal. but it's certainly an idea worth considering. that would be my response to such a thought. mr leichtfried mentioned the low-cost carriers. i would point out that the regulation i have mentioned, which relates to the facilitation of travel by air for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, applies to all carriers and there is no difference. of course, infringements will be treated equally, whether they are low-cost or other types of carriers.
the chairman of the council. - as regards immigration and undeclared work, during this mandate, that is, during our slovenian presidency, the presidency continued negotiations in the council and with the european parliament on a draft directive laying down sanctions against employers of third-country nationals residing illegally in the european union. this directive prohibits the employment of illegally staying third-country nationals, which is of course one of the means of combating illegal immigration. to that end, the directive lays down minimum common sanctions and measures to be applied by member states against employers who employ third-country nationals who are present illegally on the territory of the member states. the council's competent bodies are currently continuing to examine the proposal, and close contacts have been established with the european parliament in order to reach a common position between the two institutions. the work is not yet done, but i can say that the presidency is pleased with the progress that has been made so far.
mr president, mr minister, thank you for your answer. it is known, however, that third-country nationals who enter european territory without documentary and legal proof, after being detained, provide services to various employers in order to secure the fees and the possibility of going to european countries where their right of residence will be recognized. how is the illegal provision of work dealt with when it is partially justified and secured?
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for these additional questions. first of all, to mr posselt's question whether all this means that the candidate countries - whether croatia or any other - do not need to change their legislation on same-sex unions, abortion or euthanasia, the answer is yes. they don't need to. they do not need to do so, since the matter in question does not fall within the community's competence. in these cases, therefore, the legislation of the applicant country is not examined, since it is not a matter for the community to which the applicant wishes to accede. with regard to the charter of fundamental rights, to the supplementary question put by mrs harkin and mr mitchell, my answer is as follows: the treaty of lisbon contains an article which establishes the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights, which is a separate document. but nevertheless, i can state, here in this place, publicly, that the implementation of the lisbon treaty would not bring any obligations on the part of any member state on issues such as abortion, euthanasia and same-sex unions. these are matters outside the community's competence and this would not change with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. these matters, these issues, these areas would still remain the responsibility of the member states individually.
the chairman of the council. − the council is fully aware of the importance of the issue of agricultural and food prices on world markets. the presidency believes that a comprehensive approach is needed to address this problem, one that involves all relevant sectors, in order to ensure an effective and long-term political response by the european union. in view of the different aspects of this issue, we have recently organised a number of discussions in the relevant council configurations with a view to contributing to such comprehensive solutions. for example, on 19 may the council discussed in detail the factors affecting the ability of the agricultural sector to ensure an adequate food supply. in this respect, he pointed out that long-term trends in supply and demand should be examined. the debate, which aimed to contribute to a common and sustainable policy response by the european union, touched on all the main aspects relevant to the agricultural sector and the common agricultural policy. the council has already decided on a number of measures to alleviate pressure on food prices in the european union markets. these measures are also expected to have a positive impact on international markets. the council also adopted some rapid measures, such as the abolition of the compulsory powder requirement for 2008, the increase in milk quotas and the temporary suspension of import duties on cereals. in addition, the council will consider further measures in the context of the health review of the cap. these include the permanent abolition of the mandatory dust requirement, the phasing out of the milk quota system, the abolition of the current premiums for energy crops and their replacement to encourage the production of second generation biofuels i.e. biofuels produced from by-products and not competing with food production. at the end of may, the council focused on the development dimension of this problem and concluded that such situations, the current situation, place a heavy burden on developing countries, and in particular on the most vulnerable segments of society in these countries. at its meeting on 3 june, the council also examined the financial implications and possible solutions in the area of high food prices. he recalled the short-term measures already taken, particularly in the field of agriculture, and stressed the importance of strengthening the market orientation of agriculture, ensuring sustainable production of biofuels, and increasing the growth of medium- and long-term agricultural productivity in both europe and developing countries. the european council, which opens tomorrow, will also discuss the political consequences of high food prices. in conclusion, the question raised by mr papadimoulis has been on the council's agenda regularly in recent months and weeks.
mr president, mr president-in-office, you have read a diplomatic text with the familiar genealogy and wooden language of diplomats. i ask you: tomorrow at the summit, beyond wishful thinking, will you take any concrete measures and what about rules and regulations to limit speculation in fuel and food? will you support the lowest incomes? will you reconsider the continuing contraction of agricultural policy? and finally, the irish "no" a few days ago, do you think it's irrelevant to the precision and the everyday?
madam president, as the author of the resolution on this subject, which was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, i regret that i cannot accept mr bowis' proposal, because the oral amendment he proposes drastically weakens the substance of the text. i would ask those who agree with this to stand.
in writing. the commission must reconsider its original decision which was based solely on commercial criteria and resulted in a crime against public health and consumer protection. we cannot ignore the existing european legislation, making concessions to the americans and putting commercial interests above public health. we are waiting for the reactions of the commissioner responsible for health, mr vassiliou, and the reactions of the greek government.
mr president, a very brief remark on our programme for thursday: the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the commission has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. the socialist group, as far as i know, has only 18 minutes to speak. i imagine the president has very little, and the rest of us even less. the european parliament is the place where meps should speak and leaders should listen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, competition policy is the exclusive responsibility of the european commission. it is therefore surprising that the commission does not exercise this exclusive competence when the price of oil has risen by 50% since the beginning of the year. and why does it not do so at two levels: first, abroad, where there is an oil cartel which is clearly contributing to price formation which is hurting the weakest sections of the european population, and secondly at home, where there is another oil cartel which is also keeping prices high, as the profits of the oil companies remain bloated. i therefore call on the commissioner responsible for competition to exercise her powers exactly where the citizen expects her to do so: in her everyday life. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention and that of the french presidency to the european schools, which, while serving as models and models of european education, do not take any account of the learning difficulties of pupils (dyslexia, stuttering), with the result that many children are condemned because of these difficulties in their school progress and subsequently in their professional life. we have therefore both failure and abandonment of this school, and as a result their parents, who are our partners and employees of the european union, are also suffering. are forced to move in order to send their children to simple schools in member states which are sensitive to the special needs of children with learning difficulties, as required by law and human dignity, in particular the need to protect children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the elderly are not discriminated against.
mr president, i would like to raise once again from the podium of the european parliament a matter of concern to fishermen in my country, to fishermen in the mediterranean and to all those concerned about the environment. the greek fishermen, and all european fishermen, are subject to strict restrictions - and rightly so - as regards fishing methods, fishing gear, fishing time, etc. but third countries, with the turkish fishermen as a typical example, fish whenever they want, how they want and with whatever tools they want, with the result that fish stocks are being reduced, the seas are being degraded, the environment is being degraded. i think we should take initiatives towards turkey so that turkey also applies good fishing practices. the environment is above all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, a few days ago an article appeared in the new york times which said that an agreement was in the offing between the us government and the european commission, which would allow european governments, banks and companies established in the european union to transfer to us agencies information concerning european citizens, such as credit card transactions, travel information, emails and visits to websites, all in an effort to combat terrorism. under negotiation is the possibility for european citizens to be able to take legal action against the us government when they believe their individual rights are being violated by the use of their personal data. i call on the president and the members of the european parliament to investigate this matter and on the european commission to provide clarifications so that the house is informed of the purpose and nature of these talks. the european parliament has a duty to protect the individual rights and privacy of european citizens when they are violated.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the two main ones are that firstly the budget of the european union is not up to the needs and aspirations of the european union and secondly that this budget does not reflect the political priorities of the european union in the same way as the other institutions of the european union do. as for the first, what can we do? what does the report say? we are asking for an increase in the very low level of payment appropriations. we also ask, and this is very important, - it has been said, but i want to say it too - for the best possible use of the margins. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, we see that it does not reflect, as i said, the political priorities. i shall dwell on two examples. my colleagues have mentioned it, i'll say it: what has been the first problem of the european union at the moment, as we have seen in the past political year? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the amounts allocated from the budget to tackle this overall package of policy problems are very small. secondly, as many have said, foreign policy. now that europe is opening up, opening its wings, we are cutting back again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need political initiatives. and these political initiatives need communication and money.
madam president, commissioner, we are in the process of defining a clear negotiating mandate for the discussions we will have with the council next week. i understand why many of the colleagues who have spoken have pressed for specific additional efforts in their areas of competence (external relations, etc.), but i believe that this mandate, especially this year, must be limited to what citizens expect from the budget, not what many of us expect because of special interests or other interests. we must concentrate on the four things which i think are pressing on the people of europe today. and those four things are: accuracy, climate change, competitiveness and the environment. on these four cornerstones we must build the commandment; i think we're on the right track, but we have to keep an eye on this outline. i would like to say a few words about the idea that president barroso pulled out of his sleeve yesterday and which he presented to the g8 today or tomorrow, if i am not mistaken, on food security. it is an idea that we must look at, but we must look at it through the orthodox budgetary approach of the european union, that is, we as the budgetary authority discuss it with the council and we approve whether it will be put forward as a european union proposal in the international forums. i would like to say a few words about immigration. i come from a member state which is under tremendous pressure at its external borders, which are also the borders of the european union, especially at sea. i believe that we must make a special effort this year for frontex, and especially for the maritime dimension of frontex, with operations such as operation neptune in the aegean, which last year alone was able to deal with an average of 700-800 cases of illegal immigration during the summer months. we need this effort, as we also need to finally put a foot in the door of the budget - and i am in contact with other colleagues to achieve this - so that for the first time there is a solidarity mechanism between member states to manage the administrative costs and burden of hosting migrants. it is something we do not have and need, something that is putting a lot of pressure on some member states and something that i think we have a particular responsibility to achieve. i'm ending the way i started. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the needs of the citizens, and that the budgetary authority is able to meet the needs of the citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to reply and answer the oral question on behalf of commissioner mandelson, who was not able to attend today because he is in the process of deep bilateral negotiations on the doha round. the us case against european support for airbus and the european case against us subsidies to boeing are currently at the wto panel stage and the european legal position has been defended. we are now expecting the interim reports in both cases in the fall or winter. the next steps will be determined by the outcome of the dispute and by the underlying interests which led to it. on the question of how this affects the ability of the industry to compete, we would like to say that we see no reason why the pending eu and us litigation in the wto over support to airbus and boeing should affect the ability of european industry to compete fairly and in public procurement competitions with the united states. government procurement is about providing the best equipment, at the best value for the taxpayers, in the tanker procurement. the us air force has determined that the plane offered by northrop grumman and the eads is superior to the boeing and is the best tanker to meet its needs. the question of support for airbus is immaterial in this assessment. the wto litigation and the procurement have nothing to do with each other. on the united states government accountability office reactions, we would like to say that the us air force’s selection of the northrop grumman kc-45 remains in force. there is a misperception that northrop grumman and the eads north america have somehow lost or that the boeing award has been reversed. northrop grumman and eads north america remain under contract, albeit under a stop-work order, which places on hold the work under contract. the us government accountability office reviewed the air force’s evaluation process, not the capabilities of the aircraft. there is no requirement or direction from the accountability office to recompete the previous contract award. the air force and department of defense have indicated that the kc-45 best meets the usaf’s requirements. the accountability office has requested the air force to respond regarding the steps it will take within 60 days of the 18 june announcement. in general, the government support for aerospace meets the need that certain developments in the large civil aircraft industry require very high levels of investment. it is the commission’s view that any government support for aerospace on both sides of the atlantic has to be balanced, in order to ensure that the conditions of competition are not distorted. if this is the case, such support can contribute to innovation, increase safety and improve environmental performance and efficiencies in air transportation. it is in the interests of airlines and consumers, as well as governments, to maintain a high level of healthy competition in the aircraft sector. on the prospects of the bilateral agreements of 1992, we would like to inform you that, despite several good-faith attempts to solve the dispute amicably over the past years, the differences between the two sides – the us and the eu – have proven too big. the us has denied there are any subsidies to boeing while at the same time demanding that the eu put an end to european support to airbus. on this basis it has not been possible to establish a fair and balanced basis for a negotiated settlement yet. on 18 october 2007 boeing publicly rejected airbus’s offer to explore an amicable solution. we should also be aware that, with the current pre-electoral atmosphere in the us, it may not be easy at the present time to find a balanced settlement. we therefore do not expect that this dispute can be resolved in the near future, before the wto has ruled on both the airbus and boeing cases. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable member of the european parliament for his interest in and support for this cause, as demonstrated in the oral question and resolution provided to us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, the euro-atlantic economic relationship is of particular importance to both sides. any trade disputes must be settled on the basis of the search for transparent and balanced solutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of new aircraft. the aid is of particular importance for the promotion of research and innovation, environmental management and the enhancement of aviation safety and efficiency. the unilateral withdrawal of the united states from the 1992 bilateral agreement raises concerns as european state aid is fully compatible with the letter and spirit of the agreement. the european side basically considers the financial resources invested in airbus to be limited, repayable and without competitive impact in contrast to the prohibited and conditional non-repayable us subsidies. the union is known to have made substantial efforts to reach a negotiated settlement in good faith. but so far there has been no response. the european commission is therefore called upon to maintain a firm negotiating stance for a long-term settlement of the matter on the basis of fair and balanced competition. the us demand for an end to subsidies to airbus as a condition for negotiations is outside an acceptable framework for a settlement of the dispute.
mr president, the parliamentary procedure is not a form of our work, it is the very essence of the work of any parliament, even a parliament like ours, with 780 members from so many different countries, so far from the limelight, and therefore often from the interest of the citizens, and with the procedures we know in relation to debate, which debate here in the house is only a formal procedure in relation to the actual work done in the committees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is the principle of efficiency, of discussing things in such a way as to lead to choices and ultimately to decisions. second, the principle of democracy, equal arms for all regardless of their strength so that all can be heard; and thirdly, i would say, the vitality, so that what we say is of interest to the citizens. how are these principles served by the proposal in this report? i think satisfactorily, although there could be some minor improvements that i would suggest. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is a very good idea to have this summary for one reason: because then there will be no report that is not discussed at all. i'll give you an example: the very interesting report by mr duff, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, on how the commission is to be monitored in some way, will not be discussed at all, and it would be a very good opportunity to go through this short procedure. so i say yes, but i also point out that we see it today, we see it every time, how interesting the process of 'catching the eye' is, how uninteresting the debate is when it is only the rapporteur and the commission, and how interesting it is when others can speak too. a few more words and i'm done. i think that the commission has done a very good job in this respect. finally, as regards the own-initiative reports, i think that the amendments to these reports should be discussed.
in writing. the report is a crude imperialist challenge. as he says: "supports the efforts of nato forces ... to crush local and international terrorism and considers their presence essential to safeguard the country's future". it calls for the reinforcement of the us-eu-nato occupation forces with 'additional combat troops' and cynically demands that they not be 'constrained by national constraints', that is to say, that they act openly and without pretense as occupation forces. the eu should use the experience and expertise of its missions and of the member states which already have a military or political presence on the territory of afghanistan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political representatives of eu capital are interested in gaining a bigger share in the distribution of imperialist booty in the region, which is why they stress that 'the eu must encourage and help european investors to get involved in the reconstruction of afghanistan'. the cynical confessions in the report reveal the role and the imperialist ambitions of the eu, confirming once again that 'the eu and nato are the same murderous syndicate'. the peoples' struggle must be united against the imperialist system as a whole.
in writing. i voted against the report on afghanistan, as did the left group as a whole, because it insists on military invasion and presence in this war-torn country, where more than one and a half million people have died in the last 30 years. the problems in afghanistan cannot be solved by military means. the people of this country need the solidarity of europe. the continuation and strengthening of the european military presence is one of the main reasons for instability and insecurity in the region.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, i too would like to take up the matter in my capacity as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the conditions for access to gas transmission networks and congratulate the rapporteur, mr paparizov, on the very good work he has done in examining the package of proposals discussed in our committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected, and that the consumer is protected in a socially appropriate and transparent manner. i would add that this is a report which, unlike the rest of the energy package, where the issue of ownership unbundling was dominant, did not encounter opposition and reaction, and was therefore voted over by the committees of parliament where it was discussed. in the consumer field in particular, our committee has concentrated on consumer protection issues and on proposals to promote and ensure a genuine european internal market in natural gas. our position on the promotion of effective regional cooperation by the member states is a very important component in ensuring a genuine internal crossborder market. the creation of a european network of transmission system operators, where the basis of cooperation is to ensure the efficiency, representativeness and transparency of the european gas market, is therefore necessary. i would point out here that cooperation in the context of transport systems does not require the separation of network activities from production and supply. the transmission network can easily be made efficient without any separation of ownership in all the participating member states. we stressed the importance of the european network of transmission system operators consulting stakeholders, in particular consumers and their associations, as they are important stakeholders insofar as they are also household end-users. we have supported transparency of information and gas storage facilities so that fair prices and a genuinely open market exist for their benefit.
mr president, commissioner, although our discussion today naturally focuses on the internal energy market, i would like to stress, for the sake of balance, the very great importance of the european strategic plan for energy technologies if europe is to meet the enormous energy and environmental challenges it is facing today. we need to reevaluate our priorities. but we also need to redefine our current growth model, to aim for a low or even zero-carbon pathway, while creating growth opportunities for european industry, which has the potential to lead the fast-growing low- and zero-carbon technology sector. increasing the community budget for energy research and promoting innovation in areas such as renewable energy sources and smart grids are absolutely necessary to meet today's challenges. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr ortega, there have been many specific measures that have actually been adopted on this basis since 2004, and mr ortega was right to mention michel barnier's action in this respect, which has led to several substantial reforms in various community policies, whether at the level of cohesion policy and the structural funds, the european agricultural fund, rural development, the european fisheries fund and regional aid, the posei programmes or research programmes. in general, what i would like to say to mr ortega is that, despite the difficulties associated with the delay in implementing the lisbon treaty under the french presidency, we will try to give a genuinely new dimension to these policies and to ensure that their horizontal dimensions are translated as much as possible into practical action. we will do this in particular in the maritime field, we will work very closely with the commission on this and we will also do this in the context of regional policy planning with mrs hubner. i want you to know that we're very vigilant about this.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr evans, the council shares your concern about the situation in sri lanka. since the beginning of 2008, the european union has actively strengthened its dialogue with the government of sri lanka. from 16 to 18 march a troika of senior officials travelled to colombo, where they met with four government ministers and other senior political figures. on 10 june a high-level delegation from the european commission attended the 17th meeting of the joint commission between the european community and sri lanka in colombo, and both visits addressed the european union's concerns regarding the current situation in sri lanka. on the occasion of the visit of the eu troika to sri lanka, the union reaffirmed its commitment to its role as co-chair of the tokyo process and to the provision of humanitarian aid. the european union is sri lanka's main funder in this area, as you know. however, she also stressed the need for a more favourable climate to enable ngos, the united nations and the international committee of the red cross to work effectively. sri lanka is now enjoying the considerable benefits of the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance. it is the most widespread system of preferences in the european union. the rules under this scheme provide that all countries wishing to continue to benefit from gsp+ will have to reapply by october 2008. the conditions for granting this scheme are based on criteria of economic vulnerability and on the ratification and effective implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, workers' rights, the environment and the principles of good governance.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i have noted, mr evans, your comments on the geneva process. it is true that the norwegians have a special role to play in this. but i think the weight of the union, which, i remind you, is the main donor, is particularly important. we must therefore play our full part in influencing the geneva process and the stabilization operations in that country. the conditions for granting the gsp+ to sri lanka are based mainly on criteria of economic vulnerability and the fact that the international conventions on fundamental rights mentioned above must be applied. and there must also be a request from sri lanka. as far as i know, but i am cautious, we need to have a comprehensive dossier from the sri lankan authorities before we can know whether we can grant this gsp+. i am not aware at this stage of any reluctance on the part of the council to grant it. it remains to be seen what exactly the content of the request will be from the sri lankan authorities.
acting president of the council. - mrs doyle, what i do know is that the troika which carried out this work under the slovenian presidency has reported to the council. i know that this troika was headed by the asian director of the slovenian foreign affairs department, mrs campbell, and mr nicolaj, who heads the sri lanka office. i have not been aware of any other abuses than those mentioned. but i shall come back to this point with more information, if i may, mrs doyle, and i apologize for the vagueness of my answer.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the french presidency obviously welcomes the presentation by the commission, earlier this year, of the 'energy and climate' package, which has well reflected the level of ambition desired by the heads of state and government at their summit in march 2007: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 in any event, and even up to 30% if the negotiations on a global agreement on a regime for the period after 2012 are successful, to propose a regulatory framework for the capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide and to launch, dear mrs doyle, demonstration projects in this field, to achieve by 2020 a 20% share of renewable energy in the total energy consumption of the european union. you know all this as well as i do, dear lady. the french presidency also welcomes the progress made under the slovenian presidency. in this context, you were able to read, as i did, the progress report presented by the outgoing presidency to the council last june. the debate, based on the report i have just mentioned, showed that the council supported the overall architecture of the package, and it appeared that some of the provisions proposed in the review of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme and the allocation of effort in the sectors not covered by this scheme should be analysed in more detail. in particular, provisions on the fight against carbon leakage, the use of auction revenues, the flexibility required to meet national targets and the shift from 20% to 30% will need to be carefully examined and the specific situation of certain member states will need to be analysed. we know that the completion of all these objectives is difficult. we know that under the french presidency we will have to clarify all these points, that there are very conflicting interests and that there is still a great deal of work to be done on the elements i have just mentioned, particularly as regards the mechanisms for allocating bids, the fight against carbon leakage and the various flexibilities that can be found. but what we also know, mrs doyle, is that it is absolutely essential that we have a political agreement, for the poznań conference, of course, at the end of the year, but especially for the copenhagen conference. in the context of our presidency, in the context of the institutions, which you know as well as i do, in the context of the legislative timetables, we must find, together with your assembly, an agreement which is ambitious enough to put the union in a strong position in its international negotiations and in copenhagen in december 2009, and we have very little legislative time for that. so this is perhaps the most difficult challenge we will face, dear lady.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mrs doyle, on the first point, we will try to go as far as possible. we shall indeed try to reach agreement at first reading. we shall try to do as much as possible in this respect; if we can reach an early agreement on second reading, we will. i believe that this is in the common interest of the european institutions and of the union as a whole. to be very clear with you and very frank, this is my personal feeling, even though i know it is very difficult. as regards the mechanisms for dealing with carbon leakage, i think it is important - and this is the feeling of the presidency, i do not commit the council - that on the one hand we can work together technically on these measures which are not simple and that, on the other hand, we have leverage in relation to the international negotiations which await us. if there is no international agreement on this provision, then, as you have very rightly pointed out, we will also have to work on option b. but we shall be in a better position to find option b if we ourselves have proposals to put on the table in the framework of these international negotiations, and we shall do so soon enough. that's what i believe.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i thank you for this very delicate question. i think that in this area, as the french presidency, we must ignore the difficulties we may have with certain aspects of the package's proposals, which are not necessarily so easy to achieve. we know that not everything is easy. i am thinking of renewable energy, i am thinking of other elements, but our ambition as the presidency, and our responsibility, mr evans, is really to get an agreement by the end of the year, at any cost, and it will cost us, in the monetary sense, on some aspects of this package.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on transport and tourism amending directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community's railways (directive on safety on the community's railways) (16133/3/2007 - c6-0129/2008 - 2006/0272 (cod)) (rapporteur: paolo costa) (a6-0223/2008) and the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on transport and tourism amending regulation (ec) no 881/2004 establishing a european railway agency (regulation on the agency) (16138/2007 - c6-0131/2008 - 2006/0274 (cod)) (rapporteur: paolo costa) (a6-0102/2008)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on common rules for the operation of air services in the community (recast) (16160/4/2007 - c6-0176/2008 - 2006/0130 ((cod)) (rapporteur: arūnas degutis) (a6-0264/2008)
mrs roithová, we have to keep the chronological order. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are trying to strike a balance so that the same colleagues do not speak at all the meetings, because time is running out. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by reinhard rack, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the development of a new urban mobility education (2008/2041 (ini)) (a6-0252/2008)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to remind you, using the language of my ancestors, which is latin, of the true meaning of the word subsidium. subsidium means help, so subsidiarity means help. i would therefore like to reassure mr ferber, mr marinescu and mr sommer: the commission does not intend to take the place of local, provincial or regional authorities. it is not for europe to decide local government policies, nor is it for europe to decide what to do in individual cities. subsidium means helping, and so europe, the european commission, the european institutions can help to provide solutions, they can help to open a debate, they can help to exchange information between different cities, so that solutions can be found, perhaps common ones, which can be useful to citizens, to make their lives easier, their travel easier, their safety easier, both on the roads and in terms of health protection in relation to pollution. of course, there may also be financial contributions. i am reminded of the civitas programme, which has had good results and can be an example to follow. in the action plan which i am going to present, but which is intended to be an action plan with the aim of coordinating, of giving ideas for action, i shall be confronted with the many suggestions which have been made today during the debate, in an attempt to give ideas, suggestions, always responding to the principle of subsidiarity, because i am well aware of the union's powers. but i believe that the european union, where the majority of the union's citizens live in the big cities, has a duty to help. helping - i repeat - does not mean replacing, because i too believe that it is the responsibility of local authorities, elected by the citizens, to solve the problems of the citizens. but the european union has an important role to play, whether it is merely to help and coordinate some initiatives or even to provide some funding, so that citizens can be better administered in terms of local authorities and their administrators.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial' in the context of the directive on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to say that i have the magic wand and can solve all the problems tonight. unfortunately, i cannot use the magic wand, because i do not have one, but i think that we should approach these matters with a great sense of responsibility, without saying that tomorrow morning will be solved because we have found a solution immediately. if there is no scientific certainty about the instruments which can best ensure the safety of children, we cannot do anything at the moment, not least because it is the member states, under the current regulation, which have the power to decide and of course those who use the car seat can continue to do so if this is considered the best instrument. i said that as soon as i was provided with the clearest evidence with a scientific answer backed by evidence that would allow me to act, i would act otherwise it would be superficial to say, "very well, i've decided that the car seat is better than the seat belt". no one can say that except those who have done scientific studies, with physical evidence that shows one system is better than the other. i don't think this is the answer. i think that once the solution has been found, answers must be given. i do not think that a legislative solution can be reached before the end of the legislature. i think, however, that the commission's priority may be to amend the existing regulation and to try to introduce provisions which harmonize and make the amendments to the regulation compulsory in all the member states. but this will take time and i do not know whether we will be able to pass it before the end of the legislature. i repeat, during the course of my audition, i made a few commitments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we must be able to do, announce and commit only to things that can be achieved. my commitment to child safety - let alone being a family man and let alone not caring about the problem of young people. i certainly cannot be held responsible for everything that happens in the world. i think that this should be studied carefully and quickly. i will have a decision in october and i will have the answer. the airlines must now use all the necessary equipment, whether it be child seats or seat belts, as decided by the member states. when we have scientific news, which is certain and proven, we can give answers, because otherwise they become opinions and in this house, although there are few members, everyone has a different opinion on the scientific question. since none of us, i think, is an expert on the subject who can give scientifically proven answers, i think we should wait for the results. since the results are due in two months, i believe that thanks to the work of the civil aviation agency we could take action to protect the safety of children, which i consider a priority. i repeat that i consider the safety of every citizen, especially the most vulnerable, to be a priority, and i will therefore try to ensure that concrete responses to protect safety are given as soon as possible, in accordance with the legal deadlines.
the debate is closed. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
madam president, i listened very carefully to the speeches of both the president of the central bank and jean-claude juncker, whom i particularly appreciate. we are facing a major economic crisis, unlike any we have seen in recent decades. the frightening rise in the price of oil and many other commodities, high unemployment, prevailing poverty and low growth rates add to this sad picture. there has been a lot of talk about criticisms being made. i believe that the criticisms made, and even from official lips, were intended to highlight the seriousness of the situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his really surprisingly good report.
madam president, the eurogroup makes economic policy, the european central bank makes monetary policy and we here in the european parliament simply make policy, without any particularly aggressive definitions, which forces us to be accountable for the whole range of decisions taken in the eurozone. as a very young politician and with full respect for the independence of the central bank, i do not think i am in a position to give advice. but imported inflation, which is our big problem, i do not think is being tackled by gunning down interest rates. we need action on the causes of it. we need to fight the oil cartels, we need to fight the commodity speculators, we need more food on the market and if we do not act on the root of the evil, i am very much afraid that we will have similar discussions, characterized by brussels or strasbourg logic but suffering from a lack of political justification in society.
president of the european central bank. − madam president, i appreciate enormously the remarks that have been made both in the remarkable report of the rapporteur and in the very large number of interventions which echo the independence of the central bank, as mentioned very clearly by mr jean-claude juncker himself. i think it is extremely important and i have to say that it is not questioned anywhere. it is an essential part of the credibility of the institution and it is because we have this very visible independence and this primary mandate – which is clear on price stability – that we have been successful up until now in anchoring inflation expectations. i strongly emphasised the point that anchoring inflation expectations is absolutely decisive, because it permits us to continue to have, in the medium- and long-term market rates, the incorporation of these inflation expectations over the medium and long run. some governments in europe are borrowing on a 50-year basis. they are borrowing on a 50-year basis at rates which incorporate the credibility of the central bank to deliver price stability, not only over two, or five or ten or twenty years, but even much longer. it is because we are entirely aiming at anchoring, preserving the solid anchoring of inflation expectations, that we have taken the decision which has been mentioned. in the understanding of the ecb governing council – and i take it, in the decision which has been taken by the european democracies in creating the ecb, the euro system and the euro area – there is no contradiction between price stability, and solid anchoring of expectations of price stability, and growth and job creation. i have to say that it is very much considered now at global level that the appropriate way of looking at things is that through price stability and credible price stability over time you are paving the way for sustainable growth and job creation. the mention of the almost 16 million jobs which were created since the setting-up of the euro is an illustration of what i just said. having said that, i would also echo what was said by a large number of members on the fact that in order to get price stability we had to get some cooperation from other decision-makers, authorities and the private sector. that is the reason why we are so clear in our own messages, fully recognising that we are independent and that those who are taking those decisions are independent. but we always insist on the stability and growth pact because over-burdening of monetary policies through a lax fiscal policy is always a danger. we are also calling on the price-setters in general – corporate businesses, the production sector, retail businesses – to incorporate the fact that we will deliver price stability over the medium term so that we do not have second-round effects in this domain. i mentioned price-setters. i also mention of course social partners and that is the reason why we are calling strongly not only on price-setters, but also on social partners to incorporate in their decisions the fact that we will deliver price stability in line with our definition in the medium run. the situation is obviously difficult because of the price of oil, the price of commodities or the scarcity of raw materials, which are pushing up prices. we should recall what happened in 1973-1974. it is absolutely clear that those economies which let the second-round effects gallop and had inflation on a lasting basis had both inflation and very low growth, and it was the start, in a large number of economies in europe, of mass unemployment that we are still fighting and on our way to eliminating. therefore, there is much at stake here in this domain and that is important. i would also like to mention here, because it seems to me an extremely important element, that it is the most vulnerable and the poorest of our fellow citizens who suffer the most in times of lasting high-level inflation. therefore, when we are aiming at delivering price stability in the medium run, not only do we respect the treaty, not only do we respect the mandate – which we did not create ourselves but which was given to us by the democracies of europe – but we are doing what is best for the most vulnerable of our fellow citizens. on the question of the price of oil, commodities and energy and the price of food and more generally all those prices that are rising, i think that there is a triangle. as was very eloquently said by a number of members, we certainly have the demand-driven phenomenon; the big emerging economies are introducing at global level a new element of buoyant demand and that has to be fully recognised. we have, undoubtedly, a second side to the triangle, which is certainly the supply, and on the supply side we have a lot of responsibilities. cartels are not good, and it is clear that we have cartels operating in a number of domains. apart from the cartels, a number of countries and economies are also creating scarcity by preventing drilling, preventing exploration, preventing the construction of refineries. so i draw your attention to that point too. we have to see, on the supply side, whether we are doing all that we can. as for the demand side, all economy, all energy savings are absolutely essential and are part of the mastering of the demand side; as well as recognising the real price and not having artificial prices for oil and energy, which would continue to permit the demand to be buoyant. there is the case of the third side of the triangle, which is the reallocation of capital at a global level in the direction of commodities. that is not exactly the same in the case of oil, other energies or raw materials of all kinds. but there is such a phenomenon and that phenomenon obviously plays a role, and we have to recognise that. we have to call for markets to be as transparent as possible, to function in a fully transparent way. that is the way i will present that phenomenon and i would say that, as is the case with certain diseases where you have to treat the disease on a multidimensional basis, you have to make all possible efforts on the three sides of the triangle. many members mentioned prudential supervision and the necessity to improve the situation, i would certainly echo what many members have said. we have a situation which must be improved – that is absolutely clear. since the setting-up of the ecb we said that we would call on all authorities to cooperate as intimately as possible. we also said that we were in favour of a very close relationship between the central banks and the supervisory authorities. recent events since the turbulence that started in august 2007 have proven that this doctrine was right: a very close relationship between central banks and supervisory authorities is necessary. i would say at this stage that we fully support the orientation that has been retained by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a consensus basis. we think that there are a lot of workshops and that we have to proceed as rapidly and expeditiously as possible in this direction. i know that parliament is reflecting on perhaps bolder initiatives. i would say that we, ourselves, would like all that has already been decided to be implemented – for nobody to take the pretext of a second stage, not to do what has been already decided. then, i think we have to look very carefully at the proposals before us, because we believe that the more intimately we cooperate – and more intimately than is the case today – the better, certainly, for europe. what i say for europe is, in our opinion, valid for all other systemic parts in the global finance. my last point concerns the exchange rate, which a number of members mentioned. i think that the governing council of the ecb is in favour of the full implementation of the treaty as it is. it seems to me that when we are in china, as jean-claude juncker said, or when we are in the g7, where jean-claude and i are signing the communiqué of the g7, we are doing what is appropriate and if i am myself cautious – because it was mentioned that i am very prudent and very cautious when i speak on exchange rates – it is because we are in a domain which is extraordinarily touchy and a domain where, in my opinion, one has to fully respect the orientation which we have agreed upon. that is the reason why i would say that, again, at this stage we agree with all the partners of the g7 on the message for china. there is absolutely no ambiguity there. we made that very clear in the last g7 communiqué. we also consider it important that we look very carefully at the possible adverse effects of excessive fluctuations on both financial stability and growth. i should also mention that it is very important that the us authorities repeat that a strong dollar is in the interests of the united states of america.
president of the eurogroup and member of the european council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not go back on the remarks made during our debate by the president of the central bank. it is better not to repeat what he said, since everything was true, and the remarks i might make on this subject could be interpreted as trying to nuance what was said, which should not be so. madam president, i have to ask you. i speak german, a sign to show that i am also powerful in this language, as it is now. yes, one must be a frenchman, who is more than overworked, very happy, that he takes the time, because he lives in frankfurt, the language of the people to learn, with whom he lives together. that's not french. (beifall) in order to understand myself better, i will speak german. i would like to make two or three concluding remarks, because sometimes the debate yesterday in the house is so nostalgic for the 70s and 80s. the eurogroup is called upon to coordinate the economic policies of the member states more effectively. we have made every effort to do so, and we have now in many areas of practical economic policy put in hand a code of conduct which we are endeavouring to uphold. but one cannot on the one hand complain about the coordination of economic policy and on the other hand regret that such a coordinated economic policy is then also brought to practical fruition. here are some examples: we have reformed the stability and growth pact in 2005. the main thrust of the 2005 reform proposals is to strengthen the preventive arm of the stability pacts, which is underdeveloped and weak. the strengthening of the preventive parts of the stability pacts requires that governments continue to maintain budgetary consolidation and redouble their consolidation efforts when the economy is doing well, so that reversals for worse years can be made, which will occur again and again in the normal cyclical development of our economic systems. now we are in worse times. we are no longer in good times. the governments which have consolidated their budgets have budgetary margins of sufficient breadth to enable the automatic stabilizers to reduce government revenue in the shortest possible time. the governments which die in good times were weak, are naturally also reactionary in bad times. if we in the eurogroup agree that the member states which have reached their financial medium-term objectives can now also act in the face of the current economic re-development and rising oil and food prices, then they can only do so because they have worked out budgetary margins in the past, which is necessary, but in times of crisis they cannot be weakened and remain unresponsive. we have not decreed a wage stop, neither the zentralbank nor the eurogroup have ever decreed a wage stop in the eurozone. we were saying that wages should not automatically increase with inflation, but that wages should be adjusted to the productivity gains that are achieved in the economy and that wages should accordingly be raised without inflation. we have made it quite clear that we are not at all against the workers in europe continuing to call for wage reductions, while managers and other capital owners are demanding more reasonable and more measurable wages and salaries. this has been expressed many times. (beifall) this was in particular the case in the financial sector, where the productivity gains which were achieved there were not at all to be expected. it will only be abolished and not acted upon in accordance with economic and social standards. (beifall) we have, because we have not had a wage-stop, because i am more concerned than others perhaps also very concerned about it, the social compatibility of european measures, which are always in view, but very much insisted that instead of the companies being paid to let the man overthink the price of raw materials and oil, the states should be able to do something in the field of social assistance and consequently to weaken the purchasing power of the less well-off sections of the population. it is quite simply that the states which have consolidated their budgetary position now have the necessary budgetary resources to be able to finance a social assistance programme for the low-income categories of our population. there are also states which have introduced taxation surcharges, which have introduced heating-cost subsidies and rent subsidies, and which are also able to grant consolidation benefits on the basis of past consolidation benefits. there are also states which systematically set up their tax systems so that the less well-off sections of the population can obtain net gains from tax cuts, instead of tax cuts being granted only to those who benefit from them, which are the more well-off sections of the population. i think that the overall policy is not without flaws, but it is nevertheless conclusive. we want and we must not repeat the mistakes of the 1970s and 1980s, even if this would be a little easier in the short term. we must keep up with inflation. we have allowed inflation to run rampant in the 1970s and 1980s. we have accepted in the 70s and 80s that the state debt is constantly moving upwards. we have accepted public deficits in the 70s and 80s, and we have seen their effects. the result was that we had a mass unemployment in europe which we have now brought down to 7.2%, with the help of the euro. the result was that we have over-zogene social contributions in almost all our countries, which for many of us still seem too high, and this has nothing to do with a rejection of social solidarity, but with a more reasonable financing of our social system. we had an overtaxation of the labour factor and an undertaxation of the capital factor. that was the result of the false politics of the 1970s and 1980s. we are against inflation, because we are against unemployment and because we are for growth. it is not a counter-example to the growth and inflation-fighting pairs. we need inflation-free growth so that people can have a better tomorrow. today's gift is to let people do good and celebrate it, to let people celebrate their very own social status, is the false politics. if we want to succeed today, we must think for tomorrow's generations, and not the other way around. (beifall)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda provides for the joint debate of the report by jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the procedure for implementing regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems (com ((2006) 0016 - c6-0037/2006 - 2006/0006 ((cod)) (a6-0251/2008)), the report by emine bozkurt, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and laying down the content of the annex (com (2006) 007-029/2007) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the procedure for implementing regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems (com (2006) 0016 - c6-0037/2006 - 2006/0006 ((cod)) (com (2006) 0226-028)), and the third part of the proposal by jean lambert on the extension of the provisions already contained in regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and the content of the third part of regulation (com (2006-022-09/2008) 008-02 (a) and the proposal for a regulation (com (a03-09-0229-06-024)) on the extension of the provisions of the third part of the proposal of the commission regulation (ec) no.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i should first like to thank the rapporteurs, jean lambert and emine bozkurt, for their meticulous and painstaking work, for the excellent cooperation they have had with all the shadow rapporteurs and for their efforts to make use of our proposals and our contribution. these are extremely difficult reports with many complex technical details but extremely useful for european citizens. the citizens have, on every occasion, and recently in the irish referendum, protested against the great social deficit in the policies of the council and the commission. they are asking for a european union which takes care of their rights, and here we are discussing regulation 883/2004, which has been the responsibility of the council and the commission, not parliament, for years, pending the adoption of the implementing regulations for the annexes. the result is bureaucracy, lack of information, confusion, violation of basic social rights of workers, who move in the meantime; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. and it is in this legislative vacuum that the commission is coming in with its proposal for a 'bolkestein back door' directive on health services. these reports point to another way. we do not need a bolkestein directive on health services, we need an improved regulation 883/2004, which, according to the reports, can address all the issues that arise while safeguarding the rights of workers and their families and supporting the necessary mobility. so, mr špidla, leave the bolkestein experiments to the health services and proceed with the council quickly with the procedures for drawing up the remaining chapters and annexes of regulation 883/2004 so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. i would urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of amendments which weaken the content of the jean lambert and emine bozkurt reports.
madam president, these are regulations which confirm the general european orientation and which concern the solution of practical problems of social security for european citizens and for all those who live and work in the member states of the european union. when they come into force, following the adoption of the implementing regulation under consideration in the co-decision procedure, they will enhance the mobility of workers and make life easier for their families during the active period and during the retirement period. the principles of simplification of regulations, according to the rapporteurs, whom i congratulate, will change the existing system of coordination without leading to fewer rights for citizens, which would be the case with harmonization. the need for efficiency and short-term solutions is met by simplifying bureaucratic procedures and solving administrative transnational problems. it is a key measure for member states to designate cooperation authorities and specialised liaison bodies to cover the various dimensions of social security in cross-border relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that an easier way will be found to deal with the chronic problem of an ageing europe. payment systems, dispute settlement, recovery of amounts paid, the difficulty for citizens to collect entitlements from periods of employment in another member state are major obstacles today, which it is hoped will be overcome within a given period of time by the coordination which the new basic regulation and the implementing regulation are to establish. the specific provisions for the application of national legislation in annex xi will take account of the specific features of national social security systems. the regulation will also cover the rights of foreign workers.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the internal market in gas is part of the so-called 'third energy package', which completes the privatisation of gas services. the proposal for a directive and the report seek to overcome the high degree of concentration still existing in several countries in order to complete the penetration of the eu monopolies into the market, resulting in the speedier implementation of liberalisation and even by imposing sanctions on member states which have not yet fully implemented it. two are the critical elements of the beam: the separation of ownership between supply and gas transmission and storage activities, so that capital can effectively use the remaining public gas production, storage and transmission infrastructure in the member states. the strengthening of the so-called independent regulatory authorities, with the aim of removing any possibility of national regulation or state intervention by the member states, ensures the complete liquidity of the business groups that will be affected by the gas sector. this eu policy will have the same painful effects on workers as the privatisation of other energy sectors: price increases, deterioration in the quality of services. the fight against the interests of the monopolies to overturn this policy is the only way to meet the modern needs of the working class family.
in writing. the report, as voted, is in addition to the unacceptable regulation of the european parliament, which aims to control and stifle the powers that are not fully aligned with the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the political objective is obvious: they want to exclude radical, especially communist forces, to silence any dissenting voice and expression that questions the eu and its policies. this anti-democratic operation was accompanied by an alleged political blackmail by the coalition of the people's party and the social democrats to get other political forces to accept this increase, threatening that if they did not accept it they would vote in favour of a proposal for an even greater increase in the number of meps required to 30. the vote shows that this is a set-up by the forces of the euro-path to provide an alibi for their undemocratic decision. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment by the member states against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. the resolution that the kke meps voted against tries to present provocatively as a great 'success' the 10 year implementation of the un and the introduction of the euro, at the same time that the workers and the poorest layers of the countries of the european union, including greece, are experiencing its painful consequences, such as the accuracy, the stagnation of wages and pensions, unemployment, the savage taxation of workers and the poor self-employed, the removal of labour, social and democratic rights. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. the european central bank, as a genuine instrument of european capital, is called upon to play a more active and effective role in this direction, with anti-people measures such as interest rate increases, etc. the resolution's remarks and concerns, however, about the monetary 'turmoil' and the 'cohesion' problems of the european union that are continuing and expanding, confirm our assessment of the continuing and inevitable crises of the capitalist system and the uneven way it is developing and the need to overthrow and replace it with a system of planned popular economy, with the people in power, the need to break away and disengage from the imperialist eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, exactly one month before the beijing olympics china is still reeling from the tragic impact of the engelad. it took an earthquake with thousands of dead and homeless, unfortunately, for the government of the people's republic of china to realize that the solidarity of the peoples who had come to its aid was imperative. but this also forced china to open its borders, bringing all the media and humanitarian aid to places that until then were hard to reach even as a visitor. the events after the earthquakes in china have led to a recession, with the result that the eyes of the whole world are now turned to the peaceful coexistence of peoples. the olympic flag and the sacred flame of ancient olympia will take their rightful place between what divides us and, above all, what unites us.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, mr brok's effort is indeed commendable, and i thank him particularly for his oral intervention, in which he gave very useful explanations. however, while the effort is commendable, it is inexplicable that this study on the part of the european union should include new states once again as part of the european union. what union? what europe ? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. so what do we want to create? to create a new web of transcontinental misery ? this cannot be in the interests of europe. i think it's probably in the best interest of others. we must bear in mind the result of the irish referendum, which may not have allowed for enlargements as simple as those we have chosen.
mr president, i would like to congratulate elmar brok on his report, which contains a great deal of truth. i am personally not so optimistic about new accessions and new enlargements, at least in the immediate future, except for croatia. but we are interested in the world around us being governed by political and economic stability. we are interested in peace and prosperity. we're interested in the world around us being alive and very healthy. the european neighbourhood policy is a tool for this, as elmar brok also agrees. but the european neighbourhood policy does not create partners in a joint venture. it is based on the union's bilateral relations with each of these countries, and i believe that is its weak point. that is why we must create something that offers more than just a neighbourhood and less than a member state. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in that direction. it will be a kind of enhanced cooperation, a zone of states neighbouring the european union, which will have a european orientation. this is also a means of strengthening security and increasing the international standing of the european union. it will be the alternative instrument for enlargement, so that we can extend our influence to these neighbours of ours when the reactions to further enlargement are visible. i would like to conclude by saying that this proposal may sound very ambitious, but i believe that the european union must at last increase its prestige and influence, and i think that is how it is doing so.
member of the commission. - the the question is whether the commission considers that the reductions in carbon dioxide emissions by the european car industry have been satisfactory. the answer is no, which is why we have proposed the mandatory reduction in 2012. the second part of the question is whether the initiative to revise the car marking directive means a recognition of the ineffectiveness of the existing community regulatory framework vis-à-vis the car industry. the answer is yes, which is why we are making the recommendation for revision. i could stick to these two simple answers, but i'd like to give a few more explanations: we have proposed a mandatory carbon dioxide emission target of 120 grams in 2012, as set out in the strategy on carbon dioxide and cars. this will be achieved by improvements in the car's engine technology at 130 g/km and additionally by other technologies at 120 g/km. it should be said that there was a voluntary agreement between the car industry and the european car industry, but also the japanese and korean car industries, to not emit more than 140 grams of co2 per km in 2008. this was unfortunately not achieved: in 2006, emissions were 160 grams, while in 2007 they were 159 grams according to the latest data. the improvement of one gram is certainly not satisfactory. we hope that parliament and the council, through the co-decision procedure, will adopt the commission's proposal so that we have cars that use less energy, less fuel, that emit less carbon dioxide. by consuming less energy and less fuel, consumers will have huge savings gains, especially with today's fuel prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to say that there is a european parliament resolution on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the two cases are different, so we will not follow such an example with the mandatory part of advertising devoted to information. there are other ways of informing the consumer, since when he buys a car he goes to the dealership, he is informed by the leaflets and signs there about the carbon dioxide emissions and the fuel consumption.
mr president, commissioner, the members of the g8 are proposing a 50% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. however, this proposal does not seem to be received by the advanced, dynamic developing countries - china, india, brazil, mexico and south africa. do you think this attitude will have an impact on the negotiations for the post-kyoto period? how does this g8 proposal shape the prospect of the crucial negotiations in the post-kyoto period?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the commission has just launched a wide-ranging initiative in this sector. i would like to say at the outset that i am very pleased that in recent years there has been a broad recognition throughout the european union of the enormous importance of small and mediumsized enterprises for our economy and for job creation. it was a particularly important concern for me that the role of small and mediumsized enterprises should be given the necessary prominence in all the european institutions and in the member states. if we do not fully exploit the growth potential of small and mediumsized enterprises, if we do not fully exploit the potential of the labour force in this sector, then we will not be able to cope with the consequences of globalisation in europe. i want to make this very clear and very strong: we will be able to cope with the effects of globalisation if we succeed in strengthening the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in europe. to this end, smes must be able to make better use of the opportunities offered by the internal market and global competition. the crucial factor - and this brings us to your question - is access to knowledge, research and innovation. not only the large companies in europe, but also the small and medium-sized enterprises - if they are active on international markets at all - must take the path towards the knowledge-based economy. there's no other way. they cannot compete on price, they can only compete on the superior quality of the product or service, and the superior quality comes from superior technology and innovation. the main instruments available at community level are, of course, the seventh framework programme for research, which provides for a minimum of 15% of the funding for small and mediumsized enterprises, and the first results show that we are well on our way to achieving this. the small business act, which i have already mentioned, contains a whole series of other proposals designed to facilitate access to innovation, knowledge, research and technology for small and mediumsized enterprises. a few examples: firstly, simplification of the rules on state aid for research, development and innovation, in particular through the general block exemption regulation. the commission decided this last week and this will unlock great potential. secondly, to encourage the creation of high-growth enterprises by promoting research and innovation capacity, in particular through closer coordination of national programmes and initiatives. promoting greater participation of smes in knowledge transfer. here we will launch a new pilot project to help finance the commercial exploitation of intellectual property. i could also mention the promotion of the active participation of small and mediumsized enterprises in the work of the european institute of innovation and technology, so that small and mediumsized enterprises also benefit from the transfer of knowledge which is to be provided by the eit. you see, there's a lot going on. but i must make it clear: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of information centres. it is therefore very important that the opportunities that already exist today are brought much more into the awareness of market participants. this is a matter of information and communication which must be considerably strengthened. and that is why, at the beginning of this year, the commission created the european business support network, which is the largest network of its kind in the world, and which means that every european company has a point of contact within easy reach, a point of contact where all questions can be answered, including those relating to innovation, access to european union programmes and access to research funds.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for his reply, which was very comprehensive and covered the supplementary question on the problem of communication and information for businesses. if you want to add any more information! i come from a region on the eastern border of what is now the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what is your advice?
member of the commission. − i am quite happy to have this opportunity to answer all four questions, since we seem to be fairly late, according to the initial schedule. regarding the first three questions, i would say that the european union’s agriculture is both at the contributing and the receiving end of today’s global environmental challenges. we cannot stand by and fail to act. eu action is needed and, through rural development, we can provide the most targeted and effective measures. but, as you all know, our funds within the rural development policy are limited. the fairest and most straightforward way to raise money is through an additional shift of funds from the first pillar – from direct payment – into rural development policy in pillar 2 through what we call increased modulation, of course on a compulsory basis. i am not prepared to consider the increase in modulation on a voluntary basis. it is quite clear that the commission took into account the fact that in february 2007 parliament adopted a report rejecting the commission’s proposal on voluntary modulation. i have to say that i am quite happy that we have always been in agreement on this issue. concerning the threshold, the commission’s proposal is to transfer eur 5 billion from the first to the second pillar in the period from 2009 to 2012. this calculation is made on the basis of the present threshold of eur 5 000 or the franchise, as we normally call it. raising this threshold would mean a substantial reduction in the funds. the commission believes that, with less budget available, the effectiveness of dealing with the challenges within climate change and water scarcity will be significantly weakened. within the health check package, small producers who receive direct payments of a value less than eur 5 000 will continue to be exempted from modulation. therefore, small farms will not only continue to be protected from any possible negative effect of the shift from pillar 1 to pillar 2, but could also profit from the money that is generated through the modulation by engaging in the appropriate rural development programmes. with regard to modulation, farmers sometimes say to me, ‘well you take my money’ or ‘you reduce the payment to the agricultural sector, to the farmers’. this is not in fact true because of the fact that, when you modulate money, you generate more money to the sector in general, because the modulated money needs to be co-financed by member states. it is clear that, with the new modulated money, we will be much more specific. we will simply make a menu of possibilities explicitly targeting the new challenges. this means that, to those who say that modulation or money in rural development policy can be used for whatever reason, i can promise you this is not going to happen with the money that we propose for modulation in the health check. so, instead of saying that we take money, we actually generate more money to be transferred back to the agricultural sector. i am not sure if mr arnaoutakis is here tonight so therefore i am not going to answer that question. to mr gklavakis, asking about maintenance of the coupled payments for tobacco, i have to refer to the answer i gave in the committee on agriculture and rural development on 24 june. i actually had the same opportunity to give the answer here in plenary on several occasions, namely that the commission does not intend to re-examine the tobacco regime within the context of the health check. i will just repeat that the tobacco reform was agreed by all tobacco-producing countries in 2004, so therefore i see no reason to re-open this discussion. i hope that we can all agree that the money that will be transferred into the rural development policy, specially earmarked for support in those areas where tobacco production is taking place or has taken place, will be very important. we will also present to the parliament a report on the consequences of the tobacco reform at the end of 2009.
mr president, i thank the commissioner, although her answer was in the negative, but i know she is a hardworking, diligent and fair person and i would like to ask her the following: tobacco is the only crop that receives this kind of treatment, and it is an unfair treatment. however, i would like to say one more thing: because tobacco farmers are poor, small farmers, in order not to disappear, at least go ahead with a study that will help us see what these people could plant now that tobacco is essentially disappearing with these measures.
in writing. the resolution, which is provocative in its distortion of the reality of the peoples of both the old and the new countries of the union, presents the deepening and enlargement of the union as supposedly for their benefit, whereas the truth is quite the opposite. the plans proposed for its further enlargement are aimed at further exploiting and manipulating the peoples of the countries which are already in a difficult position, and at further plundering these countries by european capital. the process of enlargement towards the western balkans in particular is accompanied by a huge campaign of enslavement and humiliation of the peoples of these countries. a typical example is the insistence on full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, the pseudo-tribunal built by the vicious us-european imperialists to try the victims of wars and their crimes in the region, the one used to eliminate former president slobodan milosevic. it is also particularly dangerous for the peoples that the enlargement process continues to be based on changing borders and creating imperialist protectorates, such as kosovo, which will lead to a new round of imperialist rivalries and conflicts with the peoples of the region as victims. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. the use of space is necessary for the effectiveness of the eu's imperialist interventions. this is the conclusion of the report adopted by the european parliament on space and eu security. the report stresses the need to use space for 'the military operations of the member states in the framework of the osce, nato and other similar organisations'. - what ? it called for the rapid development of the egnos and galileo programmes, the full deployment of the eu satellite centre, the coordination, through the european space agency, of the satellite telecommunications systems of the eu member states for the purposes of espionage and surveillance, in order to provide 'independent, reliable and complete information in support of conflict prevention policies, crisis management actions... "already in this direction, the eu budget has the astronomical sum of €5.25 billion for the period 2007-13 alone. this, together with the decision to accelerate the galileo programme, shows that the eu intends to incorporate the use of space into military means and capabilities to promote 'keppa' and 'epaa', the mechanism of its imperialist interventions on the planet. the report also calls for the demilitarization of space, which is a typical example of the provocative double-speak of the political leaders of imperialism.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i was looking forward to your speech today with great interest. your presentation today has convinced me that you will shake the waters of the last six months of your presidency. the whole world is facing one of the biggest economic crises in decades. but europe is also facing its own crises. it is clear that today the europe of 27 cannot operate on the rules of the europe of 15. this is the institutional crisis europe is going through. it is still evident that today some member states do not want the political unification of europe and do not want the vision of our predecessors to be realised. this is an identity crisis. the institutional crisis will be solved. but how will the identity crisis be resolved? i'm afraid there's only one solution: the member states which want political harmonization should go ahead and those which see europe as an economic union only should be left behind. i am afraid that if we do not proceed with this solution, europe will at some point no longer play any role on the international chessboard. crises can lead to big leaps. but that takes courage. i think you have both vision and courage. you got it?
in writing. 'the european parliament voted in favour of the proposal for mutual recognition by the judicial authorities of the eu member states of criminal convictions in absentia, that is to say, of decisions handed down without the accused being present in another member state. in conjunction with the european arrest warrant, everyone is at risk of being arrested and extradited to an eu member state where he or she was tried and convicted in absentia, without ever having been notified and without knowing that a trial was being held against him or her. the problem is even more serious in member states such as greece, whose legal system does not recognize the possibility - at least for the most serious offences - of the accused being tried in absentia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the defendant are respected. this is a bombshell to the right of the defendant to an effective defence, which has already provoked strong reactions from legal organisations and associations throughout the eu. it is evident that the eu-led harmonisation of member states' criminal systems and the so-called 'communitisation' of criminal law is leading to a limitation of the fundamental rights and sovereign rights of member states to determine their own protection guarantees in critical areas such as criminal proceedings.
mr president, the dublin ii system for granting asylum must finally be revised: firstly, because it is not really european. does not guarantee effective solidarity and assistance to those member states which, because of their geographical location, receive a disproportionate number of asylum seekers. secondly, and more importantly, because it therefore often directly jeopardises the principles of humanity and the obligation to treat with dignity the people who arrive at our borders seeking protection. it is well known that, at times, many member states either fail for objective reasons to fulfil their obligations under the regulation or - and this is the worst - hide behind a lack of european solidarity in order to justify even extreme human rights violations by their authorities. practices such as the detention of minors in unacceptable conditions and the mass rejection of asylum applications on the grounds of political motives are not justified by any lack of solidarity. but it is also known that other member states which do not face similar problems feel that their humanitarian obligation is exhausted by complaints against other states. but not about solidarity. so dublin ii has effectively ended up in a ping-pong of liability and complaints between member states with only the asylum seekers actually losing. the first is the urgent need to establish a genuine common european asylum system.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, in recent years your policy, your market fundamentalism, has dangerously increased inequalities and shrunk the welfare state. the package you've presented us with in your big words is an empty shirt. of the 19 proposals, only three are legislative in nature and one of them, the proposal on crossborder health services, brings bolkenstein in through the back door because it adopts neoliberal prescriptions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and a word for mr. schulz, if he can hear me. it is true that the governments of the right have contributed greatly to the demolition of the european social model. but in some countries, mr schulz, such as your own, germany, the netherlands or austria, they did it together with the social democrats.
mr president, commissioner, minister, 'it is the people who determine the value of things', said the ancient greeks, and if the people take responsibility for the implementation of this package presented to us today, if they can reconcile the old with the new measures, the old proposals with the new ones, then indeed the people will not be resources but agents of action as employers, as workers, as unemployed, as entrepreneurs, small and large, men or women, young or old, without discrimination in the european union with respect for democracy and sovereignty, without the harsh language about who governs, whether the government or the socialists, as the right wing socialists have been heard. i have my colleague csaba őry next to me, who tells me that in his state the socialist government is fighting the welfare state. so we cannot blame the global crisis, we must look at it positively. even our own crisis, the demographic crisis, must be tackled in the best possible way and we must remember the old commitments, the decisions of barcelona on reconciling family and working life, the european alliance for the family, the european pact for youth, the common migration policy, the promotion of mobility from education and training to job mobility with respect for diversity, traditions, the language of migrant workers, the fight against social discrimination, the rights of the disabled, the rights of children that we have promoted as the european union, the fight against poverty, to which we will add another year in 2010; we must strengthen social cohesion, but also the geographical cohesion of our regions through dialogue, goodwill and transparency in the use of financial instruments.
mr president, the so-called 'social package' presented by the european commission is a failed attempt to defuse the indignation of workers at the anti-people policy of the european union and to counter the growing tide of questioning of this policy and of the very structure of the european union, which has been expressed in the loud 'no' of the irish people. the working class and the poorest layers of the population are at the centre of a harsh, long-standing anti-people offensive by the european union to increase the profitability of the eu's monopoly groups. they are faced with the liberalisation and privatisation of public sectors and strategic services, the complete dismantling of industrial relations, the undermining of collective labour agreements, the widespread implementation of flexicurity, temporary flexible forms of employment, the extension of the bolkenstein directive to the health services sector. the council adopts the division of working time into active and inactive hours, requiring workers to work 65 and 77 hours per week. in greece hundreds of thousands of workers are being thrown out of the institution of heavy and unhealthy occupations. according to the official statistics of the european agency for safety and health at work mr president, i would like to ask you to bear with me for a few seconds because the figures i am about to give you are very serious i would like to point out the following: according to official figures, every four and a half seconds a worker is involved in an accident and every three and a half minutes a worker is killed. seven million accidents a year, ................ (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the european council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic and social situation calls for a stronger social europe. today, 16% of the european population lives below the poverty line, and discrimination remains severe and widespread. economic policies that increase unemployment and insecurity are reinforcing the crisis of confidence of citizens to the detriment of europe and its prospects. in this context, the renewed social agenda is a step forward after a long period of inactivity in the field of social legislation. however, considering that only three of the proposals are legally binding, while the rest are recommendations and non-legislative communications, it is concluded that the impact of the new social package on the lives of european citizens will be limited. there are good intentions, such as the new proposal for an anti-discrimination directive, which is a major success for the socialist group as it has been a supporter of the proposal for a horizontal directive to put an end to the hierarchical system of community protection against discrimination. however, the new social agenda lacks ambition, is vague and contains significant limitations and shortcomings. this requires clear policy measures to curb the rapidly rising inequalities and to improve living and working conditions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, with regard to the four reports to be voted on, i would like to point out, on behalf of the committee on culture, that the multiannual programmes in the fields of culture, education, youth and citizen participation in community activities are one of the most important activities of the european union and, in particular, of the european parliament. for this reason, decisions on the selection and financing of the individual actions covered by these programmes should be based on clear and objective criteria, as well as on simplified procedures that do not cause unnecessary delays for european citizens. the four reports on comitology which parliament is asked to adopt today are designed to ensure transparent, rapid and efficient procedures, while at the same time strengthening the role of the european parliament in this context. it is very satisfactory and encouraging for the future interinstitutional agreement that these proposals by parliament have been accepted by both the commission and the council. finally, i would like to thank the commission, the council under the slovenian presidency and the french presidency for the spirit of cooperation and agreement which has been shown in the management of these four community programmes.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall briefly refer to the integrated management of coastal zones with a view to protection, with particular emphasis on fisheries and aquaculture. the debate on the report was cancelled because of a discussion on the situation in georgia, an urgent and important matter. that's why i'm here today. my report is mainly concerned with environmental protection and that is why i ask for your support. i note that the committee on fisheries voted unanimously in favour. i have a number of proposals in my report, four of which are the most important. first, the completion of maritime spatial planning. secondly, long-term planning and continuing the discussions with the participation of all sectors, and in particular fishermen. thirdly, the possible creation of a central coordinating body, because we have seen a lack of coordination between the bodies in previous years. and fourthly, the establishment of a timetable, because since 2002, when there was a similar debate, some actions have been taken without a time limit. i suggest that whatever is decided be done with a time schedule. i believe that we all want to protect the seas, so i ask for your vote in favour and thank you in advance.
in writing. the council proposal and the related report on the amendment of the eurojust regulation further enhance this eu enforcement mechanism. it extends its powers to almost all areas of criminal matters, strengthens its ability to intervene in national judicial authorities, makes it compulsory for member states to transfer information and personal data (even dna data) to eurojust, creates a network of eurojust's national liaisons and strengthens its link with other eu law enforcement mechanisms (european judicial network, frontex) and third countries. the strengthening of the eu's external borders is complemented by the strengthening of europol, the general file on eu and foreign workers, the modernisation of the schengen and vis surveillance systems, and the incorporation of the proms convention into community law. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, which is the foundation of the european union, and it is the only party to which the european union is a party. the gigantic repressive mechanisms at national and eu level make the reactionary character of the eu even clearer and make the struggle of the peoples to resist and overthrow this imperialist structure itself more urgent than ever.
in writing. the dublin system has also proven in practice to be a mechanism for promoting the eu's overall refugee policy. the various unfair practices in its application, which the report itself notes, confirm its reactionary character. the eu, which has a serious share of responsibility for creating hundreds of thousands of refugees by supporting anti-people regimes, fomenting civil conflicts, wars and imperialist interventions, instead of providing asylum to its victims and respecting their rights, has in recent years been steadily hardening its stance towards them. this includes the unacceptable "ping-pong" of asylum seekers from one eu country to another, established by the dublin regulation, the creation of frontex to push refugees back from eu borders, the recent directive on their detention for up to 18 months, the admitted expansion of the use of eurodac and other files, the inhuman treatment of them as a whole. the need therefore arises to intensify the fight for the abolition of this regulation and, more generally, of the eu's refugee policy, for the respect of the right of asylum seekers to seek refuge in any country they deem most appropriate, for the member states to comply with the 1951 geneva convention.
in writing. i voted against the lambert report on the dublin system assessment because it expresses concerns about the shortcomings of the system and calls on the commission to take action against states that do not ensure full and fair treatment of asylum applications they receive. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. greece is a systematic violator of the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, with unacceptable conditions in reception centres and one of the lowest acceptance rates. " what ? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the dublin regulation is applied in the member states where greece is the competent country, and some member states are considering doing so. we call on the commission to propose substantive and effective measures to ensure that asylum seekers are properly treated by the greek authorities.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. - the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of copyright holders are protected, and that the rights of the copyright holders are protected. piracy and the illegal distribution of music and movies on the internet is a reality that cannot be denied. however, in the other direction of technology, the losers are the creators who - whether we like it or not - are the source of the material being offered. i therefore call on all colleagues in all committees and political groups, on behalf of the committee on culture, to protect european creativity and, therefore, to safeguard the artistic content available in the new media.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world where everyone, governments, private companies and criminals alike, are seeking the widest possible and most unfettered access to our electronic data. for this reason, any changes to the e-privacy directive should do exactly what its title implies, namely to ensure the greatest possible protection of our personal data and privacy. for this reason i am opposed to any attempt to weaken the definition of what constitutes personal and therefore legally protected data of european citizens. the exceptions sought, especially for ip addresses, circumvent the existing european legislation by the back door. and i don't think isps should be allowed to judge for themselves which breaches of their networks' security are harming their users and which are not, and therefore decide for themselves when to notify users and authorities of even flagrant omissions. i respect the role and contribution of private companies, but the financial interests of the big internet companies cannot dictate the laws that europe adopts to defend the fundamental rights of its citizens.
madam president, commissioner, the management and allocation of radio spectrum must ensure full and effective access to this public good for all citizens. the proposals in the reports by mrs trautmann and mrs toia on the radio spectrum and the digital divide put the question on the right footing, in principle, and above all they point to the social, cultural and democratic importance and new possibilities of the digital divide which we must give to the european citizen. the debate on the digital dividend should not be oriented towards the extreme dilemma of its marketability or social utility. the development of a genuine strategy at national level, the possibility for each member state to define public interest objectives and to implement them, and their coordination, is the best possible community level we can provide. the commission's new approach, however, to greater harmonisation at european union level of the way radio spectrum is allocated and based on common management criteria, such as the principle of service neutrality and the extension of the general authorisation principle, seems to overlook the public interest nature of radio spectrum by favouring this commercial one. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
president of the council. - to reply to mr allister, i believe that food security must be at the heart of the thinking we have to have on the common agricultural policy, it is one of the objectives we wish to promote in the context of the revision of the objectives of the common agricultural policy, and therefore in this overall thinking we must try not to have only quantitative objectives in the framework of the common agricultural policy but also to have elements that are more qualitative and that ensure that each of our citizens, wherever they may be, has access to quality food products. as regards the question put by mr rübig, i would point out that we are indeed being driven by high world prices today and that this is a good thing for european exports. in view of the global needs, it must also be noted that in various areas we may prove to be importers or find that our production is not sufficient. in the framework of the multilateral trade negotiations, as you know, europe has done its duty, has made a number of concessions with regard to renovations, in particular in the framework of the agreements reached in the framework of the common agricultural policy. it is a pity that the blockages have come from other countries. it is true that, in the context of a doha round devoted to development, aspects of food security, of balanced food production within the planet, should be given more consideration than they are at present.
president of the council. - madam member, you rightly point out that there are a whole range of areas of action which affect young people, and that is perfectly correct. - thank you. - thank you. it is a policy which is transversal in nature. this is precisely the purpose of the european youth pact, adopted by the european council in 2005, since it aims to integrate the youth dimension into various policies in line with the lisbon strategy. our objectives are simple: to improve the educational potential in europe, training, youth mobility, vocational integration and social inclusion of young people. we know that we must work together to make this pact even more effective and that we need concrete results. to help us, the commission will, from 2009, draw up a report on youth every three years. this report will provide an in-depth analysis of the situation of young people in europe and will thus help to highlight their concerns. the responsibilities of the union are certainly important, but those of the member states are even more essential today, in the light of the treaties, and we must make sure that good practice, whether national, local or regional, is valued within the union. we must ensure that all the synergies between actors such as companies, schools, associations, employment agencies, youth workers, researchers, families and also the social partners are put into effect and, in this context, the presidency of the council wishes in particular to promote the crossborder mobility of young people. this issue will be discussed at the council meeting on 20 and 21 november, on the basis of a report by high-level experts on mobility, chaired by mrs maria joão rodriguez. we want to ensure that erasmus, which is a great success, is extended. we know that this will not be achieved overnight, but we want it to be democratized and extended. we want apprenticeship training programmes, such as leonardo, to be developed at european level too. we are planning, under the french presidency, to hold a major event in this connection to develop this mobility of apprentices. we also want to make the health of young people one of our priorities under the french presidency in the field of youth policy, with a view to raising awareness of health issues specific to young people, whether hygiene, the fight against smoking, alcoholism and, of course, drugs. in 2009, the council will be actively involved in the overall process of evaluating european cooperation in the field of youth, and on this point, given the long-term nature of this action, it is important that there be continuity of action between the different presidencies and it is in this sense that we have worked with the presidencies that will follow us, the czech and swedish presidencies, in order to ensure continuity in this policy which is crucial to ensuring a new european generation.
madam president, i thank the president-in-office for his reply and i wish him every success in the objectives of the french presidency. it is certain that after the conclusion of the pact there was also an agreement of the council on the quantitative achievement of objectives: 10% reduction in school dropout, reduction in youth unemployment by specific percentages and distance from graduation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i therefore congratulate the ombudsman for the initiative in drawing up the special report, and my colleague mr de rossa for supporting the position that the commission's discretion in dealing with complaints is not open to arbitrary interpretation, and indeed to the detriment of citizens. the confidence we want european citizens to have in the union is built not only by the adoption of legislation protecting their rights, but above all by its proper application. the commission must respect its role as guardian of the treaties and not allow the blocking of council decisions in accordance with the revision of european law to undermine the application of the law in force. the european union must also be directly effective where procedures allow it. the commission is obliged to demonstrate the unwillingness or inability of the member states to implement european legislation. the citizens will thus learn to check their national authorities on their european obligations, and governments will finally be held accountable for these commitments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, on behalf of my political group, i would like to congratulate the commission on its report and my colleague on the view of parliament expressed in her report, although we have proposed amendments on certain points in order to improve it and to show in parliament's report that we recognise what has been done on the basis of the road map for equality, on the basis of the pact for equality. the quantitative success is great. we must improve the quality of implementation of the measures and ensure effective enforcement and extended legal protection by designating a body responsible for complaints in each member state, by setting penalties based on the principle of proportionality. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected and the principle of free choice must be respected. in particular, on the question of family work combined with working life, we want to cover not only women workers but also the unemployed and those who decide to have sole employment at home, as well as self-employed workers or those in family businesses. we want to strengthen maternity leave, family leave and we believe that the commission, with the communication we are awaiting, will cover us in this respect with a good proposal. women study more, work more, deserve to be paid for all kinds of services.
member of the commission. − mr president, the honourable members will know that in accordance with the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the enisa agency, the mandate of enisa automatically expires on 13 march 2009. however, the commission believes it is essential to ensure the continuity of network and information security activities. that was a view shared by parliament and by the council in the debates on the proposal for an amending regulation extending the mandate of enisa. therefore, the measure extending the mandate of enisa for a further three years is justified. it is true that the evaluation of enisa launched by the commission in 2006 identified a number of problems, but it also identified positive aspects of the agency’s achievement in the light of the limited means at its disposal. the commission responded to the concerns identified by bringing forward a proposal for a regulation establishing the telecoms authority. we note today that the council and parliament agree that enisa should be kept separate from a new body to be put in place as an alternative to the telecoms authority, and the commission still sees the need for an efficient body able to monitor security and integrity issues. that is why it is important to continue the work of enisa. however, i also strongly believe that network security challenges will require a strong, coordinated european response. recent cyber-attacks in estonia and also in georgia – the serious cyber-attack there during the summer seems to have gone unnoticed – have shown that one country on its own can be very vulnerable indeed. i therefore call on the european parliament and the council to open, early in 2009, an intense debate on europe’s approach to network security and on how to deal with cyber-attacks, and to include the future of enisa in those reflections. during the debate on the prolongation of the enisa regulation, calls were made both in parliament and in the council for a debate on the goals of a possible modernised network and information policy, and on the most adequate means to achieve them. it was explicitly stated that the prolongation of enisa should not prejudice the outcome of that debate. in order to facilitate such a debate, the commission services will, in the second half of 2008, develop a questionnaire to be submitted to public online consultation on the possible objectives of a modernised nis policy at eu level, and on the means to achieve those objectives. this will, of course, be done in consultation with enisa and its management board.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, both the european parliament and the council have approved the extension of the mandate of enisa until the end of 2012. this three-year extension will allow further discussion on the future of enisa and more general reflection on enhanced network and information security in europe. in my view, the revision process, which must begin immediately, should transform the agency from a temporary establishment into a permanent one and, above all, be accompanied by a simultaneous increase in staff and an update of the most important articles 2 and 3 of its rules of procedure. this solution will enable the agency to operate under an upgraded and improved mandate as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the european union's information systems are not compromised. i would also stress that today the overwhelming majority of partners agree that enisa is the most appropriate and competent body for developing a new and dynamic european policy on network and information security. enisa has been the subject of strong criticism in the past. however, i would point out that the 2007 evaluation text was only able to evaluate enisa in its first year of operation and is therefore no longer reliable and certainly no longer up-to-date. recent evaluation studies by independent bodies restore the truth. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in conclusion, i would like to inform you that the greek government, wishing to support a viable solution, has undertaken to cover the costs of maintaining an enisa office in athens to facilitate the work and operations of the agency.
on behalf of the pse group. the conditions under which the ppe's oral question on enisa is being debated today are of course very different from those under which the question was put. first of all, the council and the european parliament have agreed to extend the agency's mandate until 2012. at the same time, the european commission's proposal to set up a european authority for the electronic communications market was met with reservations by the council and the european parliament, which proposed the establishment of bert with a key responsibility for better implementation of the regulatory framework for telecommunications services, without involving it in network security and integrity issues. these are indeed extremely important issues, but you rightly pointed out this, commissioner, both a short while ago and in your statement earlier today, stressing that the recent cyber attacks in estonia and other countries highlight the need for a convincing and coordinated european response immediately. this is precisely the role that enisa can and should play, provided that it operates under an upgraded and improved mandate with clearly defined tasks and objectives and, of course, that it has the necessary means and human resources at its disposal. i hope that this time the commission will make an active and substantial contribution to this by assisting enisa in its work to strengthen the security and integrity of networks which are crucial to boosting the confidence of businesses and of course of european citizens in european networks.
mr president, we are both in favour of the market economy and in favour of competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. freedom is not ignorance, and advertising is not making art where everyone can project their standards. this morning we talked about tackling discrimination and it is very strange that people who support the abolition of discrimination do not want to protect human dignity by putting self-regulation in advertising. i congratulate the commissioner because she has often demonstrated in her proposals that she takes measures to protect minors and to defend values through the media and, above all, modern technologies.
in writing. the new democracy group decided to abstain from the final vote on the resolution on the situation in georgia. the reason for this decision was that the final draft resolution put to the vote was drawn up in such a way as to break the logic of balance which had existed in previous drafts of resolutions.
in writing. the joint resolution supports the eu's policy of using the crisis in the caucasus to strengthen its intervention and presence in this important region. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide military force to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take effective action against terrorism. the resolution is so provocative that it makes no denunciation of the brutal attack by the eurasian government of georgia and the murder of thousands of civilians. on the contrary, it is fully supportive of its policy and its accession to nato. the condemnation of the independence of north ossetia and abkhazia is at least ridiculous hypocrisy in view of the break-up of yugoslavia and the recent eu decision on kosovo. in the context of the contradictions and rivalries between the eu and the us and russia, the european parliament resolution is almost identical to us policy, it is unilaterally directed against russia with the aim of negotiating better positions for the share of markets and resources of eurasia. the intensification of the antagonisms and rivalries between the imperialists and russia's attempt to raise its position in the imperialist pyramid create new dangers for the peoples of the caucasus and the wider region. the united anti-imperialist struggle can and must be the people's answer.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the situation in the caucasus, as did the whole of the european left, because it reads the crisis through the coloured glasses of political and expediency-friendliness. the main and provocative negative element of the resolution is that it avoids any criticism of the adventurous action of georgian prime minister saakashvili which triggered the crisis, in order not to displease his american patrons. the position of the majority in the european parliament is in complete contrast to that held by the same political forces six months ago on the kosovo issue. stability in the caucasus region cannot be achieved by a us tunnel policy which turns a blind eye to reality and adopts a two-track policy.
in writing. the report on the european commission's refusal to examine a complaint by a german doctor about the german state's breach of labour legislation on working time highlights the deeply class character of the eu. the eu commission, which acts swiftly when the interests of capital are affected, by imposing compliance by the member states with community legislation, throws workers' complaints about the violation of their rights into the trash. the commission's provocative attitude is a natural consequence of the eu's anti-people policy of promoting a 'working middle age' for the working class, to ensure the profitability of european monopolies. in this context, the employment ministers' council adopted last july an amendment to the eu working time directive. this anti-working-class extract divides the concept of working time into active and inactive time which is not considered as paid working time and gives employers the right to employ workers up to 13 hours a day, 65 hours a week without paying them anything for overtime. the rights of the working class, of the workers, are not guaranteed by complaints to the commission, but by the consolidation and intensification of their class struggle against capital and the eu to overthrow this policy.
in writing. we cannot vote for the report on equality between women and men for 2008 because it tries to convince women that the compromise with flexible working relationships, the reduction and commodification of what social benefits have been left to the working family is a necessary evil in order to adapt women to the european union policy of "compromise of family and professional obligations". the correct findings on the gender pay gap are not addressed, much less eliminated, by mere admonition, nor by establishing a world day of equal pay. the measures proposed to combat gender stereotypes, equal representation in decision-making, the elimination of all forms of gender-based violence, etc., are positive but will remain wishful thinking as long as the root that creates and sustains them, the capitalist system, remains, a system that produces and exacerbates discrimination and inequalities. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs flautre and congratulate her on her excellent work. i should like to say that i am very disappointed, and our group is also disappointed, that the report has been substantially altered during the vote on the amendments in the committee responsible. sanctions are another tool at our disposal for the defence of human rights in the world. the crucial point is that these sanctions should not be those which violate human rights, so that when we try to solve an injustice, we respond with an even greater injustice. we must also ensure that more targeted economic measures are taken in compliance with international humanitarian law. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities and the european investment bank, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the same way, decisions of the competent judicial institutions must be implemented. the council and the commission must finally review the procedure for inscribing people on the so-called european blacklist for terrorism, in order to respect the fundamental rights of the individuals or organisations on it, and to ensure the credibility of the european union as a defender of human rights in the world. it is particularly important to guarantee the effectiveness of sanctions and to achieve a common understanding on this issue within the union, but also to ensure cooperation with other international organisations, such as the african union and asean, which are often closer to the troubled areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there should be continuous monitoring and pre-defined conditions to better understand the objective of sanctions and to terminate them when the objective is achieved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sanctions are effective and that our policy is credible. finally, i would point out that my original position was not to mention these countries, but since some have been chosen to be mentioned in this text, i feel it is imperative that we do not forget palestine. the inconsistency of the european policy is characteristic here, which, while supporting the spread of democracy in the world, has chosen to impose union sanctions against the palestinian government, which emerged from confirmed free and democratic elections. sanctions are not the means to change the world, but they can be an important tool to force countries that violate international law and human rights to change their policies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
mr president, the report under discussion, under the pretext of human rights, suggests that the unacceptable and inhumane weapon of sanctions and embargo should be used more effectively to impose, by means of blackmail and pressure, the policy of the european union on countries, peoples and governments that resist capitalist barbarity. the clever and targeted sanctions proposed, combined with the funding of non-governmental organizations, mercenaries of the european union, constitute brazen open interventions within countries and even violate basic principles of the remaining international law. the report in practice adopts the policy of the embargo applied by the united states of america against cuba under the helms and burton act, which obliges, among other things, even third country companies that trade with them to follow the sanctions they decide. this law and embargo have been repeatedly condemned by the overwhelming majority of the members of the united nations in general assemblies. it is an export of national domestic law which is arbitrary and a repudiation of international principles and the un charter. the invocation of the united nations and the reference to human rights is the 'fig leaf' to cover the aggressive imperialist policy of the european union. the hypocrisy is enormous. and we ask you: why aren't you taking any action against russia? we don't agree, of course. why don't you take any action against china? we do not agree with you taking action. because you have financial interests. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. the people are responsible for solving their problems, and they do not need any protectors of their own, let alone the european union.
member of the commission. - the mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr arnautakis for his question on the ever-present issue of food security. the commission has many ways of ensuring that the consumer and the european citizen are protected from a possible food crisis. first of all, through the rasff early warning system for food and feed, the commission ensures that the competent authorities of all 27 member states are informed in good time and at the same time. secondly, the commission's food and veterinary office, the fvo, carries out systematic checks both in the member states and in third countries. thirdly, the commission carefully examines any information received either from the european food safety authority, efsa, the international media or from any other source. where necessary, and in particular where food or feed is likely to constitute a serious risk to public health and that risk cannot be effectively addressed at member state level, the commission shall take the necessary measures at european union level. for example, in the case of the presence of mineral oil in sunflower oil of ukrainian origin, rasff received on 23 april 2008 a notification from the competent french authorities, which was received by all member states. the commission immediately informed the other member states of this incident through rasff and adopted decision 2008/433 imposing special measures in respect of imports of sunflower oil originating in ukraine on 10 june 2008. in addition, investigations were initiated to identify the source of the contamination. in addition, the traceability system provided for in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, commonly known as the general food regulation, makes it possible to carry out targeted and accurate product recalls, to provide appropriate information to consumers and food business operators, to assess risks and to avoid unnecessary disruption of trade. the commission also systematically checks the ability of the competent control authorities of the member states to ensure compliance with food law obligations both inside and outside the european union. in malaysia, for example, the commission's food and veterinary office identified significant problems in relation to compliance with export obligations for fishery products. in the european union the commission reacted immediately by banning the import of fish from malaysia. this is just one of many examples of effective action by the commission to protect consumers and avoid a food crisis. the commission therefore considers that the legislation in force provides it with the necessary means to successfully tackle food crises and to protect consumers effectively. but at the same time we are constantly improving the channels of communication and cooperation with the member states to this end, as for example with the new guidelines on the use of rasff which the commission is about to adopt shortly.
i'm the editor. - commissioner, thank you for your introduction and i would like to say that what the european consumer is experiencing today is a lack of confidence. his confidence is shaken. the commission must therefore look at what action it will take to inform him. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the oil price, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the price of oil. how can the consumer be protected and what action do you intend to take?
vice-president of the commission - mr president, madam deputy, the supervision, controls and sanctions for infringements are of course the responsibility of the member states. but i would remind you that on 21 october 2003 the commission adopted a recommendation on the application of road safety regulations, which sets out best practices in the control of road traffic offences, and i would like to say that on european road safety day we have the opportunity to take stock of the situation in each member state. this report highlights the record of some member states and also the weaknesses of other member states. i think that there is a way for us, with european road safety day, to really shine a light on the different performances of the member states. so it is true, you are right to point out, we have not achieved the performance we wanted. we have a lot of concerns about the target of halving the number of deaths by 2010. and perhaps in the next multiannual programme, which will last ten years, we will have to be able to increase the constraints on the member states even further. i would also like to take this opportunity, mr president, to remind you of the importance we attach to the adoption of the directive which will make it possible to punish motorists who commit offences in a member state other than their own. today there is too much impunity for drivers who do not respect any of the rules, even though they are in another member state than their own, and i believe that this will really be a way of encouraging european citizens to behave better on the road. thank you for asking that. i know that my successor, mr tajani, is also very committed to road safety, and i can tell you that all your suggestions, all your mobilisation will help us to put an end to this serious scourge.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the concerns expressed by the honourable member and would like to draw his attention to the fact that existing community laws on consumer rights already offer considerable protection of young people. for example, the directive on unfair commercial practices (ucp) aims at protecting consumers, including young people, from practices that harm their economic interests, such as misleading advertising or aggressive practices. vulnerable consumers, among others younger citizens, are specifically taken into account when assessing unfair commercial practices. the directive also includes a black list of commercial practices which are prohibited in all circumstances across the eu. for example, the inclusion in an advertisement of a direct exhortation to children to buy products is banned across the european union. the commission will launch a communication web campaign on the ucp directive in september 2008. this is quite a new directive and will also target young people. the campaign will make use of a dedicated website, including animations, illustrations and quizzes, in order to explain ucp rules in a more interesting and interactive way. to attract consumers’ attention, banners and fake advertisements will be disseminated in several key consumer websites. there will be portals for specific categories of consumer, such as young people, virtual communities, music websites and blogs. the information will be circulated on the internet over a period of one month and, although it is difficult to predict for how long this data will be hosted by the partner websites, we expect the information to be available on the web for at least a few months. the ucp dedicated website which is being created will be accessible to consumers for an indeterminate duration. for the time being, the commission has no intention of launching a special pan-european campaign to inform and educate young consumers. however, besides the europe diary, it is also developing a web-based consumer education tool called dolceta which contains a teaching module aimed at primary and secondary teachers. as regards the consumer scoreboard, at the current stage our data do not distinguish between different groups of consumers. it is not possible for the scoreboard to address in detail all markets or all different types of consumer. however, where we have specific data covering younger consumers, for example students, such as eurobarometer surveys, we will publish the data for this group.
i'm the editor. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for your full and detailed reply. it is very comforting and pleasing that this campaign is starting online in september, the month we are in. i would simply like to ask the following in addition: is the commission considering banning television advertising to children, as has happened in some member states, where television advertising to children is banned until a certain time of day, i think until 10 or 11 o'clock at night, when children are watching television?
member of the commission. − i believe that producers can be induced to produce healthy foods through market tools. if there is a demand from the market, they will respond to this demand. we can say what the producers should produce, but this is not exactly how the commission should tackle the problem. what we can do is make the information 100% available in a very understandable way. the commission is working very hard on this so as to have proper information about food-related products. you say that some of the advertisements are false or expose children to danger. if, for example, a product claims that it could cure you or could all of a sudden make you 10 years younger (which of course is not possible), then it is in my scope and i could deal with it through the unfair commercial practices directive. otherwise, when you are talking about the healthy side of food, i should again remind you that this is part of the portfolio of commissioner vassiliou. she is doing an excellent job in having this food labelling properly done, through which consumers can make their own choice. that is what we are targeting: having well-informed consumers, and through the educational campaign in which my dg is also very much involved, we can improve market awareness.
member of the commission. − the commission does not have the power to set prices or define the quality of educational products. otherwise, i really find the question quite relevant. however, consumers are protected under eu laws against misleading or aggressive practice when they purchase educational products. under the unfair commercial practices directive, which i have just talked about, traders must not mislead consumers with false or deceptive information as regards, for example, the benefits of a product, the results to be expected from its use, or the results of tests or checks carried out. the directive also includes a black list of practices prohibited in all circumstances: claiming that a product has been approved or endorsed by a public or private body (such as, for example, stating that an educational book has been approved by the ministry of education when this is not the case) is banned outright across the eu. furthermore, traders must provide consumers with all the information they need in order to make an informed choice. the commission has, for example, received a complaint relating to courses to be purchased on an english-speaking website, which were then delivered in another language. omitting to inform the consumer of the language used for the courses can be considered a misleading practice. it is, however, up to the national authorities and courts in charge of enforcement of the unfair commercial practices directive to determine, subject to the free movement principles enshrined in the ec treaty, what information is material on a case-by-case basis, in line with european law.
i'm the editor. - thank you for your answer. the price distortion in relation to the quality of the product is a matter for the consumer. i am not talking about price fixing, but about fixing the price-product ratio on the basis of competition, and also the transport of products from one member state to another and the protection of consumers across borders. do you have any information on cross-border protection when educational products are moved from one member state to another?
member of the commission. − the suggestion of european consumer centres going to court on behalf of european consumers is an idea we will discuss in our communication on collective redress before the end of the year. so far, my concern has been to keep our minds open and to have a diversity of opinions before arriving at a final proposal. we really need to see the whole picture and to use all the instruments at our disposal, including the directive on injunctions, which is also one of the tools we can use cross-border in europe. i fully agree about the database, which i firmly support. we need it in order to make better policies and better legislation. my firm conviction is that we need to be evidence-based whenever we are proposing legislation or having our common enforcement actions. i will continue with enforcement actions in all 27 countries at the same time – the so-called ‘sweeps’ on issues such as airline tickets or ring tones. websites are normally very good clients in such kinds of cross-border enforcement actions. each country is different. we need to have broadband penetration, and we need to have more than a given percentage of the population using whatever kinds of tools they use to enjoy e-commerce, which is usually the internet. i also believe that we can enhance this penetration through cohesion policy, regional policy and the cohesion fund. new member states will have a unique possibility to catch up really fast and sometimes to avoid some of our previous mistakes. they need to go in leaps. if you have good, targeted legislation which is fully harmonised in all member states, this will have a tremendous impact in raising both consumer confidence and the level of consumer performance in all member states. e-commerce is one of the tools for getting a better deal and for having more choice. it is not merely a market tool, but also a very important democratic tool.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank the honourable member for his positive comments about the internal market scoreboard. i agree that the scoreboard results need to be widely communicated. all editions of the scoreboard are available on the europa website. paper versions were sent to the permanent representations of the member states and to the commission representation offices in the capitals of the 27 member states. in addition, copies were circulated to other eu institutions as well as the national administrations. following the publication of each scoreboard, a press release is issued in 21 languages and the results are communicated during a press conference to ensure that they are easily accessible to the national media.
member of the commission. − we have a range of tools available to us for late transposition of directives, which primarily the eu scoreboard deals with. if the member states continues to be late in transposition, we then of course have the ultimate sanction of taking the case further. but we try to avoid all of that by doing the following: if a member state has difficulties in transposing a directive, we organise meetings with them, we have seminars and we try to deal with specific questions and difficulties they might have. so we do our best to try and get the transposition effected as quickly as possible. i agree with mr burke when he says that this is true not just in ireland but in other eu countries as well. there is a marked tendency for all governments to take credit for themselves for the good things that happen, even though they might be inspired from europe or by an originating idea from europe. i am sure that those of us who have served in the irish parliament or government have often been guilty of that as well. but then when there is anything negative that has any kind of european orientation, of course we blame europe. so i agree with mr burke that there should be more positivity about the good things that we do here in europe. when a member state fails to act in a particular area, we do take the appropriate action but we try to avoid these things if possible by encouraging member states to get their house in order as quickly as they can.
member of the commission. − users of debit and credit cards in border areas can face three categories of charges associated with card payments. these are: usual charges related to the use of cards independently of the geographic location or member state; charges for currency conversion if the payment is made between member states using different currencies, for example the euro and sterling; and third, charges at the point of sale of a cash withdrawal at an atm. looking at the first category, i.e. the normal charges for card users, regulated at european level as far as payment in euros are concerned: according to regulation (ec) no 2560/2001 on cross-border payments in euro, when a cross-border payment in euro is made between two member states, the charges levied for such payment should be the same as the charges for a corresponding payment in euro within the member state in which the card was issued. at the same time, payments by cards linked to non-euro accounts, for example sterling accounts, are not subject to this regulation. when a euro payment is made between a euro-area member state, such as ireland, and a non-euro-area member state, such as the united kingdom, supplementary charges may be applied for the currency conversion for payments by cards. the payment services directive regulates the conditions under which the currency conversion shall be offered. however, it is yet to be implemented by member states. finally, card payments can also be subject to a surcharge at the point of sale or to an additional withdrawal fee at privately-owned atms. the issue of surcharging or offering a discount on a given payment instrument is, according to european legislation, left to the discretion of the merchant. at the same time nothing impedes the member states from banning or limiting such surcharges. this is explicitly confirmed in the already mentioned directive on payment services in the internal market. the commission has therefore no legal basis for intervention in the matter of supplementary charges on cross-border payment services in the uk and ireland. however, the commission believes that competition on both sides of the border will keep costs at a reasonable level. if market players would reduce or limit competition, the competent national authorities shall intervene in the best interests of the citizens.
member of the commission. − this question of additional or supplementary charges on cross-border services has, i agree with mr higgins, given rise to some anger in particular quarters. however, it is up to national authorities to address that issue because – and this was explicitly confirmed in the recently-enacted directive on payment services – national authorities, in the compromise we reached, wanted to have that issue left to themselves. so the national authorities of the relevant member states can address this issue if they want, but at that particular stage there was no majority of member states in favour of action at eu level. that is where the matter rested at that particular time. like all things in political and economic life, maybe this will change in the future. so, as recently as the debate on the payment services directive, there was no majority among the member states to take action, but who knows what proposals will be put forward in the future – maybe a majority will emerge.
member of the commission. − i should firstly like to underline that the protection of the interests of minority shareholders in listed companies is one of the key objectives of the community rules on takeover bids. in the event of a change of control in a listed company, all shareholders should be afforded equivalent treatment and minority shareholders should be protected. the commission is very much attached to this fundamental principle. minority shareholders in state-owned companies which are listed are entitled to exactly the same rights as minority shareholders in companies owned by private parties. this principle normally implies that persons acquiring control of a listed company should launch a mandatory bid over the capital held by minority shareholders. however, the community rules allow member states to derogate from the mandatory-bid rule in order to take account of circumstances determined at national level. greece has made use of this discretion. its national law foresees that the mandatory-bid rule should not be applicable in certain situations. this includes, in particular, the case where the privatisation process of a company is ongoing. this exemption is general in nature but, as usual, the devil is in the detail. the commission does not challenge the fact that the greek national telecommunications operator, ote, about which the honourable member is enquiring, was a state-owned company. although the state held only 28% of the company, the company was fully controlled by the government. the real question at issue here is: how long can a privatisation process be ongoing? in the case of ote, the privatisation procedure appears to be long. in fact, it seems to be very long indeed. the process, which is apparently still ongoing, started 12 years ago. how long can a company be kept out of the scope of application of the mandatory-bid rule of the takeover bid directive? the greek supervisor, the hellenic capital market commission, has decided that ote is still undergoing a privatisation process and that, in consequence, no mandatory bid was necessary. in conclusion, when member states derogate from the mandatory-bid rule, they must nevertheless respect the general principle of protection of minority shareholders and ensure that they benefit from a treatment equivalent to that of majority shareholders. i have yet to see how the greek authorities will ensure such protection in the present case. therefore i have asked my services to enquire whether such protection has been achieved and to examine whether the rules of the takeover bid directive have been respected by the greek authorities in this case.
i'm the editor. - commissioner, that is precisely the problem. and i don't understand what you've been looking for all these months. the greek authorities are violating articles 3 and 5 of the 2004 directive, they are denying equal treatment, they are denying the public tender, with the funny argument that an enterprise, ote, in which the state has 28%, is state-owned. the commission will continue to act illegally in breach of the directive on the equal treatment and protection of small shareholders? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states.
member of the commission. − as i have indicated, we are investigating the greek law and its compatibility with internal market rules, in particular with regard to the free movement of capital and establishment and, if necessary, the case may be proceeded with further. in this investigation, different commission services maintain close coordination to ensure that there is a comprehensive analysis of the situation. i can assure the honourable member that, when we have concluded our investigation, we will take, at that time, the appropriate action if – and only if – our investigation proves that there is a case to answer by the greek authorities. that is the proper and legal way in which we conduct our business with every member state, and it is no different now, when we are dealing with the greek authorities. when the investigation is complete, we will make the appropriate decisions at that time and pursue it further if it is deemed necessary to do so at that particular stage.
member of the commission. − the commission adopted a report on the first year of implementation of the black sea synergy on 19 june 2008. this describes the accomplishments in a wide variety of sectors and formulates proposals to develop the synergy into a regional cooperation process. the latter include the setting of long-term measurable objectives, and also the selection of lead countries’ or organisations to coordinate actions to meet those objectives, and the creation of sectoral partnerships to co-finance the necessary projects. as the commission stated earlier, bilateral policies applied in the region – mainly the european neighbourhood polices – provide the strategic framework, and the black sea synergy complements them at a regional level. neighbourhood policy is at the bilateral level, and this is the first regional complement. the sectors mentioned in your question are high on the commission’s agenda. these are proposals to establish black sea partnerships in several fields, including transport and the environment, and member states present in the region are particularly active in promoting those initiatives. the coordination between the commission and the three member states has been reinforced both in developing the synergy and in working with the organisation of the black sea economic cooperation (bsec). further progress of the synergy requires the active involvement of a growing number of member states and black sea partners, and the black sea member states can and do play a crucial role in this.
i'm the editor. - commissioner, thank you for your answer. the 'near east cooperation' initiative is indeed your own personal stamp. but you also know that the organisation for the cooperation of the near east is now a mature institutional framework of regional organization with increased and even expanded cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. my question is: in addition to this initiative on 'near east cooperation', does the commission intend to work out the structuring of interregional relations between the european union and the countries of the near east in a more rigorous institutional framework, i.e. to create institutionally-enforced interregional cooperation?
mr president, as the rapporteur and commissioner mandelson have said, services are one of the most dynamic sectors of both the european and the world economy. however, we must agree that there is considerable scope for strengthening international trade in services with consequent benefits for both businesses and - much more so - consumers. the services sector is also of particular export importance for developing countries. the gradual opening up of their markets, based on the principle of differentiated treatment, can contribute to the transfer of technology, know-how and the improvement of their infrastructures. the main objectives for the european union are to preserve at least the status quo in terms of access to markets and to further liberalise them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the level of supply and the general course of the wto negotiations have so far been disappointing in the services sector. the negotiation of ambitious bilateral or interregional free trade agreements is becoming a necessary complement to the multilateral framework, especially after the unsuccessful conclusion of the negotiations in july. negotiations on further market opening should safeguard the regulatory rights of both the european union itself and its trading partners, particularly in the areas of public services and services of general interest.
madam president, without competitive ports the european union will not be able to meet the challenge of globalised trade - 90% of our imports are imported by sea - nor will it be able to unload our road axles in favour of sea lanes. but the ports must also finally get out of the stone age. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres and the establishment of a european network of information centres. the greek government has set in motion a very ambitious programme of providing parts of port activities to independent private providers, which will give new impetus not only to the greek economy but also to the wider region of south-east europe. i would therefore ask my colleagues to support this choice by rejecting the amendments put forward by many members of the left who seek to strengthen and undermine the importance of the greek ports programme.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr ortuondo larrea, for his excellent work, for the attention he has paid to the proposals of his colleagues and for his cooperation with the political groups. i would also like to thank the european commission for presenting a mature and comprehensive proposal which takes account of all the challenges and aspects of a modern port policy. i would like to stress in particular the issue which was finally included, following a proposal from myself and other colleagues, the attention to the island regions. the ports in these areas need to be strengthened, as it is stressed that state funding may be allowed in order to strengthen these regional and island ports and meet the challenge of economic and territorial cohesion. i believe that this is a real complement to the european union's objectives of solidarity, competitiveness and cohesion.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the announcements will be made at noon at the time of the vote. all appropriate measures are being taken to check the premises for precautionary reasons, to make the necessary repairs in strasbourg and to enable us to return to strasbourg as soon as possible for our work. we're not going back until we're sure it's safe.
mr bushill-matthews, it is not the practice of parliament to change the sitting from brussels to strasbourg without reason. there was a serious, unforeseeable reason, and with calmness and determination and consistency parliament is trying to deal with the matter. we must all show the same calmness, seriousness and maturity. and the update will be made when the data is available and the forecast will be timely, so that colleagues can keep their rooms where they should. it takes, i think, maturity, good humor, composure, to deal with this problem, because i don't think it's a serious crisis, since we avoided the other crisis that could have happened.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the mid-term evaluation of the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010 (2007/2252 (ini)) (a6-0260/2008).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her comprehensive and coherent report, which objectively assesses the progress made in implementing the european action plan 2004-2010, but also points out gaps and new data. i would like to highlight issues related to indoor air quality and its impact on human health, particularly on the most vulnerable groups such as children and the elderly. given that we spend 90% of our time indoors, it is necessary for the european commission to proceed immediately with the development of a strategy in this area and to focus on setting guidelines and on protecting citizens exposed to multiple sources of biological and chemical pollution. the appropriate framework needs to be put in place to reduce exposure to chemicals, with particular emphasis on the state of public buildings, offices and schools, to protect those who are not particularly able to defend themselves.
the commissioner, the minister and the president of the council all agree that we want to protect the territory. the soil is what gives us food for the population and we want it to continue to give us, and healthy food. the soil, we all agree, is an environment and we want to protect it. and yet i'm very afraid we're ruining it. the soil protection directive makes a clear distinction between pollution from agriculture and pollution from industry. and as far as pollution from agriculture is concerned, we see that a lot of effort is being made by the common agricultural policy, a lot of effort is being made by the health check; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. all of this is done by the agricultural sector. but the big concern is what happens to industrial pollution. we in the committee on agriculture and rural development are concerned about the impact of increasing soil pollution on our agricultural production and on the environment. this pollution is reflected in the soil and water and it is therefore appropriate to adopt indicators and limits for measuring it before we reach a state of irreversibility. i would therefore urge that, as we have done many times - and rightly so - with regard to air pollution, we should also do so with regard to soil pollution. and especially of areas that have very developed industry. i hope that the french presidency will take account of the positions of the member states and find a mutually acceptable solution to this matter.
in writing. the resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in point 4, for example, he supports israel's fight against terrorism! a people fighting for their freedom, against the occupation of their territories by the israeli army, against the blockade (economic, social and political) and the attacks on them, with underage children as victims, as in the gaza strip, as punishment for having elevated a government that is not liked by the israelis, the us and the eu, is labeled as a terrorist! the european union is also calling on the palestinian authority to take action to prevent the palestinian people from being forced to leave their homes and to return to their homes. it's a shame to make such a report! instead, the european parliament should demand that israel withdraw from the occupied west bank, tear down the wall of shame in jerusalem, stop the murderous attacks on civilians, women and children, and release all political prisoners. to demand that israel comply with the principles of international law and the relevant decisions of the ohim.
in writing. in the context of gats and through bilateral and multilateral agreements involving open or covert blackmail and threats, the eu is promoting the penetration of capital into the developing markets of services in the least developed countries, in order to increase its profits and increase its own influence. the commission's report welcomes and supports this policy. social goods such as water, health and welfare, education and so on are the target of monopolies which require the liberalisation and opening up of national markets and the privatisation of operators. capitalist restructuring will be even more devastating for workers in poorer countries. the competition between the imperialist centres, combined with the reactions of the poorer countries, has led to the failure of the latest negotiations in the wto and to a race by the powerful to conclude bilateral and multilateral agreements to strengthen their position. the concentration of attention on the direct or indirect abolition of public services, particularly in areas which are profitable for capital, the abolition of any protective barriers, the attempt to identify services with commodities and their common trading with agricultural products are only examples of the imperialist aggressiveness of european capital which does not hesitate to go to war to impose its choices.
in writing. the kke votes against the report because it accepts and follows the logic of the european commission's communication on ports, which promotes the eu's long-standing objective of privatising ports. the privatisation of ports has been hampered until now by the struggle of port workers, but it has not been abandoned by the eu, as it is an important objective of eu capital. the commission is therefore now trying to promote it by the method of 'salamification', i.e. the transfer of profitable port services to capital. at the same time, the eu is also targeting state subsidies to ports and preparing the ground for their abolition or drastic reduction in order to prepare the ground for privatisation. ports are strategically important sectors for the economies of the member states and are directly linked to their defence capability and sovereignty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the ports, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the ports. the working class, the workers as a whole, must not only be vigilant and organise their struggle against privatisation plans, but for ports that will be the property of the people within the framework of a self-reliant people's economy in the hands of the people's power.
in writing. the reckless use of natural resources for profit, capitalist restructuring, market liberalization, privatization of energy, transport and telecommunications are all leading to environmental destruction. in conjunction with the deterioration of working conditions and conditions, the privatisation of health care and insurance, health problems in general and in particular those linked to environmental risks are increasing. the commercialisation of health services and the eu's environmental policy, which by applying the pollutant trading scheme and the polluter pays principle turns the environment into a commodity, cannot lead to the prevention of risks and diseases, or even to their management for the benefit of workers, because their main aim is to increase capital profits. the report makes the right points about the failure to apply the principles of prevention and precaution and the lack of substantial and rigorous measures, the need for comprehensive studies on the basis of the most vulnerable groups, mental health, the effects of magnetic fields, etc. but it ends up with proposals that are part of the eu's antitrust policy, such as more tax breaks, financial incentives for businesses - logic that shifts the burden of protection to individual responsibility.
mr president, in recent weeks we have been following developments in the financial sector in the united states with particular interest and concern. the decision of the us government to back the world's largest insurance company with a loan of $85 billion, the nationalization of two of the world's leading mortgage groups and the bankruptcy of the fourth largest investment bank have created a climate of panic in the united states and deep concern among european citizens. and this is because, in a globalised economic environment, there is a high probability that the crisis will reach europe - if it has not already happened - and hit the banking system, but also the incomes of european citizens. the debate to be held on wednesday in the european parliament in the presence of the council and the commission should provide concrete answers to the following questions: - how ready is the european economy to withstand the possible shocks of the crisis that has broken out? - what is the operational plan and what specific measures have been taken to safeguard the economic situation of european citizens? - and finally, what policy does the european central bank intend to pursue in order to support european credit institutions?
the european union celebrates its linguistic diversity on 26 september, mr president. the events focus on the idea that languages are bridges of culture and encourage foreign language learning and interlanguage communication skills. the need to preserve, on a pan-european scale, the teaching of ancient greek and latin, the classical languages which are the basis of many words and expressions in all european and non-european languages, is completely forgotten in these events and in the commission's communications. the green paper on 'migration and mobility in the european union's education systems' is also open for consultation. they refer to the role of directive 77/486 on the schooling of the children of migrant workers and criticize the piecemeal measures taken 30 years ago on the basis of this directive. it is an opportunity to strengthen the teaching of languages to european migrant workers.
mr president, the commission, in its desire to help combat the rise in food prices in developing countries, intends to finance them with 1 billion euro. this will have the effect of financing the purchase of seeds and other supplies to increase agricultural production, feed the population, reduce inflation and lower food prices. it is politically and morally right to help the developing countries, but it is also appropriate to take the initiative to help european farmers who have also been brutally affected by the rise in food prices and more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore propose that a large part of the 1 billion euro should be allocated to help european farmers who are facing a great many problems. in conclusion, i would like to express my deep concern about the use to be made of the money to be given to these countries, because the acp countries have no model of rural development, there is no control system and i fear that the money will be lost in the bureaucracy of international organizations without finally producing any results.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. neither of these options can reverse the cyclical path of the capitalist economy towards crisis based on the over-accumulation of capital in production. the crisis in the financial system is a reflection of this trend. urban management has attempted to address the problem of over-accumulation by encouraging over-borrowing and stimulating popular consumption in venture capital and private equity funds as forms of business financing. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the financing of the structural funds, which will be adopted by the council on the basis of the commission's proposals. at the same time, the european union's policy has accelerated the full liberalisation of capital in the financial system in accordance with the principles of the capital market. risk-sharing funds and private equity funds are the offspring of this process of liberalization. any proposed attempt at greater transparency and stricter regulation of capital movements in the financial sector, i.e. in the sphere of circulation, cannot deal with all the contradictions and contradictions generated by capitalist relations of production. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. no one can give a clear definition, nor common characteristics, except for the quick profit in these schemes that have more and more control in the world economy, schemes created by the plutocracy and are exclusively exploitable by it with the help of specialized organizations in the markets. the victims of this policy are the workers who see the wealth they produce accumulating in the hands of a handful of plutocrats, who see their savings in danger of being wiped out and their pensions in danger. it is characteristic that venture capital funds and private equity funds are even exempt from any obligations that employers have towards their employees. the same is true of pension schemes - public and private - which turn workers' pension rights into capital's wealth, participating more and more in these so-called investment schemes, multiplying risks and eroding workers' rights. examples abound, and recently in the united states and england, safe financial institutions collapsed like paper towers in a day and hundreds of thousands of workers lost their savings and their pensions. the financial crisis that is plaguing markets today did not come as a flash in the pan. it was widely expected, both in time and in size. perhaps the measures taken today were also planned. the workers, who in the capitalist system of exploitation used their labour and savings to finance the surpluses of the plutocracy, are now called upon to finance their losses in the name of stability - as taxpayers. the workers and the popular masses are not convinced by the measures announced for their transparency, and their applicability and effectiveness are in doubt. they are not convinced by measures which call on them to pay once again to save the profits of capital and to maintain the system of exploitation. they express their disobedience and their insubordination to this system and to the centre-right and centre-left alliances that support and maintain it. they are fighting against injustice, inequality, the exploitation of peoples, they are fighting for radical changes in a system of popular power that will serve the interests of the working people.
madam president, on the huge and tragically topical issue we are discussing, i want to focus on one issue only: is there a right and a left answer to the issue we are discussing? is there a left and right way out of this crisis? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that on such matters, which are technical and financial, everyone here should agree. apart from the fact that those who say this are usually always right, i want to say that here the dividing lines - and this is seen through the reports - are very clear. what is the leftist view: that the market cannot regulate everything by itself and needs regulation by the state power. and regulation means even prohibitions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that transparency is important, not for markets but for citizens? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security funds of pensioners are properly monitored. and lastly, that it is very crucial that the state intervention is not at the end, as is now the case in america and the american people are paying for it, but at the right moment to avoid a crisis.
mr president, mr david hammerstein is always sensitive to matters affecting the public and i have had the opportunity to note his sensitivity in missions we have done together in the committee on petitions. so with great sensitivity he wants to present the work of the committee on petitions in an original, i would say, report because it is not the usual report that we present every year but he tries to highlight some cases that have concerned the committee. the committee on petitions is certainly trying to improve its efficiency, to meet the expectations of european citizens to secure their confidence by negotiating their cases, distinguishing between the right to refer cases to the european parliament and the right to lodge complaints with the european commission and other institutions. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to help the commission to develop its own national expertise. we're not targeting any more referrals. we are targeting reports that have substantive content and are not political in nature. that is why we want a full secretariat that will not interfere in political differences and will not determine the reporting process based on the political developments in the country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the increase in the committee's membership from 25 to 40 has not been effective. look at the voting results. how many colleagues are voting? it is never the 25 who first made up the committee on petitions. the extrajudicial procedures are a valuable outlet for citizens and fortunately we have the case of solvit for cases dealing with the internal market, an opportunity which citizens should take advantage of and, above all, that everything should be done in a transparent and independent manner so that we can respond to our work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, commissioner, the declaration of the coming year as the european year of creativity and innovation is fully in line with the objectives and priorities of the european union for the development of the european knowledge society as the main response of the europe of 27 to the economic and social challenges of globalisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. globalisation, in order to become a fair development policy that distributes its economic and social benefits across all regions, must be people-centred, giving equal access opportunities to all citizens, across the globe. and it is a very good choice on our part to combine innovation and creativity as the key dimension of the european year 2009. in this way, the so-called knowledge triangle of education, research, innovation and creativity makes the citizen the key pillar of the european union's development model. moreover, the choice of 2009 as the year of creativity and innovation is clearly a political extension of the european year of intercultural dialogue, which, mr figel, and with your participation, we are celebrating with complete success. the mobility of knowledge and creativity is an integral part of an open intercultural dialogue, a dialogue which is called to go from cultural diversity to business partnership, professional cooperation, social convergence and educational approach among citizens of the european union. it is therefore necessary to have a clear commitment and action by all the social partners, smes, educational and professional bodies and community, national and regional authorities. the main driving force behind all the 2009 actions will be the education programmes at national and european level, the community lifelong learning programmes, the actions linked to training and education of both the social fund and the other structural funds, as well as the national education programmes invited to join in that year. the sectors covered are culture, communication, labour market, youth, women, migrants, local and regional bodies, cultural industries, small and medium-sized enterprises. it was decided that this cooperation would be based on multiannual and one-year programmes with fixed funding for the actions, although parliament would like this year to have its own budget like the year of intercultural dialogue and has made amendments which, if anything, ensure that this year's funding is not mainly linked to the community lifelong learning programmes but to each programme and sectoral action. the proposal does not impose a burden on educational programmes for innovation and creativity, but mainstreams it into all community policies. finally, i would like to thank the commissioner, the commission services, the slovenian and french presidencies for the open dialogue and cooperation we have had.
member of the commission − i would like to thank you very much for a very interesting reflection, a discussion which is a confirmation of the interest in innovation, creativity and support for this agenda on the part of parliament. i noticed that the new member states were dominating the debate, which is another contribution and perhaps a good sign that enlargement of the union actually means looking at new issues and realities in the global world as well as in local needs. the american sociologist richard florida said that for an innovative society, it takes combining the three ts, and those are: talent, technology, tolerance. talent is found in all people in varying degrees, in different forms or characteristics. technology, that's a computer or a musical instrument, maybe a wheelchair, so we can develop something. and the third is tolerance, allowing everyone, including the marginalized, including the vulnerable, to participate in processes that lead to improvement, to social inclusion, to new knowledge. i'm glad that there is a continuity with 2008, because that's what it's all about, that from cultural diversity and dialogue between cultures, we develop the next dimension of the cultural agenda, which is the creative industries, the creative industries. it helps to see culture as a creative part of society, not as a consumer, not as something, sometimes, but as a permanent participant in shaping the economy as well. culture is what brings. culture is not consumption. and if we see culture in this way, then our creative industries will prosper, producing good jobs, strong economic growth, and that's the lisbon strategy, actually. so not a dichotomy of either business or culture, but a connection, of course, balanced, reasonable. the next thing that is very important for education is the transfer of knowledge into practice. often our education is isolated, fragmented and has little relevance to the needs of real practice. i do not want to say too much, but there was a concrete encouragement for the entrepreneurial sphere, for entrepreneurial education, for the responsibility not only of the european union but also of the member states to promote and support talent and innovation. it's all about modernizing education, about lifelong learning. and what i want to conclude with: innovation is not so much about the end product or the new service, but more about the new approaches, the new processes, the innovative mindset, and that's what 2009 is about, to change our perception of the importance of innovation and the value of talent and creativity. so thank you very much and i look forward to working with you.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i think that all of us in this chamber are unanimous and in political agreement that 2009 will be a year of creativity and innovation, and it is precisely our belief in the success of this programme - this year - that we have tried to reinforce even more through the codecision procedure which the european parliament has called for, so that it is a policy based on interinstitutional agreement not only in decision-making but also in the implementation and effectiveness of the programme. i would also like to stress here that the commission should take account of the concerns of my colleagues about how to implement and succeed when monitoring and submitting proposals by the national authorities and the interested parties, so that this creativity and innovation not only becomes the mainstream of all policies but also becomes a platform for mobility among artists, the cultural industries, teachers and educators. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european cultural area is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. so, taking into account the message from mr figel and his colleagues that we must follow it, i would like to stress in this chamber that intercultural dialogue and the year of creativity and innovation must be the spearhead of our communication policy in the run-up to the european elections, so that we too can put a little bit of a limit on the mobilisation of citizens for entrepreneurship, creativity and culture. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. the concentration and pluralism will continue to be the focus of discussions at national and community level, as long as today's society, today's citizens, receive direct information and the image of the word from the media. in this context, the main issue is to define and define the limits of the operation and intervention of the public and private media. in any case, the non-manipulation of information, the non-linkage with political power, the financial independence of the media, transparency in their funding, working conditions for journalists, as well as the quality and diversity of information should be ensured. in this "opening" of democratic dialogue through the media a new medium is developing, such as the weblogs, a medium that personalizes the exchange of opinions. but in many cases on critical issues - such as the environment and society - the term has been transformed into "collective protest". self-regulatory codes can at this stage provide a sufficient basis for mutual respect between users and readers without compromising the right of expression and reaction on both sides. the sme and online information exchange spaces shall be expanded, evaluated and regulated, always with democratic expression, participation and respect for human rights as a principle.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate mr ebner on his report. mountain areas are of particular importance in the eu, as in some member states they cover more than 50% of the territory, while the rural population remains a significant component. the special natural features of these areas (steep slopes, differences in altitude) place them at a disadvantage compared with other parts of the european union. the difficult production conditions for agriculture, the increased cost of transport, the inadequate transport and communication network and the cost of transporting people and services affect the economy and the daily lives of citizens living in mountain areas. on the other hand, producers in these areas are distinguished by their production of quality agricultural products and their experience in the sustainable exploitation of forest land and grasslands. these characteristics must therefore be strengthened and exploited to enhance their competitiveness and cultural identity. a strategy is therefore needed which takes account of the specific features of the regions concerned and which puts emphasis on meeting new challenges, developing alternative forms of employment and maintaining the population, but which also provides for special attention to be paid to the affected areas, such as the fire-prone mountain areas.
mr president, in recent years the debate on terrorism in the european commission and the council has almost always started with the obvious assumption of protecting our fundamental rights and ended, unfortunately almost always, with absurd legislative proposals that circumvent those rights. a typical example is the proposal we are considering today to combat terrorism on the internet: it is based on the assumption that everyone agrees with - that some terrorists use the internet to incite terrorism, and that we should stop them. but he ends up suggesting the following extreme: in order to combat terrorism on the internet, we should put in jail any citizen who writes anything that can be interpreted by any police as having the intention to 'incite' (beware, not even 'instigate') terrorism. it also suggests the guilt of anyone who directly or indirectly supports terrorist crimes! that is, anyone who dares to say or write any political opinion that can be interpreted as supporting terrorism risks arrest! in another place, it is stated that a person can be prosecuted even if he did not intend to incite terrorism with his writings, simply if his words had, according to the police, this effect! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the lefrancois report fortunately restores the self-evident principles of a democratic society to this decision in the context of the 'paradox'. it's a violation of press freedom. it protects the content of our emails from prying eyes of the authorities. and it explicitly states that any criminalization 'does not have the effect of reducing or limiting the expression of radical, critical or contradictory views in public debate on sensitive political issues, including terrorism'. i hope the council will accept these obvious changes. no one in this room underestimates the need to fight terrorism. but when the fight against terrorism becomes the pretext for measures which end up silencing our democracy, then the european parliament, as it should, does not endorse them. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities. the moral superiority of democracy is that it has many ways of responding and protecting itself, but in no way does this include the surveillance of the thoughts and so-called opinions of its citizens, let alone the suppression or criminalization of the expression of those who disagree with the 'obvious' of any majority. i would ask you to support the lefrançois report and the roure report. i'm telling you, you're not here, so listen and accept.
terrorism: what a tragedy, what a pain, what a pain, what a hate! fortunately, they taught us to hide - that's what basic rights are, and that's what they've become - to guard, to hate. but they didn't teach us a fundamental obligation: not to incite terrorism. because terrorism is not a vice. terrorism may be a criminal act that comes as a protest, it may be a criminal act that comes as a revenge, it is undoubtedly a terrifying crime, but it is not a vice. i've never seen terrorists who are vicious and die with their victims. terror is being provoked. and the more it is provoked by those who are provoked and exploited, the more it will kill. we in parliament must protect the europeans, but we must also protect the others who were killed in islamabad, in sharm el sheikh, today in algeria. it is now the duty of parliament to protect those who are not to blame. (the president cut off the speaker)
the council and the commission's proposal, which is generally supported by the report, is a deeply reactionary attack on even the most elementary civil rights and freedoms. it aims to strengthen the institutional framework of repression to be used to strike at popular struggles. through the introduction of new terminology, the violent radicalization of extreme ideologies, any expression, opinion, opinion, ideological concept that challenges the exploitative capitalist system is arbitrarily criminalized. the amendment to the euro-terrorism code also adds three new offences, which are also related to the use of the internet. this medieval institutional framework enables the repressive mechanisms to prohibit and punish the circulation of ideas under the pretext of encouraging or inciting terrorist acts. at the same time, and with the same philosophy, forms of struggle and struggles which challenge the policy of the european union and seek to overthrow it are considered terrorist acts. the response of the people must be to be unruly and disobedient to reactionary laws.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the two colleagues who have drawn up the reports we are discussing today. the fight against terrorism is undoubtedly a common and self-evident objective for all of us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be able to do so. but i would like to focus our attention on another fact: the fact that so far the many leaks in several member states of large amounts of personal data have convinced me that their protection is ineffective. i would like to remind you of the events in great britain, where the british prime minister, gordon brown, was forced to apologize to his own people. i would remind you that in the united kingdom there is a report which says that half the population of that country is exposed to the risk of counterfeiting and bank fraud? i would like to remind you that in germany there are already cases of this kind which force the german government to take strict measures. and i am sure there will be similar incidents in other countries which i happen not to know about. so when this happens, i am very reluctant to accept the transfer of personal data from one country to another. and i fear that the only result that this process will achieve is exactly what the terrorists are seeking: a reduction in the trust that the citizen should have in the state. and that must be avoided.
in writing. the acute and ongoing crisis of casino capitalism, which is burdening american taxpayers and the entire global economy with the failure of corporate speculative games, is forcing radical changes in the regulatory legal framework for transparency and controls. the commission must act immediately and propose a comprehensive framework for a common transparency standard. the policy of "less regulation" has failed miserably.
in writing. the council's proposal cannot be accepted as it stands. the discounts he gives on the protection of personal data are unacceptable. a comprehensive legal framework for personal data is necessary to ensure effective protection and non-processing by states or individuals, both at international and national level. the criticisms and proposals of the european parliament in the council proposal are generally moving in the right direction, but they are insufficient.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hammerstein report on the work of the committee on petitions because it supports the work of the committee on petitions, which is one of the main channels of communication between citizens and the european institutions. it is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the committee on petitions in negotiating and supporting citizens' cases, by strengthening its institutional role and further improving its cooperation with the european commission, the european ombudsman and the authorities of the member states.
in writing. the report on the situation and prospects of georgia's mountain regions identifies, even in passing, the particular problems facing agriculture and livestock farming in these regions, such as difficult access, high transport costs, territorial production difficulties, etc., but does not mention the responsibilities of the member states and the eu for the lack of infrastructure and the substantial absence of specific measures that would minimise the natural disadvantages of these regions for the production and marketing of agricultural products and exploit their comparative advantages. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the areas of the mediterranean, the mediterranean basin and the mediterranean basin. the same unhelpful attitude is adopted in the report which attempts to exaggerate community policy. no mention of the continuing reduction in eu agricultural funds and budgetary budgets and the negative effects of the cap. the commission has not yet taken any action to ensure that the cap is in line with the community's objectives. the fight by the farmers themselves against the cap and the demand for specific funds for mountain areas to improve infrastructure and support the agricultural production process is a necessary condition for improving living conditions and increasing agricultural income in mountain areas.
madam president, the erica iii package of legislation on safety at sea, which is closely linked to the european union's general anti-people policy, the promotion of competitiveness, the increase in the profits of shipowners and, more generally, of the european union's monopoly groups, does not address the serious acute problems of safety of human life at sea and environmental protection. the council refused to accept even the completely inadequate and far below the real needs proposals of the commission and the european parliament. in the interests of shipowners and the needs of capital's unbridled profitability, it opposes even the most elementary measures to protect human life at sea and the environment. it is trying to weaken every positive measure by eliminating one after another the measures proposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the oil spills. the commission has also rejected the incomplete proposals which establish the responsibility and the obligations of the flag states for the control of ships and the civil liability and financial guarantees of shipowners. the establishment of the civil liability of shipowners for compensation to victims of maritime accidents, in accordance with the athens convention, 2002 protocol of the international maritime organization, which the governments of the member states of the european union refuse to ratify, is a matter of serious concern. we are already witnessing today attempts to overturn the rapporteur's proposal, mr costa, that this responsibility should be extended to shipowners and ship owners in all categories of vessels in domestic and international maritime transport and in inland waterway transport.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the recent events in the gulf. in my country, greece, we have the experience of last year's shipwreck in santorini, the causes of which have not yet been investigated. the human lives lost, the enormous damage to tourism and the oil in the reservoirs, which is an environmental bomb, show us that we must not be stingy. the issue of safety at sea is of vital importance. the union must not only ensure the sustainability of european shipping but also constantly upgrade it to be competitive in the international environment, while always taking into account the protection of natural resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised by the fact that the ships are not equipped with safety belts. the systematic conduct of technical investigations following a maritime accident, based on international rules, is an effective tool for gaining a better picture of the causes of the accident. the question of the independence of the investigating bodies is therefore crucial and i regret that the council cannot understand this. the question of cooperation between authorities is also important, especially when the accident affects several member states. the question of ports of call, the system of inspections of ships, are critical aspects of safety at sea and must be extended to passing ships. these must provide guarantees that they are able to respond in the event of an accident or other disaster. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their strong attitude towards the council and hope that, after the vote, the council, understanding our position, will contribute constructively to the completion of the legislative procedure.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 11.30 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the subject of 'pirate attacks at sea'.
i would like to stress two points which i think are important in this very serious debate. the first is the legal part, and i think it is time to modernise the convention on the law of the sea so as to improve the legal basis on which the various methods of dealing with the phenomenon can be based. the second point is the operational one. the maritime dimension of the issue is important but it is not enough. so we need an operational plan that uses naval and air forces so that the response is feasible and effective. and finally, there are a number of correlations. the commissioner said that the link between piracy and terrorism is being investigated, and i would add another dimension, the link between piracy and organised crime must be investigated.
mr president, i have listened carefully to all the speakers. everything they said was right. but here the question of direct action arises. we cannot wait for the new maritime code or turn a blind eye to this situation. i would say that nato is stepping in and playing the international policeman where it is not wanted! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank mrs lucas for her report, which draws attention to the urgent need to tackle the problem of the destruction of tropical forests. despite its imperfections, the agreement reached in 2006 is an important step in this direction and its entry into force will only advance the cause you rightly defend in your report. this agreement is considerably greener and more social than its predecessor of 1994. it is clear that the international tropical timber organization alone cannot put an end to over-harvesting and illegal logging, the main drivers of which are often outside the forestry sector. i am referring to the conversion of forests for permanent or temporary agriculture, the relatively limited profitability of maintaining forests compared to other land uses and, quite simply, poverty. in this difficult context, this organisation has become one of the major actors taking practical steps to improve the sustainable management of tropical forests and therefore deserves the attention and support of the community. as regards the legal basis for the conclusion of the agreement, the commission has analysed the matter and has reached the conclusion, shared by the council and the member states, that it would maintain its original proposal. the urgent task now is to complete the procedure for the entry into force of the new international tropical forest agreement in 2009. rather than going into repetitions of the legal argumentation underlying this decision, i think it is more useful to give an answer to the other questions raised in your report and in mr markov's associated oral question. let me confirm that there is no formal link between the international tropical forest agreement and other conventions such as the un framework convention on climate change, the convention on biological diversity and the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) partnership agreements. these agreements differ widely in terms of the signatory parties to the agreements, their content, scope and organisation. the interaction between these different agreements lies in the extent to which developments in one process feed into debates and initiatives elsewhere, and in the capacity of the processes to produce synergies. in all these agreements, the eu pursues its key objective of making full use of the important contribution that trade can make to sustainable development, including by ensuring adherence to multilateral agreements and national environmental legislation. the commission is of course prepared to report to the council and parliament on the activities of the international tropical timber organisation, but i would nevertheless draw your attention to the fact that the international tropical timber organisation itself publishes annual reports. it can therefore be consulted and the commission is prepared to provide additional information if necessary. as regards forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt), the council regulation already provides for the commission to present an annual report on the operation of the licensing system. these are the elements i'm giving you. since louis michel is away and has not been able to be here tonight, i am perfectly entitled to convey to mr michel, whose services are present around me, all the remarks and observations which will give rise to this particularly interesting debate, at a time when we are thinking about the development of a number of countries, particularly african countries. so i really thank parliament for this work, mrs lucas and mr markov, and i will now listen carefully to what the various speakers have to say.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, the chairman of the committee on international trade, mr markov, also referred to the legal aspects of the subject under discussion, replacing a colleague, mrs panagiotopoulos-kassiotou, who was speaking on behalf of the committee on legal affairs. as you know, at its meeting on 19 december 2007, the committee delivered an opinion on the legal basis of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european community, of the 2006 international tropical timber agreement, submitted by the commission. the proposed legal basis is articles 133 and 175 in conjunction with the first subparagraph of article 300 (2) and the first subparagraph of article 300 (3) of the ec treaty. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament decided to propose changing the legal basis to refer to the second subparagraph of article 300 (3), which requires the assent of the european parliament rather than merely consulting it. the commission has reacted differently and is proceeding on the legal basis it proposed. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has given reasons for recommending a change in the legal basis. in this case, it is an international agreement which creates a specific institutional framework by organising cooperation procedures.
mr president, the conclusion of the 2006 international tropical timber agreement is a particularly positive development. it also reflects the consensus of 180 governments of producer and consumer countries and international organizations. the importance of the objectives of the agreement is therefore obvious. it is enough to take into account the harmful effects of illegal logging and deforestation, and in particular their negative contribution to the greenhouse effect. it is therefore necessary to encourage national policies of producing countries for the sustainable use and exploitation of tropical forests and to strengthen their capacity to implement forest law and effectively tackle illegal logging. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new agreement is implemented in a timely manner. as a union, we are called upon to ensure that only legally harvested tropical timber is imported and placed on the european market and to promote consumer information and awareness. however, we should consider whether voluntary schemes are sufficient or whether legally binding rules and standards should also be established for the marketing of legal tropical wood. the eu-ghana agreement is an example of the way forward for bilateral cooperation, and the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu-ghana agreement is fully implemented.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, the draft report we are discussing today concerns the amendment of rule 121 of parliament's rules of procedure concerning the procedure before the court of justice of the european communities. and as the article now stands, it only regulates this procedure in the event of an action by the european parliament before the court of justice. the text does not say what happens if parliament, through its president, who represents it, decides to express its views, submit observations or intervene in a preliminary ruling procedure in which the validity of a legislative act adopted by parliament itself in the context of the co-decision procedure is called into question. a question was therefore put by the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, mr gargani (whom i would like to thank for his cooperation in the preparation of this report), as to whether this procedure of intervention and submission of comments is covered by article 121. and what do we do in case it's not covered. the first answer i give in my report is that one procedure cannot be considered to be contained in the other. the word 'appeal' in article 121 cannot be considered to include the qualitatively different case of submission of observations or intervention before the court of justice. the first answer is that we cannot proceed by interpretation alone. can we stand by the practice of parliament which says that in such cases the president of parliament decides as the head and representative of our institution in judicial matters ? the answer, i think, is again no. it's safer to set up a new procedure in detail. and why is that, in particular? there have been cases in which the president of parliament decided not to follow the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs in order to defend before the court the validity of an earlier decision of parliament. it has happened twice in the recent history of this parliament. and that gives us the opportunity to say that we have to regulate the process in the first place. what is the solution proposed? after the committee on legal affairs has been set up, the president, if he agrees, shall submit his observations. if he does not agree, he shall settle this matter after discussion in the conference of presidents. why the conference of presidents? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only if the conference of presidents decides that for exceptional reasons (for example, a change in the treaties) parliament should not defend its previous position, only then is the matter referred to the plenary, because only the plenary is in a position to change its previous decision.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, as rapporteur, or if you prefer, as rapporteur of the european people's party and the european democrats, i want to say that we are debating this evening a question which concerns the organisational autonomy, the organisational sovereignty of the european parliament. parliament's rules of procedure constitute a long-term regulatory framework for the provisions in the form of regulations. i am referring to the provisions which should not only be applied to the time of amendment but also to the normal duration, the normal durability. i am forgetting to mention the specific aspects of the dispute settlement procedure described in the text of the amendment, which the rapporteur, mr botopoulos, has covered in a very good and thorough way. the text of the amendment proposed by the rapporteur is the product of a compromise between the political group of the european people's party and the european socialists. the paragraph added to the existing text of rule 121 of parliament's rules of procedure addresses the possible divergence of views between the president of the chamber and the committee on legal affairs on the decision to submit observations and interventions in the proceedings before the court of justice by parliament. the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, which are intended to make the rules of procedure more flexible, are not acceptable to the house.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have spoken and allow me to thank my colleagues who have helped me very much in this first report, which, as mr méndez de vigo, my friend íñigo, has said, i hope will not be the last. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a product of compromise between political groups in the best sense of the word. i am not referring to the least common denominator, but to the areas where we can come together and find solutions which are, i think, more reasonable and more democratic. and i believe that this solution is democratic because it gives the right to the process to develop in the most correct way. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it's the right thing to do. the logic here is that we go to the plenary only when it is absolutely necessary, that is, only when a decision which has already been taken by parliament must be changed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do it the way our layout is configured; the committee on legal affairs is consulted at the beginning, the middle and the end of the procedure. i must say here - i did not say this the first time - that there is also the possibility, in very exceptional cases where the committee on legal affairs has not had time to deliver an opinion, that the president may decide alone. however, in this case too it is expressly stated in the explanatory memorandum that the committee on legal affairs has the possibility of submitting its recommendation in any way it deems appropriate. so thank you all very much.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner wallström, whose participation has really helped us to find a common line in the communication policy and the priority programme of the european commission and the european parliament in the framework of an interinstitutional agreement which we have signed and which we will present. mrs wallström, we all know, and you have rightly said, that the first pillar, social policy, should be the priority of the communication and substantive policy of a european union which not only respects its citizens but also wants to put its own lines, structures and features in the international context of the crisis of globalisation. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but let me say that your proposal lacks individual proposals which address both specific markets and the management of important issues, such as that of copyright protection, where the commission must now resolutely tackle the issue because in its recent communication it avoided defining a specific proposal and is limited simply to technocratic issues and not to substantive issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against the amendments by the left euro group which guarantee more effective freedom on the internet, because it is one of the forms of freedom of expression as important to democracy as freedom of the press. it is positive that parliament, despite the massive pressure of the lobbies, has voiced its objections to this arbitrary blocking of the internet, not accepting the blocking of access to the internet for any user. the final balance of the report is still negative. the eu must give great weight to public debate in order to ensure both freedom of expression and the protection of personal data, in cooperation with civil society.
in writing. the european union, with its new package of proposals on electronic communications, is promoting measures to police and terrorize internet users and all electronic communications under the pretext of public security and the protection of rights by introducing 'filtering' systems. at the same time, it is bringing the internal eu market for telecommunications, the internet, video and audio production and transmission, broadcasting and satellite links under the control of a strengthened 'independent' authority to the benefit of monopoly firms. the process of liberalising and unifying markets at european level is ensuring profits and strengthening the position of european monopolies in international competition. once fully liberalised and privatised at national level, this will lead to further restructuring, over-concentration of resources and capital accumulation at the expense of workers in the sector and users. the separation of infrastructure from service provision and marketing maintains public funding of infrastructure as non-profit-making activities and sells services to private parties. the acceptance of these proposals by the centre-right and centre-left forces once again demonstrates their warm support for the choices of capital and confirms the need to change the balance of power in favour of workers for a radically different policy that will use the new technologies to their advantage.
mr president, the oil price development this year is a major scandal. a scandal that affects the lowest income households in europe, a scandal that seeks political answers, which, beyond what we will do with our adaptation to the green economy, to the pipeline policy, to the energy package policy, we must absolutely find a solution in the fight against the oil cartels. there are two oil cartels at the moment operating at the expense of the european citizen: one is the international oil cartel, in which we do not speak with one voice - we do not speak with any voice - because when opec acts it does not feel the pressure of the european union not to act. and we have a second cartel which is inside the european market, which, commissioner, your colleague, the commissioner responsible for competition, is still monitoring without bothering her, and i think that, apart from the issue of speculation, which mr goebbels has rightly raised, we are also dealing with the lack of transparency in the internal market for oil products, which is a bright spot for the european commission's competition committee, which we expect to take action for the benefit of the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − my country, latvia, has plenty of banks, and definitely insolvency could happen. i believe that we have rather an advanced market. but it happens under central bank supervision, and at least there was no turmoil whatsoever on the latvian financial markets. therefore, i can assure you that the latvian financial market is very stable and there has been no perturbation. but it is very important to emphasise the role bank supervision should play and that all the conditions for this supervision are fulfilled by commercial banks. concerning energy purchases, if the honourable member is agreeable, i will reply in writing because i think it is a very specific question and i would hesitate to give a concrete figure.
member of the commission. − with regard to the application of the community rules regarding aircraft operations, the commission has no indication of weaknesses or safety-related loopholes in the respective air safety legislation which only recently became applicable in the community on 16 july 2008. the set of technical requirements for aircraft operations is constantly undergoing changes reflecting the state of scientific knowledge. this is achieved through constant monitoring of the performance of operators; hence, at this stage, a more stringent control framework is not deemed to be required by the commission. with regard to the application of community rules regarding occurrence reporting, the commission is satisfied that all member states have set up a mandatory reporting system and collect the information in national databases. these rules contain a system of exchange of information and provide for the dissemination of information. the exchange of information is still not fully operational, because it requires the agreement on individual protocols between each member state and the commission for the updating of the central repository in accordance with the commission regulation. the member states and the commission are actively working on this matter, but information is already available at national level at this stage. the dissemination of information is correctly implemented on the basis of the commission regulation of 24 september 2007. the implementation of the protection of information has been transposed into national legislation, but only time will enable us to judge the efficiency of these provisions, which constitute the cornerstone of good reporting culture by ensuring the necessary trust of the reporters. with regard to the control of airlines with a dubious safety record, the commission can reassure the honourable member that it is applying scrupulously the provisions of the community rules regarding the imposition of operating bans on air carriers not complying with safety requirements. today in europe 54% of all aircraft ramp inspections concern european operators. that means that the commission pays equal attention to the safety performance not only of european but also of non-european airlines. thanks to its constant and close cooperation, the civil aviation authorities in member states are stepping up the supervision of their carriers. the results of the ramp inspections have been a particularly successful preventive instrument to avoid air carriers being faced with operating restrictions in the community. with regard to the standardisation inspection of national civil aviation authorities by easa, the commission should like to reassure the honourable member that it is thanks to the close cooperation and mutual trust established between the civil authorities in the member states and easa that sustainable solutions are being agreed and worked out between the agency and the inspected authorities. evidence of the good cooperation is the fact that the agency has been able to double the number of inspections since the relevant rules were adopted in 2006, and the safeguard measures imposed on a member state at the end of that year were lifted this week.
i am very grateful to the commission for its reply, but i wonder, commissioner, whether air accidents are not so frequent as those of flights, but are still multi-vector accidents which create doubts in public opinion and undermine confidence in our policy and our controls. i have not seen you propose any measures, nor have i seen you give the security agency any new responsibilities or tasks. it is not just the airlines, it is also the civil services responsible for checks in the member states. the blacklisting is also a question of criteria. will you reinforce them? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will be able to take a decision on the matter.
member of the commission. − i can assure you that the safety system in europe is at the highest level. it is very clear that it is implemented, and we have all the measures in place. unfortunately it does not prevent accidents from happening. i am very sorry that people have been killed, but it is not because safety levels in the eu have not been satisfactory. as soon as we know the results, what caused the accident, we will carry out analyses, and if there is a need to strengthen some of the measures, it will be done. but today i can assure you that europe’s aviation safety meets the highest standards that exist anywhere in the world.
member of the commission. − for any agency, my view is that direct financing through taxpayers’ money is the best way because, with its own income, you can never guarantee that public service, exactly, is delivered. so, i believe that the best way is for the budget to finance any agency, but if there is the possibility of supplementary funds being raised, it should be evaluated. in any case, each budget is discussed according to the procedure and tough regulations imposed by european legislation.
member of the commission. − the eu currently relies on nuclear energy for 30% of its electricity production, and it accounts for two thirds of the eu’s carbon-free electricity. by 2030, energy demand in the eu is expected to grow by 20% and electricity demand by 38%. as a result, the share of electricity in the final energy demand would grow from 20% to 23%. electricity-generation capacity is forecast to grow by 31%, but, under the primes baseline assumptions studied by the commission, the share of nuclear energy will decrease from 30% to 20% in electricity generation. also, the international energy agency in its recently published eu energy policy review concluded that ‘eu nuclear generating capacity will decline from now on unless significant investment is forthcoming in the near future for plant lifetime extensions and the replacement of facilities reaching the end of their operational lives.’ it is for each individual member state to decide whether or not to rely on nuclear power for the generation of electricity and launch new projects or go ahead with a nuclear phase-out policy. should the member states decide to invest in new nuclear power generation, the commission will exercise its available powers to ensure that the new projects in this field meet the highest standards of safety, security and non-proliferation as required by the euratom treaty. the assurance of the high level of safety, security and safeguards throughout the entire lifecycle of a nuclear installation also represents a priority in the context of eu enlargement, and in relations with third countries through the instrument on nuclear safety cooperation. the commission is following the overall picture of ongoing investments in the nuclear energy sector in the eu. in 2007, the commission adopted the nuclear illustrative programme which provides an overview of the status of the eu nuclear sector. at present, the commission is updating this communication, as part of the commission’s overall strategic energy review. it should be available before the end of 2008. in addition, the commission launched two initiatives to further debate the future of nuclear energy and to identify requirements for its development. the first is the ‘high level group on nuclear safety and waste management’ focusing on identifying safety issues for priority handling and recommending actions to be taken at eu level. the second, the ‘european nuclear energy forum’, intends to provide a platform for a broad and transparent stakeholder discussion on the opportunities and risks of nuclear energy.
madam president, commissioner, i understand that we will have to wait until the end of the year to see the results of these studies in order to draw some better conclusions. i would like the commissioner to comment on the following information which has been known since last year: russia is building a floating nuclear plant that will be completed in 2010 and will be sent to a remote part of russia. it is planned to build six more and to distribute them to countries which may request them and have shown interest. how do you comment on that from a security standpoint?
member of the commission. − i will perhaps start with the second point. i think we need to be aware, from the debate on oil, that we could face a similar situation with an unpredictable growth in demand in other sectors, and food is the one that is a really basic need for people. so we need technology to give us a broader opportunity. broader opportunity definitely comes when you use things that usually just go to waste. so for this purpose i believe that we clearly need to promote second-generation. i would say that perhaps even this is not sufficient, because there we do not have the risks. we need new technologies. it is not just that we would like to replace oil with biofuels, but that we have technology that really guarantees that we do not have this competition, or limited competition. that is why – even if in theory all technologies should be equal – i still believe that the second generation is worthy of particular attention. with regard to education, i believe that this is a broader part of education. there are educational programmes, because generally this is not education about biofuels but about sustainability, energy efficiency and a quite different attitude towards the environment and knowing that whatever you use is taken from somewhere and is always doing damage. sometimes, in the debate on biofuels, we forget that oil is also produced and sometimes it is produced from tar sands. recently some pictures have been published about where it is produced. it is not a farm and it is really also a challenge. so i believe that each of us, when using energy, should try to use it as efficiently as possible and follow the trend of using greener energy, supporting this even it if it costs a bit more.
member of the commission. − the commission recognises that there is greater demand in the european union for biodiesel as a replacement for diesel fuel rather than bioethanol, which could reduce petrol consumption. with this in mind it can be expected that in the years to come biodiesel consumption in the eu will remain higher than that of bioethanol. nevertheless, the commission believes that it is not necessary to have technologically specific targets as both biodiesel and bioethanol can have an important role to play in reducing the oil dependence of the european transport sector. having said this, it is second-generation which promotes biodiesel or bioethanol independently, but still demand in the eu market is definitely bigger for diesel. i do not believe that we should discriminate between ethanol and diesel, but we should encourage second-generation instead of first-generation.
member of the commission. − i would be in the 35% camp, because it is important that, if we put requirements that completely ban biofuels from the market and there is too high a risk of leverage, we will move to oil – and deeper – and perhaps to coal and liquid technology. in my opinion this is worse than really keeping 35% as the threshold, and a 35% threshold is clearly saving co2. so i will stay with 35%. it is now up to negotiations with parliament and council: if it comes to be a different figure, well, i will live with this figure, but i think 35% is rather tough, because in the college, when the figure was discussed, we were also in different camps, and this is already compromised from the two camps: one that believes in biofuels and one that is afraid of biofuels. so 35% was actually the compromise.
member of the commission. − we are very positive about the development of geothermal, and i believe that the draft directive now being discussed, and the climate-energy package, will facilitate the use of renewable power, including geothermal. why is it not being used now? well, partly because it is not sufficient to focus on the renewables. it is much easier to pass the costs of fossil fuels to the consumers, because to use renewable energy, like geothermal, you need capital investment, and for this you need a specific environment for, and focus on, renewables. so i believe that a renewable energy source, like geothermal, will have much better developments in the eu, not only for power production but, for example, in copenhagen it is used for district heating. so there are different applications of this technology, and it will grow in the european union. concerning energy content: it is true that biofuels have a low energy content and you need bigger volumes, and i think we should not be mistaken that we will replace oil with biofuels. but at least here i drive a car that is powered by biofuel, and its only disadvantage is that i need to go to a service station much more often, but i do not mind this. that is why i would say that it is different, but not so different as to make me change my behaviour. that will be a problem with the electric car. at the moment it is very much slower, at least at this stage – city-run cars. perhaps there is a need for some kind of hybrid, because if you travel a longer distance, electric vehicles might not be satisfactory – but for biofuel-driven vehicles there is no problem.
member of the commission. − you know that the commission yesterday decided on a proposal for the second roaming package − this time on sms and data roaming. parliament will remember very well that this analysis of the market was done at the request of parliament which, during the voice roaming package in june last year, put in article 11 of the regulation that the commission should come back to sms and data roaming in due course in 2008. that is what the commission did, and you know that we have proposed price caps. that brings me to the question of price fixing. no, we do not fix prices. we fix ceilings under which operators have the flexibility to compete and to innovate, either with roaming offers below the maximum oral tariff ceilings or with other packages which customers might then chose. so, flexibility is given. as regards sms, the evidence suggests that prices have been more or less static over the last year and remain at levels that cannot be justified by reference to the underlying cost, and the sms market presents roughly the same problems as the market in voice roaming. in february this year, i went to the gsm association world congress in barcelona and warned the industry. i spoke personally with industry leaders to tell them that they had time to bring down prices by themselves and that the deadline was 1 july. what we saw is that the prices between last year and this year for sms roaming did not move at all. our proposal therefore is to cap the retail charge at a maximum of 11 cents and the wholesale charge at a maximum of 4 cents. turning to data roaming, we have included actions to deal with the very famous cases of bill shocks where customers have to pay several thousand euros when they come back from one or two weeks abroad, because they used their mobile phone for data downloading in the same way as at home where a data download per megabyte could cost between 5 and 15 cents. abroad, it can go up to 16 euros per megabyte so you can imagine what kind of bills you can receive if you are now aware of what is happening. that is why we have proposed several measures. the first is a transparency measure to inform citizens crossing a border what data roaming will cost. the second is a measure where the consumer can fix, together with his operator, a ceiling over which he does not want to pay any more so that communications are then cut; and the third is because we have seen that the whole problem here comes from highly overpriced wholesale costs which one operator imposes on another. that is why we propose a wholesale cap at one euro per megabyte, hoping that normal price structures can then be developed and offered to consumers.
madam president, before i put my supplementary question, i would like to congratulate commissioner reding on the european parliament's vote today in favour of the electronic communications package. it is another initiative that bears your stamp, commissioner, as does the policy you have vigorously promoted on roaming charges. but does this policy on roaming risk encouraging european mobile operators to adopt a practice followed in non-european third countries where consumers pay not only when they call but also when they receive calls?
in writing. the concentration of ownership of the sme system reinforces monopoly phenomena and undermines the necessary pluralism. access to information today seems limitless and at the same time lacking. business groups own a large proportion of media, internet service providers and are also their best advertised customers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. as regards freedom of expression online, the eu must give great weight to public debate in order to ensure both freedom of expression and the protection of personal data. the debate is still in its infancy. in cooperation with civil society, solutions can be found.
in writing. obesity has reached epidemic proportions. the european champions are the greeks, with 3 out of 4 overweight and a 956% increase in ready meals. to combat it, drastic measures must be taken here and now: - reduction of vat on fruit and vegetables. - the introduction of a reduced vat rate on health food products and the protection of traditional products; - proper nutrition from infancy. - school education (control of food in school canteens, physical exercise). - prohibition of advertising and misinformation about products with a high fat, sugar and salt content. - clear and compulsory labelling of nutrients so that consumers can make healthy food choices. - ban artificial trans fats and flavour enhancers in industrially prepared prepared foods. the european commission's free school fruit and vegetable scheme, funded by european funds of €90 million per year and supplemented by national funding, will be launched in early 2009. the greek government must secure the funds to start this programme immediately.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues have presented to you a series of requests for a better course for the european school, which is a beacon for the other schools in the member states. i would like to know how much local legislation affects european schools, because we have seen differences between schools operating in the netherlands, belgium, germany, luxembourg; the commission has also been able to identify the differences in the way children with learning difficulties were treated in brussels and in luxembourg. but let's continue with the students: why are they divided into categories? why should they have to rigorously plan the selection of bachelor's courses before teaching those courses? why should religious and classical languages be taught according to the number of students in the classroom? why not the history of their country of origin? why not teach them in their own language? and now to the staff: his merit-based selection from all countries will give a uniformity to the faculty. do you check the selection in all countries? the management staff rotates, but there are people who stay on for over twenty years as managers. why can't the directors have a choice? flexibility, as you said, will bring better results. the authorities of the member states should ensure that a school is not just for 'noble' immigration but is a model school for other immigrant schools.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 september 2008.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the next european council, including the situation of the international financial system.
president of the council. - madam president, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, as you will readily understand, after the moment of emotion, humanity and solidarity we have just experienced with the testimony and arrest of ingrid betancourt, it is difficult to speak before your assembly. but we must face up to the facts. the european council meets on 15 and 16 october. this new session is of particular importance at a time of crisis and instability which calls for the european union to show political will, take initiatives and take decisions. the economic and financial situation will dominate the work of the european council. as i said to you on 23 september, this crisis is not a purely american crisis. this is a european crisis today. it's now an international crisis. the crisis of confidence in the markets and in our financial sector has worsened in recent days. the union must take its responsibilities. the presidency of the council is determined to spare no effort to increase the coordination and coherence of national initiatives. it did so on saturday with the meeting of the european members of the g7, in the presence of the president of the european commission, the president of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank. it did so yesterday at the meeting of the council of ministers for economic and financial affairs. it will do so again at the european council on 15 and 16 october. we have reached agreement among europeans on the need for close consultation on the management by each member state of the effects of the crisis on its own financial system. european concertation is a reality. there are constant contacts between governments, administrations, central banks, banking supervisors and the european commission. as jean-claude trichet has said, we are responding to the crisis with our own resources and structures. we are not a federal state like the united states of america. we have nothing to be ashamed of, we have to deal with the institutional context that is ours. it's time to move. the key is that europeans act together and take responsibility alongside the european central bank. in his statement of monday 6 october, the president of the european council, nicolas sarkozy, reiterated the unanimous will of the european union's leaders to take all the necessary measures to ensure the stability of the financial system. we must welcome the role played by the european central bank and the other central banks - the us, the uk, sweden, switzerland and canada - which have just decided to cut interest rates by half a percentage point. we must continue to act without delay. as the finance ministers said at their meeting yesterday, there is an urgent need to reassure depositors and to provide a liquidity boost to the interbank market. that's how we'll restore trust. we also need to make a major overhaul of financial governance in a direction more favourable to the long-term financing of the economy, to the mobilisation of europeans' savings, and to a reduction in financial volatility and speculation. all this is not incompatible with maintaining a competitive and innovative financial industry. we are relying heavily on the proposals of the european commission to improve this governance. they must be swift and bold. the member states agreed yesterday on an immediate response to ensure the stability of financial institutions by recapitalising them or by any other means required by the circumstances. in this respect, the guidelines announced this morning by the british prime minister are welcome. they are clearly in line with the commitments made by the heads of state or government on 6 october. france, for its part, envisages a legal structure allowing the state to take, where appropriate, financial contributions when and where necessary. the president of the european council will continue to build on these various initiatives and proposals to take appropriate initiatives to strengthen european coordination. we must also safeguard and guarantee the interests of depositors. the minimum level of deposit protection in europe is to be raised, as you know, to 50,000 euros. some member states, and many of them, have announced their decision to raise this protection to eur 100 000. in the present exceptional circumstances, flexibility in the application of the community state aid rules and the provisions of the stability and growth pact is necessary. the european commission, under the decisive impulse of its president, is helping us in this very particular case. international coordination at the g7 meeting this weekend is also needed to restore confidence. as the japanese finance minister, the current chairman of the g7, has said, the g7 must send a strong message, jointly from the finance ministers and central bank governors. that is what the central banks have just done and it is a decisive and very positive signal from this point of view. we must perhaps involve the major emerging countries in stabilising the markets, given the international nature of this crisis. this is the whole point of the enlarged g8 which the president of the european council has called for by the end of the year. finally, the international monetary fund must be the main forum for discussion between the major players in the world. it must regain the role of financial policeman that it had originally and, as was foreseen in the aftermath of the second world war, it must be concerned with monetary and financial stability, and not merely with monitoring the situation in the emerging or developing countries. beyond these extremely important developments on the economic and financial crisis, the council presidency wished that the council could discuss the climate/energy package. under the decisive impetus of the german presidency, the european council in march 2007 made ambitious commitments on the environment. we want to preserve this environmental ambition of the package presented by the commission, on which we want, i say clearly, agreement with your assembly at first reading. we must be ready and in a strong position for the two meetings in poznań in december 2008 and in copenhagen at the end of 2009. however, the current economic downturn is likely to exacerbate the concerns of some of our partners and our industries. we must, together, address these concerns. we must look for the flexibilities we can provide without, however, calling into question the objectives, the fundamentals and the broad balances of the package proposed by the commission, because what is at issue in this package is the development model we will have to manage tomorrow, a development model that is being called into question today by the economic and financial crisis we are going through. the presidency also wished to see the subject of energy security raised, in accordance with the conclusions of the extraordinary european council of 1 september. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the energy sector. we want to adopt guidelines and directives which respond to the legitimate concerns of many member states and, more particularly, those member states which are most dependent on the energy supplies of the central and eastern european member states. we must therefore set out the guidelines so that the commission will be able to make proposals to us in november to strengthen the energy security of our continent. in line with the suggestion made by ireland in june, which was accepted by all the other member states, the european council will review the question of the lisbon treaty. the institutional question, as we see today, is more necessary than ever and at the centre of our concerns. as you know, the presidency hopes to have a common approach by december. the irish prime minister, brian cowen, confirmed to the president of the european council that he would present to his fellow heads of state and government the study commissioned by the irish government on the analysis of the motives for the 'no' vote and the conclusions drawn from it. he also announced during his visit to paris the setting up of an ad hoc parliamentary committee whose ideas would feed into the irish government's ideas by the end of november. the irish government is committed to making concrete proposals. at the same time, the presidency calls on those who have not yet done so to complete the ratification procedure of the treaty. the instability we are experiencing today is an additional justification for equipping the european union with a renewed legal and institutional framework. we need it more than ever, we need it urgently. the european council will also be invited to adopt the european pact on immigration and asylum, the text of which was the subject of political agreement on 25 september in the justice and home affairs council. i do not want to go back on what mrs betancourt said, but it is extremely important. immigration remains an opportunity for europe. the european pact on immigration and asylum aims to give a new impetus to migration policy and is part of the balanced framework of the comprehensive approach implemented since 2005 and the proposals made by the european commission. it sets ambitious guidelines for the future in order to move towards a genuine common migration policy. the pact covers all aspects of managing migration flows, not only the fight against illegal immigration and border control, but also new areas such as economic immigration, genuine harmonisation of asylum and the development of countries of origin. we believe that this is absolutely essential at a time when the schengen area has been enlarged this year. the european council welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the agreements reached on 12 august and 8 september, concerning the withdrawal of russian troops, which is a condition for resuming contacts on the future partnership agreement between russia and the european union. the relationship between the european union and russia will be the subject of a full and thorough assessment by the commission and the council in the run-up to the next summit, scheduled for nice on 14 november. at the same time, the european union is determined to continue to support its eastern neighbours in their efforts to modernise their economies and democratic systems. i would like to remind you of the importance of the outcome of the eu-ukraine summit held in paris last september, which marked an unprecedented step forward in relations between the european union and ukraine. in the same spirit, the european council will call for the strengthening of relations between the european union and moldova, where i was last monday, through a new agreement specific to that country, more ambitious than the previous one, allowing - if the next elections in that country take place successfully - its association with various union policies. the general affairs and external relations council will also be responsible for carrying out an initial examination of the proposals on a future eastern partnership of the european union which the commission intends to present as from next november. madam president, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the french presidency is faced with certain urgent matters. it is a crisis management presidency, but it is also a presidency which must not sacrifice its priorities. a europe that acts to meet the challenges of today is the title we wanted to give to the french presidency's work programme a few months ago. this ambition is more than ever at the heart of our action. it must guide the work of the european council on 15 and 16 october more than ever.
before i give the floor to the president of the commission, i should like to welcome the delegation from the regional parliament of the canary islands, led by its president, mr castro cordobez. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, a french prime minister, edouard balladur, had made a statement. he said that complete free market leads to jungle; and he added that our society, our democracy, our institutions, cannot allow the jungle. but, nevertheless, we are now in the jungle and paying for the absolute freedom of the market that the united states had. if you think that for one dollar of real investment, american banks were lending 32 and european banks only 12, you understand the liquidity that existed in the banking market of the united states. now i fear that neither mr paulson's measures nor the measures of the american government will save the world from the crisis. i think that from now on we must set strict rules for the future.
in writing. the statements by the council and the commission and the positions of the political representatives of capital in the debate ahead of the forthcoming eu council summit signal the intensification of the anti-people policy for managing the capitalist economic crisis, which is spreading exponentially in the eu member states and in the developed countries in general, revealing more clearly the reactionary character of the eu. the above statements, as well as the state-monopoly interventions announced by ecofin and the bourgeois governments in the eu member states, the acquisitions with public money of over-indebted banks and other monopoly business groups, are measures to support eu capital, an attempt to not shake the economic and political dominance of the monopolies. it turns out that capitalism has no solutions for the benefit of the people. in the face of the danger of crisis, the eu and the bourgeois governments of its member states are stepping up their attack on the working class and the popular strata. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the only way out for the workers is to be undisciplined, to break with the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments of its member states.
in writing. with provocative audacity and without any evidence, even as a pretext, the political forces that support and serve the eu signed a joint resolution condemning the government of belarus for the elections of 28 september. the same is true of the proposed resolution by political forces of the european left party via the gue/ngl. it is obvious that the eu and the parties of the euro-path (nd, pasok, syn/syriza, lao) are siding with the representatives of imperialism who are grouped in the so-called opposition of the nato servant mr milinkiewicz who received the "amazing" percentage of 6% in the previous presidential elections and in the recent parliamentary elections did not elect any mps. the results of the elections are a humiliating response to the imperialists of the eu and the usa because the people of belarus support the government's policy against nato and the eu. this is what infuriates and corrupts the political forces of the euro-nostrad. this time, without the pretext of the so-called political prisoners who had been released, or the justification of the equal promotion of candidates, which they acknowledge existed, they blatantly and arbitrarily characterized the new parliament as having questionable democratic legitimacy. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in belarus, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
mr president, the turco decision is an important legal and democratic step. it tells us that the concept of public interest contained in regulation no 1049/01, which defines citizens' access to documents, must be interpreted in such a way that the right to a wider knowledge of the facts which led to the adoption of a decision is considered more important and takes precedence over the safeguarding of the internal procedure by which the decision was taken. the turco decision tells us that it is important for citizens to know - they have a right to know - not only how the decision was made, not only the reasons for it, but also the documents on which it was based so that their knowledge is as broad as possible. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council and the commission are able to take account of the decisions of the european parliament and the council of ministers, and to ensure that the council and the commission are able to take account of the decisions of the council and the commission. there are, of course, perhaps some problems with the so-called confidentiality of documents, especially with regard to the opinions of the legal service. i'm a lawyer and i know it! but that should in no way lead us to say that these documents should remain secret because they can lead to some problems. i think it should lead us to say that the whole culture of transparency must change. transparency is balance, respect and in the process but not fear of knowledge. i'll close with one last observation: i think it is important to see here the difference between what is actually happening in the council and in parliament, in our institution. in parliament, access to both meetings and documents is almost complete. i think that with the turco decision it is possible to harmonize upwards for the council.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is clear from our debate is that we really need to strengthen transparency and communication, because there is a misunderstanding, as you have pointed out, on the part of our citizens, of the way in which europe works. and better transparency and better communication go hand in hand. as i said, we have signed a political agreement with mrs wallström and mr vidal-quadras to improve communication on the ground. we must also, and mr cappato and mrs jääteenmäki are right on this point, be more transparent and explain how we work. that is why the council will make a special effort to promote new technologies. even reading the arguments that have been given to me, i agree with mr cappato that just because we give away millions of documents, it does not mean that there is better transparency. the main thing is to provide the documents that are requested and quality documents. the coreper i documents, for example, that you have cited, are available, are being put online. they have not always been timely, for lack of technological means. now we have these technologies and we're going to make sure that we can solve this problem that you're talking about. to be honest with you, there is also a balance to be struck with what the legal basis is, with what the real transparency and deliberations are, and there are a number of deliberations, diplomatic issues that are actually quite difficult and where freedom of speech, of expression, of decision, must be ensured. i may seem too conservative, but i think we also need to look at this balance. under the french presidency we have started the revision of regulation 1049/2001 and we must act quickly. mr cashman is quite right about that plan and we are moving quickly with his help, we are moving quickly in coordination with him and we hope to make good progress quickly by the end of the presidency. as i said, we must be careful, and as mr cappato has emphasized, we must put quality before quantity, because too much information kills information. the citizen then faces the problem of sorting information. and this also exists at european level and we must be able to help the citizen to sort things out quite freely. what does that mean? this means, as i said in my presentation, that the citizen must be fully informed about practical information, about his rights, about the consequences of decisions, about the way in which they are taken, about the legal basis and, from this point of view, it is true that we must consider the means at the council's disposal. i think that at commission level you are faced with the same situation when you have to explain, for example, on what legal basis decisions are taken which concern, in particular, small and mediumsized enterprises, and you have only one or two people in the member states or in the institutions who are likely to answer these questions, and these people are on holiday. well, you have either citizens or small and mediumsized businesses who are forced to wait two or three months for a response. i think that is as serious as access to official documents. finally, we must give our debates a political dimension. in particular, as the european elections are approaching, i know that the european parliament is fully committed to this, and you can count on the french presidency to ensure that this duty of transparency, this duty of explanation, this duty also of practicality, of concreteness, is implemented more because, if we do not do this, and i agree with mr cashman, it is the extremists who will advance in the next european elections and we do not want that.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, the turco judgment will be respected and implemented by the commission too, of course. the court judgment actually said that in this case the council was wrong, that the council has to correct its procedures, and i am sure that the council will follow the judgment. that is the starting point of this discussion. however, it has been partly confused with the discussion we had on regulation no 1049/2001. the turco judgment is one thing, and then there is regulation no 1049/2001. as you know we presented a proposal and are in the process of dealing with regulation no 1049/2001 and how that regulation should ultimately be designed. i think there must also be some confusion about what i said. i did not ask for more time. i was explaining the fact that the modernisation of our information technology tools has to be done continuously, it cannot be done overnight. we already have a register. we are complementing the register with a number of things, such as comitology and all the expert groups. however – and i was very honest in trying to answer one of the five questions – i am not convinced that the best thing is to have one register. it is like having a telephone book for the whole of europe instead of trying to have different national telephone books. are you sure that this is better, to have one huge telephone book for the whole of europe instead of having different entry points? because the definition you asked for today in your specific question is the definition which is in a certain paragraph, which also includes audiovisual form. this is a very wide definition. are you sure it will be helpful to citizens to have one huge entry point for all of this? let us discuss that, but i am not sure that there is one simple solution like that. so we do not share that view. modernising our tools in this area is a constant thing that we have to discuss all the time, because things happen so quickly. but we seem to share the same objectives of having openness and transparency and access to documents. that is the starting point and that is what we will continue to fight for and we will of course follow the turco judgment. on the specific issue where i mentioned that we have a target date for 2010, that is on a very specific project and i was just giving you the date for this. but in general we do not and should not need to ask for more time. this is something we have to do on a daily basis: to provide more openness, more transparency, to serve citizens because they need to know, and it has to be part of the culture and the attitude of all the institutions. along with your fellow members i was able to applaud your good speech, mr cashman, because it contains the starting point for what is required now: to open up, to create access. i think that having our deliberations in the open will also help people to make their own informed judgment of what is going on and of why we have so many important things on our agenda.
mr president, as a member of the committee on international trade, i am naturally also concerned with relations between the european union and china. i have therefore seen, on the basis of 2007 figures, that the trade deficit to the union's detriment amounted to some eur 160 billion. this deficit is a consequence of the significant barriers to access to the chinese market. it is also explained by the competitive advantage of chinese products, which is based on economic, social and ecological dumping. but it is not just this uneven trade relationship that is causing concern. the incidents of unsafe products of chinese origin are also a cause for concern. we must therefore - and the message is addressed in particular to the commission - ensure that intensive and effective checks are carried out on products of chinese origin in the interests of public health and the protection of european consumers, as well as the competitiveness of european products.
member of the commission. − madam president, i presume you had expected to see commissioner mandelson here tonight, but as you probably know he left the commission, and i won the lottery to take over from mr mandelson here tonight. having been directly involved in the negotiations in geneva at the wto with responsibility for the agricultural sector, i am however happy to be here with you tonight. while the negotiations in geneva in july did not succeed, the doha round has not been suspended. on the contrary, it has actually been kept active, even over the past few weeks, and it is our intention to contribute constructively to this activity in order to facilitate full ministerial resumption in due course, once the necessary technical analyses now being undertaken by key countries on the remaining problematic issues have been completed. the negotiations that took place in july delivered some real progress. the emerging package outlined a possible balanced outcome which respected the european union’s key requirements in agriculture while delivering valuable benefits for our industrial manufacturers. a broad outline of the agreement has emerged on different key issues, including the overall reduction in trade-distorting domestic support in the agricultural sector, the scope that developed and developing countries would retain to shield a limited number of sensitive and special products from tariff cuts, the swiss formula used to determine tariff cuts for industrial products, and the flexibility to be made available to developing countries to shield a number of industrial products from those cuts. in the assessment made by the commission, this package contains real value for european business and consumers and would ensure an international legal framework for agriculture fully in line with the 2003 reform. in our opinion, the emerging package also contains real development value for the poorest countries in the world. a round concluded on this basis would reduce world tariffs by half and, while developing countries would contribute one-third of the savings, they would benefit from two-thirds of the increased market access. it would also ensure that oecd economies join europe’s initiative in providing least developed countries with duty free and quota free access to their markets – what we normally call our ‘everything but arms’ initiative. we would also have succeeded in locking in real farm reform in the united states. with an agreement, the united states would have had to reduce their trade-distorting domestic support or subsidies to usd 14.5 billion. without it, subsidies can now go up to usd 48 billion under the new farm bill. it would also serve our interests to get permanent international legal protection of our reformed common agricultural policy. a deal on this basis would turn the emerging countries into custodians of the multilateral trading system which needs to be preserved but also to be strengthened. we would anchor them more firmly into the rule-based system of global trade which is essential for the future. it was therefore a disappointment that it proved impossible to close the discussions on the doha modalities in july because of continuing disagreement on a very specific point in the agricultural field. the difficulties arose over the issue of special agricultural safeguards for developing countries, the so-called ssm, essentially within the g7 grouping. india and china were unable to agree with the united states over the triggers and the remedies to be put in place for this safeguard when it is used to breach pre-doha-round rates. since early september, contacts have been taking place at senior official level to try to resolve this continuing difference of views, but we have not yet been successful on this issue. though the european union remains firmly committed and engaged, it is actually unclear how far discussions will pick up in the coming weeks. as normal, we will maintain strong dialogue with parliament and we will of course hope for your continued support on this issue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the cost of the doha round shipwreck is not just lost opportunities, lost profits and a climate of economic uncertainty. just as critical is the systemic cost, the institutional cost. i am referring to the blow to the credibility of the world trade organization. of course, we all want to reach an agreement. but this cannot be done at any cost to the european union. the successful conclusion of the current round of negotiations requires a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced agreement. we therefore expect substantial concessions from both our developed trading partners and the dynamically developing countries. we therefore ask the commission to show a decisive negotiating attitude in future. the cap has been revised. i ask: was it used as a bargaining chip? on the contrary, the commission unilaterally made a series of further offers in the agricultural sector which were not met. i could ask the commissioner for agriculture a lot of questions. i can only settle for one: is the area of geographical indications an integral part of the agricultural negotiations? our commitment to the multilateral trading system is self-evident. we look forward to a trade governance that aims at managing globalisation effectively and at the fairest redistribution of its benefits. in conclusion, i would like to say that i personally believe that the negative integration, that is to say the removal of barriers in the context of the wto, has not been sufficiently accompanied by the required positive integration in terms of regulatory systemic convergence.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, why is it so important that this effort and this debate, especially at this time, be about the symbols of the european union? i would say for two reasons: the first is to show that we, as the european parliament, in the way we have always acted, that the european union is something beyond the texts. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why would you do that? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe. a political plan, an idea of europe. and i think that needs to be kept alive especially this time of year. and the second reason is for what's behind the symbols: the european union is not only a symbol of the european union, but also a symbol of the symbols behind the symbols, that is, of the idea of the european union acting together through values. this is the symbol: common action through values that we need in this time more than ever. if we were to say that the crisis we are all going through, and i am not just referring to the economic crisis but also to the institutional and moral crisis europe is going through at the moment, is the symbol of the times, the symbol of the difficulties of the times, i think the european union's response should be united action, the ability to move forward together. there is no more appropriate, and at the same time more bitter, example than that of iceland these days. a country that is not part of the european union, but which is being shaken so much by this economic storm that its inhabitants are wondering whether they should really be in europe, this 'europe of ideas'.
in writing. we are voting against the report because it is essentially aimed at maintaining the savage exploitation of workers. it does not treat undeclared work from the point of view of the interests of workers, but on the contrary from the point of view of the need to maintain the profitability of capital and to strengthen the competitiveness of the eu monopolies, within the framework of the lisbon strategy. this is why, instead of proposing measures to control and punish employers, it proposes incentives for capital, such as 'reduction of non-wage costs', i.e. reducing or exempting them from the obligation to pay social security contributions and tax rebates, reducing the financial burden on enterprises, generalizing informal employment contracts ! such measures not only do not tackle undeclared work but, on the contrary, by giving full immunity to capital, lead to its increase, to an even greater violation of labour, social and insurance rights, to the intensification of the exploitation of the working class. the working class cannot expect any pro-people solution from the eu, the european parliament and the political staff of the bourgeoisie. the struggle of workers with the class labour movement to overthrow the anti-people policy of the eu, of bourgeois governments in the member states, with the aim of radical changes in the level of power can guarantee that the wealth produced by workers will be used for the welfare of the people.
in writing. the european parliament is challenged by the proposal to take the lead in promoting and intensively using the eu symbols, thus seeking to 're-enact' the so-called euro-constitution on its own initiative, not only in its modified version, the lisbon treaty, recently rejected by the people of ireland, but in its original form, the constitutional treaty, also condemned by the people of france and the netherlands. in this way, the european parliament is once again becoming the pillar and the protagonist of reactionary eu reforms, brutally ignoring the will of the people of france, the netherlands and ireland and the obvious sentiments of all the other european peoples, who are not moved by the politics, institutions, values, visions and symbols of european plutocracy, which expresses the anti-people image of the eu. the peoples of europe must intensify their struggle for the final burial of the reactionary euro-constitution, to fight for the weakening of the imperialist eu of poverty, injustice, war and repression, with the prospect of its dissolution, with the aim of establishing their own power, which will establish new institutions and symbols that will meet their own needs and values.
in writing. the scattered wishes cannot hide the anti-people nature of the report's proposals. the weight of the report falls on the reactionary position of 'water management based on demand' to result in a series of measures that are essentially limited to increasing the price of the cost of water supply, another step at the expense of the popular strata and the poor and middle peasantry through the total commercialization of water, to increase the profitability of the monopoly business groups. the resolution does not distinguish between drought and water scarcity, two different phenomena requiring different methods of response, and the principle of preventing and improving the ratio of exploitable water reserves to available water reserves to the number of waterfalls is completely absent. the positive role of forests as an active factor in mitigating the natural phenomenon of drought and in addressing water scarcity is appreciated and therefore no reforestation measures are proposed, but it is stressed that the increase in forest cover should be approached where it is absolutely necessary. the flood risk and the need for flood control measures are undermined. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water' in the definition of the concept of 'water'. workers are fighting for clean and safe water in abundance, against the commercialization of yet another social good, north of the profits of the monopolies.
in writing. public health and its commercialisation is targeted by the eu to multiply capital gains and to degrade public structures by confining them to high-cost sectors unaffordable to private individuals. the eu sees health as a means of increasing worker productivity and reducing social expenditure. it intervenes in an area of exclusive competence of the member states, imposes private economic criteria, promotes entrepreneurship and ignores the basic human right to health and life. at the same time, it uses it as a pretext to promote its expansionist imperialist plans by proposing the involvement of the health services in the cfsp, international trade and its relations with third countries. the community framework for health services and management of innovation in health systems, the creation of european centres of excellence and other proposed measures, represent the beginning of the concentration of health services in a few multinationals that will deal with private insurance companies to define the services offered on the basis of an unacceptable system of class discrimination. we reject the report because we are in solidarity with the workers' struggle against the commercialisation and privatisation of health care and the struggle for a public and free health system of high quality services that fully meets the needs of ordinary families.
mr president, the prime minister of fyrom, mr gruevski, tried to create a huge issue last week, which he even took to brussels. the fact is simple: four macedonian journalists who were trying to record the reactions of a small group to a military exercise taking place in the area were taken to the police station for identification because they did not have id cards with them. their stay at the police station lasted only 20 minutes. i find mr gruevski's action totally unacceptable. i also condemn mr gruevski's action because a few days ago he refused to allow greek army units, part of the nato military force heading for kosovo, to pass through skopje. and then he wants to join nato?
mr president, the recent crisis has taught us that we must rely on solidarity rather than individualism, that we must change our way of life and, as a union, pay particular attention to the way in which each member state can deal effectively with its own problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it should also be about respect for national patterns of life and i am referring specifically to the issue of respect for the sunday holiday. sunday is a holiday established in the fourth century a.d. and we should not fall into a european model that abolishes it. i hope that will never happen in europe.
mr president, on 16 october we celebrated world food day. when the day was established in 1980, the goal was to reduce hunger. but today we are witnessing a paradoxical phenomenon and we have to deal with two scourges: hunger and obesity. hunger is affecting the developing world, and obesity is affecting the developed world. today, about 850 million people on the planet are threatened with malnutrition, and about 40 million die each year from hunger. it is estimated that two billion people suffer from hunger, and 55 percent of child deaths in the developing world are due to poor nutrition. on the other hand, the western model has created diseases, it has created obesity, cancer, diabetes, diseases that by 2020 we estimate will account for 72% of all deaths. i suggest that we in the european parliament launch a campaign to establish the mediterranean diet as a standard.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the presidency and the commission, as well as the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to the adoption of the directive and to the achievement of a new success for the european union for the benefit of its citizens, and to recall that a large proportion of temporary workers are women. it is particularly welcome that women temporary workers will have rights guaranteed from day one, as will parents in general, so that they are not left behind, because the european union, with this new proposal to citizens and to employers and workers, is trying to approach human behaviour, since work - whether it is a day's work or more - has the same value and must be accorded the same respect. i hope that everything that has been agreed can be implemented, because it is precisely in implementation that we are lagging behind. in my country, for example, the law is in force and provides for equal treatment between temporary and permanent workers. but the hard part is enforcing the law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, you have made a shocking statement: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the position to do so. but then why did you sign an agreement with america that provides for giving the american government exactly these details of european citizens? in essence, you are admitting that the europe-america agreement is an agreement which violates the european law of proportionality. you said a second, a misstatement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the pnr data. but european law requires that these data be necessary, not just useful. if european law has changed, let us know. but if it has not changed, it is your responsibility to prove that the pnr is necessary, not just useful. as far as australia is concerned, what is the point of discussing today a completed pnr agreement with australia? the question is not theoretical. as is well known, in the case of the united states, before the ink of the pnr agreement had even dried, the united states engaged in a bargaining process, separately with european countries, by requiring even more data than the pnr agreement provided for in order to include them in the famous visa waiver program, data and personal data that it required outside the framework of even these imperfect, but at least existing, restrictions imposed by the pnr agreement. two days ago, in a grand ceremony, president bush welcomed six european countries to the program, while declaring that he would not welcome six others, including greece. the clear blackmail of certain european countries to accept conditions that are contrary to the constitution and the laws, or even worse, to adapt their foreign policy to the wishes of a third country - as is the case with greece - requires immediate investigation by the commission, but also intervention and condemnation by the council, which unfortunately is not here today, and is a disgrace to the council.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work and on the successful coordination of the work of the other committees. under this programme, between 2004 and 2008, 4,424 scholarships were awarded to students from third countries and 323 universities took part. we can therefore perceive its dimension. the new erasmus mundus programme should adapt to the growing demand for mobility, but at the same time maintain its quality. i think it is very important to provide scholarships for european postgraduate and doctoral students in order to increase mobility in europe and in third countries, since there has been a time limit on their movement. i also agree with the rapporteur that the amount of the scholarships should take into account the amount of tuition fees, the general costs of study and the costs associated with the student's stay in the country of destination. finally, the commission should discuss the possibility of giving special incentives to countries such as greece, austria, slovakia and, more generally, the new states of the european union which are under-represented in erasmus mundus associations. this will lead to a more harmonious policy of promoting educational mobility in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating you on your commitment and on the new programme you have presented. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs de sarnez, and my colleagues who have worked for a better proposal and a good agreement. let me stress the importance of this programme for mobility in europe, for the acquaintance of europeans with the outside world and for the role of europe in development and the dialogue of cultures in the modern world. let me also remind you that this programme can work in a complementary way - and here we must exploit all the opportunities without overlaps - with two new important tools that we have: the euro-mediterranean university and the european institute of innovation and technology. i would also like to point out that we must look beyond the numbers to qualitative evaluation and analysis. the numbers are sometimes positive, sometimes negative. let us look at the countries that are not participating, because they are not participating, because there are indeed different ways of applying, different ways of approaching and exploiting erasmus from university to university. it is a pity that these opportunities are being lost because of distortions or poor management of educational institutions or bureaucratic difficulties in the various countries.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. - the i believe that the multiannual programme on the protection of children when using the internet and other communication technologies is the european union's lead in the global field of child protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, as the committee on women's rights and gender equality, we stressed in our opinion that the specificity of each sex, the participation it must have, the knowledge, the use of new technologies, as well as the special protection each sex needs separately and protection from the risks that differ from sex to sex, from boys to girls, and which must be specifically mentioned and analysed, must always be taken into account. we have even referred to the protection of vulnerable groups, vulnerable children who are exposed to the risk of sexual abuse and harassment and to bullying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that you have carried out an impact assessment and a public consultation. the research must continue, however, and specifically address the gender gap. we also want to stress the need for entrepreneurship to be developed, to overcome obstacles and risks, to cover risks and to continue, if we are to have a europe that is strong in its development and in the protection of its citizens.
mr president, commissioner, the commission's proposal to establish a european programme on the protection of children using the internet is part of a european action to promote greater safety for minors using new technologies. the commission has taken an important step in this direction. the increase in computer literacy has led to a greater exposure of children to the risk of illegal and harmful online content. i therefore welcome the efforts of all to achieve the commission's objective of maximum safety in the use of the internet, especially for children. i also support the rapporteur's proposal, which i congratulate, for the immediate approval of the programme so that it can be implemented from 1 january 2009. i hope that the appropriate financial framework will be prepared for the period 2009-2013, as the increasing frequency of child pornography online is sounding the alarm and calling for immediate action.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, the 29 european regulatory bodies are prima facie micro-institutions, but in fact they have obvious long-term effects and are already an accepted institutional component of the union. the excessive increase in the number of regulatory bodies has undoubtedly led to an expansion of european regulatory intervention, to the fragmentation and opacity of european policies and, consequently, to the difficulty of their functional coordination. the european organizations as a whole are urgently raising the question of an interim report on their work and performance. a minimum set of common principles and rules for the structure, operation and control of regulatory bodies is required in order to integrate them harmoniously into the framework of the fundamental principles deriving from the system of the treaties. following the council's refusal to accept a legally binding act and the rejection of the proposal to conclude an interinstitutional agreement, the commission decided to propose the setting up of an interinstitutional working party to develop a common framework for regulatory bodies and to define the responsibilities of each of the european institutions vis-à-vis those bodies. i think that this proposal falls short of the european parliament's expectations of an interinstitutional agreement. the common approach is indeed an intermediate step towards the adoption of a legally binding text. i understand the commission's desire to get out of a situation of prolonged institutional inertia. the establishment of an interinstitutional working group to take collective political stock of the experience gained from the activities of regulatory bodies and to clarify their position on multilevel european governance is welcome. the proposed approach to the structure and operation of these bodies is as close as possible to the common approach, with the aim of reducing red tape in order to achieve proper and effective regulatory intervention and supervision and to meet, at least in part, the audit and accountability requirements of the times. the priority of the common framework for interinstitutional coordination and convergence pursued is to maximise the added value of regulatory bodies to the overall european governance structures in terms of greater transparency, visible democratic control and enhanced efficiency. finally, i would like to emphasize that the introduction of parliamentary control over the structure and work of the regulatory bodies is in keeping with the classic democratic principle which requires the development of political responsibility for each body of executive authority. the possibility for the european parliament to attribute political responsibility to these bodies is linked to the core of representative democracy to examine the options of the executive from the point of view of legality and expediency.
i think, madam president, that the andersson report is a brave move by the european parliament, because what is at stake is a balance between legal principles and political views, but one which directly affects the lives of not only workers but all citizens. it is no coincidence that the cases we are discussing have crystallized the objections of both the legal world - i am a lawyer and i know it - and of all the citizens of the union who feel that the union does not understand them. and they were - it was said - one of the major reasons why the people of ireland said no to the treaty of lisbon. and yet, it is paradoxical but true: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the social clause and the specific clauses in the charter of fundamental rights would probably lead the court to a different analysis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the eu fails to do so, then market greed will continue to drive counterproductive investment that jeopardises its future and the future of its workers and citizens. what 's a new deal ? it needs a new system of economic governance, a new role for the european central bank, a new conception of the welfare state, not as the tail of the free market but as the core of development. we need new european financial instruments, a green growth fund, a serious globalisation fund and, of course, a larger budget for europe, and we need a new social 'master­tricht' of employment and growth.
in writing. the agreement expressed by the european council on 15 and 16 october is 'in principle', but not 'sufficient'. the european monetary union must be rebalanced in conjunction with development and social policies. the european council in luxembourg on 14 and 15 december called for the adoption of a new constitution and a new constitution for the european union. the creation of a single european fund should be substantially reconsidered as a follow-up to the immediate measures to deal with the interbank crisis, and it should be clarified that taxpayers cannot be burdened in the long term. the logic of self-regulation of the crisis at national level, which has prevailed up to now, risks nationalizing economic and social policies and creating a multi-speed european economy. this fragmentation of the eu's institutional profile should be avoided. europe has a unique and historic opportunity to put forward the new economic and social model of development that it has begun to claim through policies on climate change, energy security, social stability and a sustainable economy. when the economic crisis is over, it should find the eu stronger politically and institutionally, more social and a leader in climate change policy.
in writing. the eu magnifies the real risks of climate change caused by the unprofitable exploitation of natural resources by capital, not to promote meaningful measures to counter them but to intimidate the people, to improve its position against imperialist competition, and to find outlets for capital over-accumulation by securing even greater profits for monopolies. the cor report on the creation of an eu-developing countries climate change alliance is characterised by open intervention in the internal organisation of these countries' economies, societies and governance mechanisms, offering meagre economic rewards to the plutocracy of these countries or threatening military interventions in the context of a proactive policy to address climate-related security threats and conflicts, sharing the sloan report. it proposes an even more active role for enterprises through public-private partnerships, particularly in areas such as water, public health, energy supply, the introduction of green taxes, the system of emission trading which is earned by enterprises and paid for by workers and the environment, and the adaptation of developing countries to capitalist restructuring in trade, agriculture and security. the people will reject the eu's imperialist plans and demand a better and healthier environment.
in writing. the eu, in the framework of the anti-people policy of the lisbon strategy, uses the erasmus mundus programme 2009-2013, for the urban modernization of universities in the member states, in accordance with the needs of capital, for the abduction of brains from third countries and the intensification of the exploitation of workers, to increase the profitability of european monopolies. it strengthens the private-financing criteria for evaluating universities and research centres, and equalises public and private educational institutions. it creates educational "consortia" on the basis of "excellence targets" by imposing tuition fees on students, thus effectively excluding children from working class families from higher education and postgraduate studies. the eu's demagogic declarations to prevent brain drain from the least developed countries cannot hide the real objective which is nothing other than the brutal exploitation of the workforce of these countries, the drastic restriction of the right of young people to public, free, high quality education for all children of the working class family. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union.
the european union is faced today, mr president, with the challenge of redefining its relationship with russia. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. the european union is also committed to the development of a new strategic partnership between the european union and russia. the final objective is a united europe without the dividing lines of the past. in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, we must work closely together to consolidate stability in the region, since none of the frozen conflicts in the caucasus has any serious prospect of resolution without russia. we have an interest in seeking common solutions to common problems, in continuing the partnership negotiations as soon as possible and in entering into dialogue with mutual understanding and respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need it also for the internal stability policy of the european area as a whole. it must be made clear to the caucasus countries and the united states that the enlargement of the euro-atlantic relationship must go hand in hand with the normalisation of relations with moscow. if collective security is what is at stake, then everyone must cooperate and participate. otherwise, the return to cold war logic will be a one-way street.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they've suffered before. but we as greeks had a civil war for four whole years with many dead. so we cannot always look only backwards. we must also recognize the rights that russia has. have we forgotten that putin warned that recognizing kosovo opens the coffers of hell? have we forgotten that bush has not kept the commitment of the united states to russia that nato will not expand eastwards? the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, and of course, mr cappato, members of this parliament, the commission is very pleased with the attention paid by parliament to the negotiation of a partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam and to the human rights situation in that country. our debate is very timely, since, as our president said, a negotiating session for this agreement is taking place today in hanoi. and i can tell you that the human rights situation is an absolutely important concern of the european union in its relations with vietnam. it is true that the country is still making some progress in this area. i am thinking in particular of the recent efforts to reduce the scope of the death penalty, to establish, for example, a legislative framework governing the conditions for the exercise of religious freedom and to better manage the issue of ethnic minorities who have fled to cambodia and are returning to vietnam. however, and you are right, it is clear that unfortunately there have been disturbing developments in recent months on the front, in particular, of religious freedom and freedom of expression, which are particularly illustrated by the harassment of the catholic community in hanoi and the conviction last week of journalists for their investigation into corruption. as i said to the vietnamese deputy prime minister, mr khiem, when he visited brussels very recently on 17 september, it would be disastrous for vietnam's long-term stability and international credibility if the country's current economic and social difficulties were to generate authoritarian and repressive regressive reflexes. on the contrary, vietnam needs, more than ever, to develop mechanisms to allow the social tensions and frustrations at work in that country to be expressed peacefully. this is a message that president barroso will also repeat this week when he meets prime minister dung on the sidelines of the asem summit in beijing. this will be the message of the european union at the next session of the eu-vietnam dialogue on human rights, which will also take place in hanoi in december. the draft partnership and cooperation agreement which the european union has proposed to vietnam confirms and reinforces the place we give to human rights in our relations with that country. the current draft agreement, as our president has said, includes an essential, suspensive clause on human rights, consolidates the regular dialogue between the european union and vietnam on human rights by giving it legal existence, and provides for assistance to vietnam in developing a national action plan on human rights. it contains a whole series of detailed provisions on respect for labour law, good governance and the promotion of the rule of law. it also contains a clause on the international criminal court. so this agreement is a legal instrument and a lever for political action which i believe we need to step up our commitment to human rights and democratisation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we understand very well that imperialism and its proxies, the european union and the united states of america and all those who support them, are not going to forget vietnam because it has become a world symbol: his people defeated both french and american imperialism and won their independence. the identical resolutions proposed today are unacceptable and call on vietnam to comply with the european union's recommendations. what you couldn't achieve with weapons, you're trying to achieve with financial blackmail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, since you are invoking human rights, i ask all of you, and mr cappato, to answer: there are tens of thousands of people in vietnam suffering from agent orange, a brutal chemical and biological weapon used by the united states of america. there are thousands of deaths from cancer, devastation of entire regions from the use of this weapon produced by the well-known monsanto company. these people, who are still being tortured and dying, do they not have human rights and the highest human right, the right to life? so why don't you support the demand of the vietnamese government and the victims for compensation and dealing with the consequences of this forbidden biochemical war but support the so-called human rights to return the church property belonging to the people? that's why the invocation of human rights is hypocritical. the people of vietnam are the ones who are capable of solving their problems, not those who, in the final analysis, had to apologize to them for murdering a million people in the war they waged against them. what is needed is an equal, mutually beneficial economic cooperation without political and economic blackmail.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and make two comments on what the commissioner said. first, as regards the trafficking of counterfeit medicinal products, it is striking that some of them have been found to be manufactured in two countries of the european union and to be trafficked through a third european country, switzerland. that is something you should be aware of, commissioner. the second point concerns the pharmaceutical raw materials industry, which, although it was flourishing 20 years ago, is now slowly dying. the reasons are, on the one hand, high costs and, on the other, the protection of innovation, which we all agree on, but which has meant that european industries have been unable to produce pharmaceutical raw materials which were under the protection of innovation regime. therefore, the research centres were moved to china and india. there are specific policies that you can implement to get them back into the european union.
in writing. at the same time that the centre-right and centre-left governments of its member states refuse to meet the slightest wage or other demand of the workers, citing the resilience of the economy, the european council is provocatively financing the banks and monopolies with trillions of euros, again putting the burden of the crisis on the backs of the workers. the acceleration of capitalist restructuring, the dismantling of industrial relations, the dismantling of social protection and insurance systems, the linking of wages to competitiveness and employment are at the heart of the new wave of eu summit decisions. the european pact on migration and asylum, which erects inhuman walls for migrants in the eu, but provides the necessary cheap labour for the monopolies, complements the savage attack. at the same time, the council decisions reveal the eu's hypocritical concern for the climate, since the price of energy will now be formed on the basis of a market gamble, regardless of its production costs, thus increasing the profits of monopolies and burdening the environment. there can be no pro-people solutions in the context of competitiveness and the liberalised action of capital, which the eu and governments are further reinforcing with measures of a state monopoly nature, while escalating the anti-people offensive to bring the capitalist system out of its crisis.
in writing. the directive, which was voted for by the european parliament, establishes the functioning and activities of temporary employment agencies, which it calls by the misleading title of 'temporary employment agencies', under the pretext of guaranteeing workers' supposedly 'equal rights'. it requires the member states to prohibit any obstacle to their establishment and action and guarantees their right to be paid for their 'services', i.e. ransom for the slave trade. in fact, it relieves the real employer of any obligation to the workers, who are considered employees of the slave-trading company-phantom, which only on paper employs staff. employers can thus be exempted from compliance with obligations imposed by labour and insurance legislation (e.g. insurance contributions) and from any liability, such as compensation for work accidents. in fact, the directive does not guarantee rights for workers who are victims of trafficking, but rather exempts them from those rights. the so-called safeguarding of workers' rights turns out to be the safeguarding of slave companies, the legalization of capital's insolvency, the savage exploitation of the working class. the satisfaction of the modern popular needs and rights presupposes the overthrow of the anti-working class policy of the eu, the workers' counter-attack, which will shape the conditions for the people's alliance, to claim their own people's power.
in writing. the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles is, from a technical point of view, an essential measure for environmental protection, because emissions from conventional vehicles contribute to climate change and to the air pollution of urban centres with serious effects on public health. despite the mobilization of workers to address these serious problems, the car manufacturers, in the context of competition, refuse to proceed with the production of 'clean cars' unless their even greater profitability is first ensured, requiring the costs of research and applications for clean cars to be financed, along with their increased profits, by the state. the proposed directive does just that by making it compulsory to take into account, in the public procurement criteria for vehicles, the operating costs of energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions throughout the life of vehicles, thus provoking subsidies to the car industry to produce cleaner vehicles with public money. the workers are fighting for public transport organisations which will provide them with quality and genuinely environmentally friendly services. they oppose all kinds of regulations designed to enrich the car industry, which, by its unfair social and environmental attitude, in order to increase its profits, contributes to the phenomenon of climate change, to the overconsumption of energy resources, and to air pollution.
in writing. the right of workers to rest and holidays has been turned into a commodity that enriches capital. time-sharing leases and the new products promoted in this context take advantage of the continuing reduction in holiday time, the squeeze on incomes and the effort of workers to secure cheaper holidays in the long term, generating turnover of over eur 11 billion. the fraudulent and aggressive methods used by companies, often ghost companies, to convince and deceive buyers start at best with the fine print of contracts, misleading advertising, tedious presentations, promises of gifts, etc., and almost always end with the immediate and pressing signing of binding documents. the complaints that reach consumer organizations about fraud, excessive maintenance costs, credit card issues, significant price reductions at resale due to marketing expenses, etc., are endless. the inclusion of other products in the time-based credit directive, such as holidays on boats, clubs and caravans, provides legal cover and new profits for the activities of the capital. the right of withdrawal limited to 10 days and subject to a fine of 3% of the total amount does not solve the problem. instead, the eu is shifting the responsibility onto the backs of workers as it does with all consumer products.
in writing. the report exposes the hypocrisy of the european parliament around the individual rights and democratic freedoms of the people. the european parliament's criticism is limited to procedural issues and the fact that european citizens are not afforded the protection that eu law is supposed to provide. but it is precisely this legislation that brutally violates all personal data protection, it institutionalizes the generalized dossier, the collection and exchange of even the most sensitive personal data between the law enforcement agencies of the member states, and even with the intelligence services of third countries. the fact that any superficial protests about the agreement are being made for the 'eyes of the world' is evidenced by the fact that the report does not dare to seek its withdrawal or to go further in its challenge. as with the unacceptable eu-us agreement, the european parliament's... discreet reservations do not prevent the personal data of eu employees from being made available to any intelligence service and any repressive mechanism in the context of 'counter-terrorism cooperation'. once again it is becoming clear that the european parliament and the eu are not only not defending but, on the contrary, through a web of reactionary legislation and agreements, are stifling democratic rights and popular freedoms.
in writing. i support, as does the group of the european left, the full recognition of the fundamental rights of workers. i have refused to vote in favour of the andersson report because, despite its positive elements, it remains inadequate. i think that this report is a missed opportunity to deal effectively with the issues of workers' rights already in primary european law. the exercise of fundamental rights, as recognised by the member states, by the conventions of the ilo and the european charter of social rights, including the right to negotiate, cannot depend on the unchecked judgment of the judge and always come second, because it is based on a lower-ranking legislative source. the right to trade union action must not be jeopardized. the inclusion of a 'social progress clause' in the treaties is mandatory.
in writing. the report attempts to address the reactions of the working class, and workers in general, to the unacceptable decisions of the court of justice of the european communities (cjec) declaring industrial strikes illegal, because the legal framework and the forms of workers' struggle are contrary to the maastricht and lisbon treaties, which enshrine as a fundamental and indisputable principle the principle of competitiveness, the freedom of movement and the free movement of capital in the eu member states. it defends the anti-people policy and the reactionary nature of the eu. it seeks to convince workers that it is possible within the eu to strike a 'balance' between workers' rights and the freedom of movement of capital, in order to exploit every opportunity for greater exploitation of the working class, the popular strata, to secure and increase the profits of the monopolies. in the same vein, the parties of the euro-path are spreading among the workers the dangerous illusion that the eu can allegedly acquire a 'social personality' and with 'clauses of social progress' the eu and capital can acquire social sensitivity ...!! the eu's anti-people attack on the most basic workers' rights shows that the eu cannot change. it was created and exists to faithfully serve the interests of the monopoly corporations, to ensure their exploitation of the working class.
the committee on constitutional affairs has tabled a number of amendments to the report. - the madam president, i will speak as rapporteur for the committee on constitutional affairs and also as a socialist member of the committee on budgets. that is why i have two minutes instead of one. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the committee on constitutional affairs is concerned, what we regret to note is that, in a year in which we had the referendum in ireland on the constitutional treaty, which proved, apart from its outcome, the need for communication between politicians and the citizens of the european union, the irish tell us that the main reason for the 'no' was precisely the lack of communication. it is obvious that we need more communication in the run-up to the upcoming elections. our proposals were largely accepted. but it is not satisfactory that the proposals to strengthen two key new political institutions, namely the european political parties and the european political institutions, have not been accepted. i'll see you next time. some political remarks on the budget itself which we are voting on this year. and when i say political, the political role of the budget would be, at last, to be able to play our part through the budget as a european union. as the german commissioner said yesterday, "we must start thinking about the budget of europe". we have not even thought of this budget yet, and it must be done. so, what do we see this year? we are seeing a budget with low payments, with a large gap between commitments and payments and with an unsatisfactory response to the political priorities of the european union itself. and yes, there are problems, but, as you said, mr jouyet, we must leave room to respond to crises. but the political choices of the european union itself are also important. and for example, it is not permissible, i think, in an election year to provide so little funding for communication. in a year of geopolitical crises, so little for foreign policy!
mr president, in an election year, the budget must have two distinct features: first, resources which reflect the ambition of the european union and, secondly, answers and political messages to what the average citizen expects, especially in the present difficult situation. if we assess the draft budget before us in terms of these criteria, the amount corresponding to 0.96% of community gdp in payments is considered to be inadequate, but only on condition that the council does not take up the reins and start cannibalizing it at the second reading. i hope the minister here pays particular attention to this point. things are better with political messages and political targets. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. at the moment, thousands of iraqi, kurdish, afghan and georgian citizens are flocking to turkey, trying to join the european union en masse. greece and the other southern european countries with few resources have to make a disproportionate effort to control illegal immigration. in 2007 alone, we had 110,000 illegal immigrants in greece, and by september this year, over 80,000. i am therefore particularly pleased that for the first time the community budget has a distinct label for the european union's solidarity with its southern member states and i would like to believe that we are making a good start this year which we will continue to make for a long time to come.
vice-president of the commission. −it is dg employment, under my good colleague mr špidla, that is responsible for these reports. the numbers are interesting and we give training to nine million people in europe every year, so the benefits are there.
vice-president of the commission. − firstly,about bureaucracy and the administrative burden:they exists,no doubt. as i said,my colleague mr špidla is responsible for spending the money,and i am responsible for discharge: ensuring that no money is wasted. this is always a dilemma. we try to be as flexible as possible, but at the same time the benefits and possible outcomesare also carefully audited by national authorities, by paying agencies and probably by the ministry responsible. this also includes the european court of auditors and our dg, so there are different layers of control as well. the result is assessed by large public participation, and projects must be seen,so now we have an obligation to have everything published on the website about the financing so that everyone can follow it. the social fund, however, is mainly financing training. in responseto the next question: there is cooperation between different sources of financing structural funds, including the social fund and regional development funds and, in my country at least, theyare in very close cooperation with each other. this cooperation depends on national authorities. we can only support good cooperation and the efficient use of money.
vice-president of the commission. − these issues are always very complicated and serious. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is competent to investigate, where eu funds are involved, when there are sufficiently serious suspicions of fraud or irregularity having been committed against the financial interests of the european union. in cases where projects are co-funded by eu funds – such as is the situation with structural funds – the member states and the commission share the responsibilities in the management of these funds. in this regard, it is the member states that are primarily responsible for distribution of the expenditure and the necessary controls. moreover, resulting from such controls and investigations and the communication of possible cases of fraud or irregularity to olaf, the honourable member may be aware that there are regulatory arrangements in place under regulation (ec) no 1681/94, which provides that the member states shall report to the commission, at the appropriate stage, the details of their investigation into such possible cases of fraud or irregularity. moreover, whenever it is deemed appropriate, olaf liaises closely with the competent national authorities on progress in such matters. in the matters referred to by the honourable member, the commission has been informed by olaf that it is aware of ongoing cases in germany and greece but that, until now, olaf’s direct assistance in matters involving siemens in germany and/or greece in respect of structural funds has not been requested by the judicial authorities of either member state. in addition, the commission would refer to the reply already given to the honourable member’s written question, which stipulated that, according to article3 of regulation (euratom, ec) no 2185/96, economic operators are not being controlled by both the commission and member states’ authorities at the same time and on the basis of the same facts, according to community sector regulations or national legislation. besides, the commission may, at any moment, start an infringement procedure against the member states, on the basis of article 226 of the ec treaty,if there are sufficient elements indicating an infringement of community public procurement law. in respect of the particular matters referred to by the honourable member, the commission has no such elements that could justify the opening of an infringement procedure.
the commissioner, that is exactly what i am asking you. you know very well that siemens, a large and historic company, has taken jobs worth many millions of euros from co-financed projects. he's based in germany and has taken jobs in greece and elsewhere. there are convictions and confessions that he used methods of corruption, black political money. how can you be so sure that he didn't use the same methods and the same black money for the co-financed projects? the commission is also aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you can also take action on your own initiative. are you going to ask olaf to investigate this matter, as the commissioner responsible, or would you wait in silence because you were afraid of the giant called siemens?
member of the commission. − yes, it is true that we have been aiming to make a proposal in the autumn of this year, but you have to understand that, in a project as ambitious as the ccctb, it is not possible to predict exactly when we will be ready to make the proposal, as the timing of the proposal depends on the finalisation of the impact assessments and its evolution by the commission. as far as the correlation between the irish referendum on the lisbon treaty and the ccctb is concerned, i want to emphasise that the commission is taking a measured approach based on wide consultation and detailed study of all aspects of the ccctb. the commission is aware of the issues raised by the electorate during the referendum in ireland relating to the lisbon treaty. however, i would point out that the provisions of the lisbon treaty do not have any direct influence on the process whereby member states would eventually decide on any proposal on a possible commission proposal for ccctb. (interjection from the floor by eoin ryan)
member of the commission. −madam president, may i take the liberty of answering mr ryan’s comments very briefly? i just want to tell you that you will soon receive a full, legally based answer from the head of my cabinet office. then you will understand our position. concerning the second issue, customs cooperation is an important part of the eu-china strategic partnership. the ec-china agreement on customs cooperation and mutual administrative assistance with china provides the legal basis for this cooperation. the ec-china joint customs cooperation committee meets once a year in order to manage and oversee the implementation of the agreement. under the customs cooperation agreement, the ec and china are developing substantial interaction in key customs areas, organised clearly to reflect the interest of the european community. the problem of counterfeiting is our key priority in relation to china, which is the number one source of fakes entering the eu external borders. during my visits to beijing in january and april 2008, i agreed with my chinese counterparts to develop an ambitious action plan for ipr enforcement with concrete objectives and measures to be adopted by the eu-china summit in december. it should include, among other things, an information exchange system on ipr risks, an exchange programme of operational officials, and collaboration on the development of partnerships with business communities in china and the european union. securing the supply chain is another essential aspect of ec-china customs cooperation. the joint pilot project on safe and secure trade lane has been running since november 2007 with the participation of three ports, shenzhen in china, rotterdam in the netherlands and felixstowe in the united kingdom. this project aims at strengthening security while facilitating trade between the ec and china through the use of modern technology and the exchange of advance information. at the same time, it will help to better target the traffic in illicit goods. furthermore, the pilot project aims at preparing the ground for a future agreement on mutual recognition of security measures and the authorised economic operator (aeo) and its chinese opposite number. it involves cooperation in such important fields as alignment of the chinese security legislation, information exchange and risk analysis. china has in the meantime adopted and implemented, as of 1 april 2008, its own aeo legislation that appears very similar to the european community concept. the ec and china are also enhancing cooperation in other important areas. an eu-china agreement on coordinated controls of trade in drug precursors is expected to be signed at the upcoming eu-china summit that will allow us to combat trade in illicit drugs more effectively. we agreed to further enhance our cooperation to fight fraud through the established mutual assistance mechanism. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has posted one of its agents in china in order to support the anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit activities of the office, in particular in relation to cigarette smuggling. the eu is ready to continue to assist china in customs capacity building, including through the application of the recently published customs blueprints. while we have made considerable progress in enhancing customs cooperation with china, further steps need to be taken, particularly with regard to combating counterfeit and piracy. proper implementation of the above-mentioned initiatives, in particular the proposed ipr enforcement action plan, will determine the level of effectiveness of this cooperation.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer that question. the eu-china trade deficit in 2007 amounted to eur 160 billion at the expense of the union. the deficit is also largely a consequence of the incomplete customs cooperation in eu-china relations. in addition to the language of numbers, we are very much concerned - and rightly so - about public health, the protection of european consumers and, of course, the competitiveness of european products. i believe that in the near future these checks will be intensified in order to protect the public goods i have mentioned.
member of the commission. − i fully agree with your concern –in my view, counterfeiting is much more than a financial problem. first of all, it is a legal issue: the violation of intellectual property right. second, it is a financial or economic problem as it undermines the revenue of the member states and it also undermines the profit of the manufacturing company of the original products and it can even result in the loss of jobs in our member states. but third – and this is my real concern – it is a new threat to the safety and to the health – and even to the life – of our citizens, so, as you very clearly emphasised, it is an issue of consumer protection. when i first got the information that eu customs seized some consignments of medicines, pharmaceuticals, against cardiovascular diseases, and the capsules contained brick powder and yellow paint, i was really shocked. so it is much more than a financial or legal issue. it is a problem of the safety of our citizens and we have got to do our best. may i say that i am now more optimistic:in april, i met my new counterpart, the new minister responsible for customs in china. even with my former counterpart i felt some positive changes in the chinese style, the way they negotiated. since 2005, it has become more and more concrete, more and more to the point and china has made some steps. for instance they even changed the legislation concerning combating counterfeiting. but, you are right that it is still not working in an optimum manner. that was the reason why we initiated an action programme and i made it very clear to my new partner that what we expect from china is concrete measures and concrete results in the market and i think that he understood the message. one or two more reasons about why i am optimistic: first, china, which is an emerging power, which is playing a more and more important role in the world economy and world politics, i think simply cannot afford to be related, to be judged as the number one source of fake products. second, china is more and more a target country. quite recently we heard about chinese fake milk powder which resulted in the death of some chinese children. so they are not only a country of origin, but they are also a target country, a target of counterfeiters.
member of the commission. − one of the figures i can refer to in my answer is that in 2005 more than 80% of seized fake products came from china. now this proportion is around 60%. i think it would be premature to say that it is due to the customs cooperation agreement and it is the result of the yearly meeting of the customs cooperation committee, but i am pretty sure that there is certainly some correlation between the two. as i have already said,there have been changes in chinese legislation:production and distribution of fake goods are now an element of the penal code,which was not the case before, andexportcontrols havealso been introduced. i would not say that this export control is systematic and full-scale. it is rather sporadic and occasional, but it is a step forward. these are the concrete facts which show that china is becoming more cooperative and taking it more seriously. i have already spoken about chinese motivation. as far as the joint customs cooperation committee is concerned, the co-chairs are the minister on the chinese side, and myself on the eu or ec side, but also in the joint committee,all the member states are represented at expertlevel. they have more than one meeting at expert level a year. once a year the two chairs of the joint committee also come together and discuss the issues.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, in line with the commitment set out in article 22 of regulation no 300 of 2008, the one on the establishment of common standards for civil aviation security which repeals the old regulation, in december this year the commission will present a report on the financing of the costs associated with security measures at european airports. in view of this, the commission is currently evaluating the results of the consultation with stakeholders and member states in order to determine the content of a new legislative proposal in this area. the commission will present its conclusions in this report and, in order to address some of the issues raised during the consultations, the commission may also be called upon to take further action in this area.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i am sorry that i cannot give you an immediate and concrete answer as i would like. but the commission is evaluating the results of a consultation it has carried out to evaluate the results and then decide whether, how, to what extent, in relation to the national states, if it is up to the national states alone, to complete the evaluation of the consultations. as soon as we have completed the evaluation of the consultations, if you think it appropriate, i shall be anxious to inform you and in any case we shall present, as i said in my reply, a report covering the whole sector before the end of the year. it is only a matter of waiting a few weeks for the services to give a final assessment of the whole consultation process. my cabinet and my services are at your disposal to provide you with all the information you need to refer your constituents to the citizens.
commissioner, in the light of what i have heard from you, will there be the possibility of assessing the security needs of each member state and also of regional airports - why was that the question - when the number of airports is greater, as is the case with, for example, island greece, italy, spain, portugal? why should you know how many islands and how many such areas there are and therefore the funding from your overall budget be proportionate and different?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to tell members who cannot, under the rules of procedure, have answers to the questions they wish to put, that my offices are at your disposal to provide all the necessary information that we are able to give to answer their questions. as regards the question raised by mr mavrommatis, you are essentially asking whether member states can adopt more stringent security measures than those imposed by regulation no 300 of 2008. member states can, of course, choose to apply more stringent measures than those provided for in the framework regulation. however, these stricter measures may have an impact on the internal aviation market as they often vary from one member state to another. in the report which i shall be publishing, the commission will examine whether these stricter measures distort competition between airlines and airports. as regards the question of island airports, the commission is also considering, in the context of the replies that have been provided, the question of island airports which are absolutely included in this examination, which concerns the general airport system. you know how much the commission cares about territories which can be reached, such as the islands of your country of origin, but also in countries which i know better, only by air or by ship. so the commission pays close attention to these links. as regards the question raised by mr rübig, the commission is considering the various possibilities. public funds can be used, which is one of the possible ways of financing the costs of aviation security, so it is not necessary to increase the cost of tickets. other forms of financing may be used. however, to be honest and to give an answer which is not merely a formal answer, i repeat that the services are carefully examining all the information collected and, once the information has been examined, evaluated and balanced, we will try to formulate a proposal which can be balanced and which can be in line with the interests of the european citizens. i repeat what i said for the other members, mr rübig, that my offices are always open to all members for any clarification and any meetings they wish to have with me on transport matters.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, this is a continuation of what mr mavrommatis said. we propose to the european parliament and the council the appropriate legal and regulatory framework to ensure sustainable and high-quality transport in europe and to protect the rights and safety of citizens, and, once the legislators have adopted it, we ensure its implementation. i would like to give three examples: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. you also asked me in your question to be more specific about how these efforts will help to establish a reliable transport system by ship, air and helicopter for the small island regions of the european union. the key challenge in this respect is funding. and let us return to the subject we discussed in the previous question. we must be clear about this, ladies and gentlemen - and i always remember that i have been a member of parliament for many years - it is up to the member states and the regional authorities to decide on the quantity and quality of the links in the small island regions and between these regions and the mainland. our role, that of the commission, is subsidiary and consists of two very different tasks. on the one hand, the commission implements the european cohesion policy, which supports the development of areas with geographical and natural handicaps. under cohesion policy, the community may provide co-financing to improve the accessibility of island regions. on the other hand, the commission has a duty to ensure that financial support granted to transport service providers does not distort competition in the internal market to an extent contrary to the common interest. this control is guaranteed by community legislation on the internal transport market. state aid for quality transport services to and within island regions may be authorised by the commission, in particular in the form of public service compensation. the legislation governing the internal market in the field of maritime and air transport leaves member states wide choice as to how to organise public transport services connecting islands to the mainland and islands to each other, provided that all potential service and transport providers have the same opportunities to provide the public service in question.
substitute writer. mr tajani, since you spoke italian, i am tempted to do the same, but i will refrain from speaking in greek. mr commissioner, my question was not so much about the question of funding, which was also covered by mr mauro mmamati, but about three specific points which you mentioned, but which i should like to comment on in detail. the first is the quality of transport which is a very important issue. the second is the special case of small islands and you know that my country has a lot of very small islands which are in a special situation. and the third point is the special psychology of the inhabitants of these small islands who feel a little bit cut off, in this case from the rest of greece but, more generally, from europe, and this when we do not pay much attention to their problems, especially in terms of transport. so i ask a political question that goes beyond funding: you consider that the european union should play a political role in this respect;
vice-president of the commission. - thank you for replying in my mother tongue. i too would be tempted to answer in ancient greek, having studied ancient greek for many years and having been my mother's professor of ancient greek for many years. but i might make a few mistakes and risk being misunderstood by her. thanks for the recognition, though. i have said this, mr president, both when i was a member of parliament, having been elected in a constituency which also had many small islands, so i am well aware of the problems facing small islands, which are perhaps far from the mainland and which, especially during the winter season, have serious problems of connection, because during the summer season there are ships which transport tourists and therefore also the citizens who live on those islands, which are often visited during the summer, have no problems during those two or three months (june, july and august). the problems start in september and that's when they really risk feeling isolated. i believe that the european commission, since it cannot decide directly on the matter - i mentioned this in my speech, we are always respecting the principle of subsidiarity - can also take supporting action by co-financing, without distorting the internal market, certain transport systems which allow these citizens, who are also citizens of the european union and who have the same rights to move as citizens living in large cities or on the mainland, to have the possibility of moving and being reached, because the problem also concerns the supply of food, the supply of water for some islands. i share your concern and i support you. the european commission, with the aim of protecting the rights of citizens at all times and in all circumstances, intends to support, as far as possible and as provided for by the legislation in force, without ever turning a blind eye, to support and try to give concrete answers to the needs of citizens living on the smaller islands and who, especially during the winter season, live objectively in uncomfortable conditions. i remain at your disposal and at the disposal of all greek members of parliament - and not only - for any initiatives they may wish to take to give concrete answers to the citizens of the smaller islands.
vice-president of the commission. - thank you for raising the question. i think i mentioned this in the main speech in response to the question. we want to avoid distortions of competition and to ensure that any type of intervention is only designed to meet the needs of the citizens, without disturbing the internal market and without distorting competition, but only, i repeat, with the aim of allowing citizens living in areas - especially, i repeat, during the winter season - which are not well served to have the opportunity to be citizens like everyone else. so without harming anyone but only with targeted aid, to enable these citizens to live in the same conditions as all other citizens of the european union. i can therefore reassure you of your concerns, because our aim is to help these citizens without distorting the market or competition.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr mavrommatis is always very active and always involved in transport issues. the commission's proposals are always accompanied by an impact assessment. this is particularly true of the november 2005 proposals for the third maritime safety package. the commission's proposals in this area take particular account of the relevant international conventions. in most cases, the aim of the legislative proposals is to invite the member states to ratify the conventions or to apply them in the community. this is never about trying to acquire new skills. i 'd like to clear up a common misunderstanding: the community already has the necessary competences for maritime safety in the context of the common transport policy. it is inevitable, however, that when the european parliament and the council legislate, the capacity of the member states to act in isolation at international level is consequently limited. this is not to the detriment of the member states, however, but can strengthen our collective influence within the international community, thereby increasing the level of protection of the lives of citizens and the environment. sometimes europe simply has to take the lead. this is what happened, for example, when we introduced the accelerated withdrawal of single-hull tankers and then this decision was followed by a similar decision by the international maritime organization. you know very well, mr mavrommatis, what the problems are with the international maritime organisation: we can't always be the only ones making decisions. there are areas of competence which are not of european concern, so there is always a need for continuous comparison with this organization, also because our seas are frequented by vessels flying the flags of countries which are not part of our union. the commission's proposal for new legislation on maritime safety, however, aims to rebalance the global dimension of maritime transport, which requires global solutions, also taking into account the limitations of the global legal framework. mr mavrommatis, community action is a concrete expression of the collective effort and commitment of the member states, not an external imposition that is contrary to their interests. thanks to our efforts and yours, the presence of vessels not complying with the rules in force has been greatly reduced in european waters. the commission will continue to pursue a balanced but proactive policy, with the protection of the lives and livelihoods of our citizens as its main objective.
substitute writer. you know how to flatter me and argue with you. besides, she always answers me. i am grateful for the things that concern all the countries of the european union. in a period when european citizens are particularly sensitive to the sovereign rights of their state, and in such a large area of economic tension as the shipping sector, the proposed establishment of exclusive community competence and the new powers of the commission, in your opinion, would not harm the whole;
vice-president of the commission. - mr mavrommatis, i do not think that you are going to do any harm, but the aim is to try to harmonize the law of the sea in a context which is always complicated, because unfortunately we are always confronted with decisions of the imo and, as i said, fortunately europe is sometimes the protagonist and the international organization follows us. we are not trying to restrict the rights of the member states, but simply to achieve harmonization which can only serve to give faster and stronger answers to the citizens of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. - thank you for this question, mr president, because it also allows me to recall the very positive result we achieved at the transport council in luxembourg two weeks ago, when the council finally gave the green light to the third maritime package. this result was achieved partly because the european parliament insisted, committed itself, and made its voice heard loudly along with that of the commission, so that there would be more comprehensive regulations to guarantee the safety of citizens, in all senses, including our seas, environmental protection, including liability in the event of an accident. when these rules come into force, community control will certainly be strengthened. i can assure you that, as regards the commission's commitment, we will continue to monitor seriously and carefully, also through the action of our agency in lisbon, to ensure that all community legislation is always respected and, above all, that our seas can be ever safer, with joint action of both a legal and an operational nature, in all the seas for which the european union is responsible.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, on the subject of urban transport, i would like to inform the honourable members that i always have to say colleagues, it is obviously the custom; i have been a commissioner for a few months and a member of parliament for many years and i still obviously feel that i am on the side of parliament. this was one of the topics of the informal council of la rochelle on 1 and 2 september 2008, where we discussed the question of urban transport at length. the commission and the member states have therefore dealt with this matter very carefully, including by calling in experts, mayors of large and medium-sized cities, and experts in the field to talk about urban transport. i also spoke about this at the road safety day, which took place a few days ago in paris, on the occasion of the official day of the commission and the council, on the occasion of road safety week, insisting on the fact that road safety also means a good urban transport system: our roads will become safer, especially in the big cities, if we have a good urban transport system, which i believe is going to reduce the number of victims of accidents that happen in the big cities, which are the places where the most accidents happen and where there are also the most victims. i should like to say that the commission is preparing an action plan on urban mobility based on the consultations which followed the publication of the green paper. we intend to present the plan before the end of this year. this plan will include proposals for concrete actions at european union level for the coming years. it is clear that the european commission has no competence: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the former mayor of milan, gabriele albertini, vice-chairman of the transport committee, can testify to this: so we're going to make sure that all the information that we've got, all the advice, all the ideas, all the suggestions, can be brought to the attention of all cities through this action plan, especially the big cities that have traffic problems. the action plan will also facilitate the work of policy makers at local, regional and national level, in full respect - again, full respect - of the principle of subsidiarity. the actions we are going to propose will help to reduce costs, ensure the proper financing of the single market and create outlets for new technologies, boosting sustainable urban mobility. it is no coincidence that just last night the debate was concluded and then a directive was voted on which is intended to encourage, which aims to encourage local authorities to buy public transport with reduced emissions of harmful gases. today, however, it is still too early to outline, to be precise in the contents of the action plan, but we can still expect and you can still expect that it will deal with the fragmentation of the rules of access to green areas, urban transport of goods and logistics, the best information on public transport systems in european cities or broad plans on sustainable urban mobility, proposals on how to integrate urban planning and mobility. the action plan could also include proposals for information exchange and best practice for data collection and research and could also address the issue of funding which is a very sensitive issue. i repeat and insist that we always respect the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. i would, however, like your personal opinion on the following question: there is much discussion about urban tolls which have been implemented in cities such as london, rome, stockholm and seem to have helped to reduce congestion and increase passenger traffic by public transport. in other cities, however, where there is no organised network, there is scepticism and i would like to hear your personal opinion as an experienced commissioner on this point, whether you are in favour of urban tolls or not.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the matter is extremely delicate: if mr albertini, who is always very generous, offers us coffee, we could discuss it by listening to the experience of the mayor of a major european city. the question cannot have a very easy answer. i was a city councillor in the city of rome for five years while i was a member of the european parliament and i dealt with these issues. things have to be examined city by city, reality by reality, because some cities - i think of the city of rome - have a historic center with very narrow streets, where it is difficult to get around. other cities have different urban realities and so it is not easy to have a common rule. i believe that, based on the principle of subsidiarity, mayors should choose, with the consent of the municipal councils, to impose a congestion charge if they consider it useful and if the city they administer needs limited traffic because it is easy to congest the centre of a city which is very old. so the situation varies from city to city and it's hard to give a solution. i must say that this is not a solution to be dismissed, although it may sometimes raise some questions. you have to see what the perimeter is. again, this is a choice that must be made from city to city. i am not opposed to it on principle, but in some cases it may be unfair to impose it, and in others it may be perfectly justified. i think that the final decision should be left to the local authorities, as in this case, given the diversity of european cities, but we will also be making suggestions and ideas in the action plan. the important thing is that citizens are always informed and that we know what is happening and the decisions that are being made, because when it comes to paying a tax it is always good that citizens know what they are paying it for. i regret that i cannot give you a definitive answer in principle. i think we really have to weigh the facts and the results, based on the town planning, case by case, the decision to be made. i repeat, and i conclude, that i am not opposed to it in principle, but there may be situations where it is not necessary to impose such a tax.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, thank you for your questions. i believe that in the action plan we are going to present we must insist on the need to give european citizens communications when they move from one city to another, so that they know what is happening and what they find when they move from stockholm to madrid rather than from rome to vienna. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is important and i think we have to work on it. of course, ladies and gentlemen, i insist on the question of the principle of subsidiarity because we cannot intervene as the european union on matters which are strictly the responsibility of local administrations. the commission is not involved in the financial aspects either. the problem is funding. of course, we will try to incorporate in the action plan the suggestions that have come to us during the various hearings to provide a service, to provide help to the local administrators who will then be free to accept them or not. our aim is to try to harmonize at least the information system for citizens and to provide the various local authorities with as much information as possible on experiences in other cities so that they can make use of it. this is important. as far as funding is concerned, i believe that each municipality is free to do as it sees fit without, of course, hindering the market and the free movement of citizens. everything must always be in proportion. as regards the last question put to me by mr rübig, the public service obligations directive leaves the municipalities free to decide whether or not to call for tenders. i believe that the european union has once again insisted on the principle of subsidiarity in this respect. i think it's right from this point of view, because our task must not be an invasive task: we must not regulate everything and on the contrary, we must deal with the big problems, give big answers and help, if anything, local authorities and the member states to solve the problems, where they can do it, perhaps, with a contribution and help from the european union, without this being a primary and invasive contribution. i think that in local public transport, this should be a principle that we all have to - and i think we want to - stick to.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the commemoration of the ukrainian holodomor (1932-33). i would also like to welcome to the european parliament a delegation from ukraine led by ambassador mr hezemlovich. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
madam president, the question of the famine in ukraine is being taken out of the anti-communist purse to serve the needs of the anti-communist campaign to change historical reality, to criminalize communist ideology and to ban the activities of communists. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. anti-communism has always been the harbinger of the most cruel and savage attacks against peoples. the more the anti-people offensive of the european union intensifies against the fundamental gains of the working class, won with hard struggles and sacrifices, the more savage and barbaric its exploitation by capital becomes, the more aggressive and criminal the imperialist policy of the european union becomes against countries and peoples, the more anti-communism intensifies, the dark satire of socialism that we have known in the 20th century, the attack on the vanguard of the working class and the oppressed layers in the communist parties. the vulgar propaganda is a continuation of the attempt to tarnish in the eyes of the people, especially the young, with gross lies and slander the enormous positive contribution of the socialist system, its contribution to the crushing of fascism, to the building, for the first time in humanity, of a society free from the exploitation of man by man. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the question of the future of the european union, and it has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. the specific famine in ukraine is due, as all objective historical scientists agree, mainly to the great devastation caused by the rich peasants, the gulags, who, reacting to the young soviet power and the collectivization of the land, after having caused a civil war, then destroyed machines, killed animals, set fire to the estates of the kolkhozes and generally sabotaged in every way the sowing and harvesting of the crops, to the great drought combined with the typhus epidemic that struck that region of ukraine in the same period. it is obvious that such a debate on the historical truth cannot be conducted in this way. if you really think you have an argument, organize a discussion in which all those scientific facts that will help to uncover the truth are freely expressed.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that we need any other words to condemn a crime as cruel as that perpetrated by the stalinist dictatorship, one of the two criminal dictatorships of the last century that have plagued europe. i do not need to say more, because the members who spoke have done so with authority and dignity. i would like to conclude this debate, mr president, by reading a few words by the great writer vasilij grossman, who in his novel 'everything flows' described the most tragic moments of the holodomor. i read it as if it were a kind of secular prayer, a memorial to millions of victims, to which we add the memory of many other innocent victims whose sacrifice, i repeat, must not be in vain for europe. the deaths of millions of people in the last century caused by inhuman dictatorships must be the seed from which democracy must continue to germinate, they must have the opposite effect of what the criminal dictators wanted to have. the european union, as i said in the opening, was created to build peace and to guarantee peace. but we cannot forget the sacrifice of so many innocent victims. i read you the words in which grossman summed up the tragedy of so many years ago: "the famine has devastated the country. first it affected children, then the elderly, and finally middle-aged people. at first they dug pits in which to bury the dead; then they stopped when they were not strong enough. the dead lay in the courtyards and eventually stayed there in their huts. everything fell silent and the entire village was decimated. i don't know who died last. "we will never forget you. we will never forget. we will never forget these innocent victims, on whom we want to build a different future.
i have received four motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. this touching conversation has ended. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 23 october. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by mr ulrich stockmann, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on airport charges (08332/2/2008 c6-0259/2008 2007/0013 ((cod)) (a6-0375/2008).
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i think that the debate has shown that parliament and the commission have done a good job and the praise that has been given to mr stockmann only confirms the goodness of his action. i would like to thank him publicly once again for what he has done and for his cooperation with the commission in finding a good compromise solution, which i think was appreciated by all those who spoke during the debate. i believe that the proposal for a directive which we are considering, and which i hope will be adopted by the plenary, as mr ayala sender has said, is nothing but a step towards the achievement of the single sky, which is an objective which i believe the commission, with the support of parliament and then with the approval of the council, should pursue in order to have a strong signal before the end of this parliamentary term. i share all the choices and assessments made on the identification of the independent institution, which already exists in many countries of the union. i think it should be pursued, i think it's a positive choice we made together. before concluding, and i would like to thank once again all the members who have spoken, i would like to answer the questions put to me by mr jarzembowski. the seven cases under examination are regional airports. the procedure was opened in july 2007 and lasted 18 months. i therefore believe that the results will not come until the end of this year and the beginning of next year. of course the results will be made public but before the work is completed i cannot give any advance because that would not be fair and it would not be correct. however, as soon as the work is completed and the commission has taken a decision, parliament will be informed and mr jarzembowski will have a full answer on the substance, in addition to the information i was able to give him, as to what the commission is doing about these seven - i repeat seven - cases under consideration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 23 october. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the report on the activities of the european ombudsman gives us an opportunity to see how citizens view the functioning of the institutions of the european union and gives us practical ideas and examples of how the institutions of the european union can improve their functioning and better serve citizens. i would like to thank the european ombudsman, mr diamantoure, for his excellent work, and our rapporteur, mrs zdravkova, for her very interesting report. and i would like to highlight a few points: firstly, it is very positive that the number of complaints received by the ombudsman is increasing, but this is contrary to the commission's complacency that it is constantly achieving better administration and more transparency. i would recommend that the commission be more honest and more modest. it is also positive that the number of complaints received and the effectiveness of the european ombudsman's interventions have increased. the vast majority, however, continue to concern matters outside its immediate competence. it is the large proportion of citizens in the european union who want more transparency and good administration from the european institutions and, more generally, from the way in which community legislation is applied, and unfortunately do not find it sufficient. the european parliament has therefore repeatedly called for the necessary budgetary and human resources to be allocated to all the institutions and bodies of the european union to ensure that citizens receive immediate and effective answers to their complaints, questions and concerns. in addition, cooperation between the european ombudsman and the ombudsmen of similar bodies at national, regional and local level in the member states is necessary. and yet, we need to give a broader, more expansive interpretation to the term 'maladministration' so that it includes cases where the administrative authorities are reckless and negligent, or lack of transparency, in the performance of their duty towards citizens. the ombudsman's role in the european union is to ensure that citizens are informed about the european union's activities and to ensure that they are informed about the european union's activities. it is also of the utmost importance that the ombudsman can deal with cases concerning all the institutions of the european union, including those operating under the third pillar. finally, i would once again call on all the institutions and bodies of the european union to adopt a common approach to the code of good administrative behaviour. it is not enough to say good things about the european ombudsman. (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, the ombudsman is an independent institution and an oversight mechanism of the european union's administration. the fact that the number of admissible complaints received by the ombudsman in 2007 increased, while the number of inadmissible cases was lower in 2007 compared to 2006, is an indication that european citizens have begun to understand the institution's responsibilities. i also welcome mr diamantoure's efforts to improve the quality of information provided to citizens about their rights under community law during his years in office. i would also like to congratulate mrs zdravková on her first report in our committee, which has achieved unanimous decisions and cooperation. the european network of ombudsmen, which also includes the european parliament's committee on petitions, is made up of some 90 offices in 31 countries. therefore, at this level too, the cooperation of both the network and the european ombudsman is valuable in order to achieve the objective of the fastest possible transmission of complaints to the ombudsman or the body responsible. finally, parliament and the committee on petitions should be instrumental in achieving the ombudsman's dual objective of promoting good administration by the institutions and strengthening communication efforts with citizens. thank you very much.
madam president, mr ombudsman, i take up the rapporteur's statement that she supports the ombudsman's role as a valuable source of continuous improvement in european governance. informing more citizens about the ombudsman means a better europe. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. this is why it is particularly important that the code of good administrative behaviour be applied by all institutions and bodies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not possible, when we are talking about active citizens, at the same time when they turn to the union's institutions to assert their rights, not to be able to respond in a basic way to their struggles or, even worse, not to be able to safeguard the fundamental values of the union.
in writing. the resolution, which was voted for by the large coalition of centre-right and centre-left political forces in the european parliament, promotes, under the pretext of piracy, new imperialist interventions by the eu in the region of somalia and the horn of africa. it exploits piracy incidents in a region where the imperialist rivalries of the eu, the us, russia and other powers intersect, to impose and secure the presence of eu military forces which by the "folding of arms" will advance its imperialist plans for geo-strategic control. parliament welcomed the decision of the eu council to set up and deploy a european naval force, a real strike force for the european monopoly groups to penetrate and redistribute markets to their benefit. the new imperialist enterprise will mean even greater plunder of the wealth-producing resources of the region, intensification of the exploitation of the peoples to secure monopoly profits, new risks of military adventurism in the territory of imperialist competitions. the peoples can resist the new imperialist designs, they can assert their inalienable right to determine their own future and destiny, in accordance with their own interests, against the designs and ambitions of the imperialists.
in writing. the unacceptable eu decision to use body scanners at airports has nothing to do with aviation safety, is part of the eu's reactionary policy, is a flagrant violation of the individual rights and freedoms of workers, with painful consequences for their health and lives. the demagogic references, reservations and objections to the lack of guarantees on 'body scanners' contained in the joint resolution of the european parliament on this issue leave the way open for the implementation of this unacceptable and extremely dangerous system. the proposed measure, which brutally violates the dignity of man and the basic core of his personality, while at the same time seriously endangering his physical health, highlights in the most characteristic way the real, repugnant face of the eu of capital. the people must once again draw their own conclusions. the electronic stripping of citizens with or without "guarantees" cannot be tolerated. what is needed is his immediate, full and decisive condemnation. resistance, disobedience and indiscipline to eu policies and measures is a one-way street for the peoples in order to secure even their basic dignity.
mr president, it is clear that on the eve of the elections in venezuela there is a clearly unacceptable attempt to influence the outcome of the elections by interfering in the internal developments of that country. the situation in venezuela is a great and important victory for the workers of europe and the world in general, because in the course of recent developments in that country, despite the difficulties and obstacles, despite the interventions of american imperialism, positive steps have been taken and the problems of the workers have been solved. the attempt to do so is unacceptable and we would like to take this opportunity to denounce the action of the political forces which, with this resolution, are interfering in the internal affairs of venezuela. i would like to conclude by saying that it is inconceivable that seven members of parliament in a european parliament meeting should take political responsibility for condemning a people who are fighting for their freedom and for their contemporary needs. the right of peoples to determine their own destiny is non-negotiable. and that's something we all have to respect.
mr president, i would like to inform parliament that for three days, on 14, 15 and 16 november, a country which is a candidate for membership of the european community has occupied the greek shelf, with its navy present. but i'm not here to advocate for greece. the greek shelf is also a european shelf and i do not see any concern on the part of europe to protect its sovereign rights in the area. i wonder how a country with such behaviour, with such a brutal presence and with such intentions can join the european body, how, while a country behaves like this, we will accept this asian country into the european body.
mr president, there is no doubt that the birth of emu and the euro is one of the high points of the 60-year journey towards european integration. it is the first time in europe, and indeed in the world, that we have had such a structured transition to a common currency, not by war, not by bloodshed, but by consensus and political will of independent countries, which together, democratically, have decided to take this path of monetary stability. it was a difficult path, but one that benefited both components in europe: those countries that were addicted to fiscal stability and continued on the same path of anti-inflationary tactics, and others that, after decades of fiscal laxity, found in the euro for the first time an oasis of rationalization and consolidation of their basic economic dimensions. that's all for now. but now we are at a very difficult juncture, at a crucial moment when we must also look at the "o" of emu. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction, but it is not the right direction. secondly, we must denounce the economic populism of those who want to use the crisis to question again what we have achieved.
mr president, commissioner, mrs bauer's report does not need our support to show the way forward to eliminate this phenomenon which is a disgrace to society and creates a cycle of reproduction of injustice, where children see their mother in the family doing the same job as the father and being paid less and colleagues see their colleagues working as they do and being paid less. so society tolerates this phenomenon and reproduces it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. the state must also take appropriate measures to take account of periods spent in family life, periods of unemployment and periods of illness, and provide fair taxation to equalize the remuneration of women for their work, which should be measured not only by the time spent in the job but also by the quality and the additional elements provided by women's contribution to the job. i repeat, commissioner, mr cappato's call for you to reconsider your position as commissioner on the differences in the retirement age of men and women in some member states. my country had these disputes and was taken to the european court. these differences were corrective differences for all women, regardless of whether they were mothers or not. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the right of residence for women in the member states. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are faced with another bizarre proposal from the commission: the commission has already proposed that the community should be able to take part in the negotiations on the free movement of goods, and that the community should be able to take part in the negotiations on the free movement of goods. it raises a very big "why". why, commissioner, did you have this idea, and if you did, why did you not put it to the consultation you organised in 2006 and why did you not include it in an impact assessment which you are obliged to carry out under the new principle of better regulation? so you have to explain to us why we're going to tell hundreds of workers that they're going to lose their jobs, especially in these difficult times of crisis; i would like to ask the commissioner to explain to us what this impact on the internal market is that is so important that you are actually abolishing all the land stations on the borders with third countries, which in the case of my country, greece, operate very successfully without any problem of fraud, without any impact on the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the subject. as far as i am concerned - and mrs lulling has made this quite clear, as has imco in its opinion - we have not received any convincing answer. this leads us to believe that the commission regards this as more of a whim. we have not received any convincing answer. so i'm making a last-minute appeal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. in member states such as greece with extensive land borders to third countries, the replacement of such shops shows a continuous long-term trend, smooth operation of businesses and speculation, while on the other hand the issue of systematic breach of the purchase criterion for private use or cases of systematic abuse and tax evasion are clearly controlled by the national authorities. i believe that maintaining duty-free shops at land borders would be consistent with the commission's proposals, and that the burden of checking how they operate and tackling cases of tax evasion would be shared by other shops at ports and airports. i therefore believe that we should support amendments nos 57, 63, 64, 65 and, in the final analysis, amendment no 69, which extends the operation of these shops until 2012.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we need. they need action, not just words. today we call on the council to take account of the expectations of the citizens and to rise to the occasion with regard to the solidarity fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have all witnessed the despair of our fellow citizens who are affected and we all know and understand the importance of these citizens feeling that the european union is close to them. the european parliament adopted the european commission's plan for the new solidarity fund in may 2006. a new fund, more flexible, faster and more efficient, is planned to be implemented in the period 2007-2013, but has so far been stumbling into the council's drawers. honestly, i can't understand how it's possible that we could have such a good tool and it's not active. the new solidarity fund is needed above all by the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the solidarity fund is an important instrument for social policy in member states affected by natural disasters. it is a practical expression of solidarity with the european citizens affected by such disasters and it is through such procedures that the vision of the european union's active support for its citizens is justified. the fund's significant contribution to the response to major disasters was seen in the cases of floods in central europe, the earthquakes in italy, the fires in portugal, and those in my country, greece, in 2007. it is characteristic that a large number of member states have made use of the fund's appropriations. at the same time, with the existing regulation and instruments, the european union is unable to respond to other types of crisis that are not due to purely natural causes, such as industrial pollution, a pandemic in europe, droughts and various others. the proposed reform of the regulation covers wider needs, speeds up procedures, introduces innovation in advance payment and generally takes practical and positive measures. in view of the above, and the fact that the european parliament has adopted the commission's proposal, i do not understand the reasons and the reasons for the delay in ratifying the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a way that is compatible with the common market, and that the community's financial instruments are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. the council has a great responsibility and we hope that it will respond to the call of the european parliament and take it up immediately, even though it is absent today.
madam president, first of all we owe a debt of gratitude to our colleague mr luis manuel capoulas santos and to the others who have been involved in producing a very commendable report. the greek geographical areas hosting people working with tobacco are the poorest in greece; i am afraid they are also the poorest in europe. and these people who live there have no other job but to smoke. and they are asking for nothing more than an extension of the tobacco regime until at least 2013. they also ask, if possible, for the injustice of 2004 to be rectified and for tobacco subsidies to remain at 50% only from 2010 in the first pillar to support their income. it is a humanitarian rather than a technical request, madam president.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr capoulas santos on his very fine report, but i would also like to thank the coordinator and shadow rapporteur, mr goepel. i would like to mention three things briefly: firstly, and most importantly for us, the maintenance of the current tobacco aid scheme until 2013 and the non-transfer of 50% of the funding from pillar i to pillar ii. i think that is both unfair and unequal. why do i assume that? because it's only tobacco that you're trying to apply it to. and secondly, for over half a million families, i consider it disastrous. especially for my country, where most tobacco farmers are small and poor, they will abandon their crops and go to the big urban centers. extremely dangerous for both the environment and the countryside. and i'd like to make one thing clear here. we are all against smoking. but let's not confuse two things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it is also appropriate to maintain the existing special rights regime, in particular for livestock rights. thirdly, i am opposed to the minimum thresholds for direct aid proposed by the commission. what are these ? the commission says that those who earn less than 250 euros a year or who cultivate less than 1 hectare a year should not be funded. oh, my god! the european union wants to support both large and small producers. we need everyone. and most of all we need small farmers. therefore, i ask that this be revised and that reinforcements be obtained, however small.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr capoulas santos on his report. mr barnier, mrs fischer boel, despite the schools, where each of you has a different approach to the common agricultural policy and its role in the development of the european union, you have achieved the impossible, namely to inspire distrust and disappointment in both small and large producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is reduced, and that the milk quota is reduced in the same way as the quota for the other member states. the commission's proposal for a 50% reduction, without any justification under the treaty, even the horizontal policies of the common agricultural policy, is a scandalous proposal. further distinction: the exception of small holdings of 10 hectares, where specifically for greece island areas will be excluded. commissioner, i am aware of your communication policy, but i also have the deepest respect for you. you said it was a smooth landing. be careful which airport we land at. there's also the guantanamo airport.
mr president, i would like to add a few points: firstly, that a strengthened pillar a of the common agricultural policy is needed to enable producers to meet the needs and problems of the market today; secondly, any additional diversification creates income insecurity for producers; thirdly, the creation of new support mechanisms, such as the mutual assistance and production insurance fund, cannot be financed by additional expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it uses equal pay to promote the downward equalization of women's rights. workers should not forget that, under the pretext of implementing eu gender equality legislation, the eu, the centre-left and centre-right governments of the member states have abolished their acquired rights, such as the ban on night work for women, while with the same legislation the eu, nd and pasok have methodically raised the retirement age of women in the public sector in the name of eliminating discrimination and gender equality! the report not only fails to address the real causes of the gender pay gap for equal work, the fact that women and young people are the first victims of parttime work, flexible working relationships, 'vulnerability', but the solutions it proposes are moving in exactly this direction. the argument of "combining family life and work" suggests the generalization of flexible forms of employment to women, while it proposes hot money from public funds, public works contracts and grants as a reward to "good capitalists" for implementing the obvious: the provision of equal pay for equal work between men and women.
madam president, the prime ministers in the midst of a crisis should plan together their social interventions and not just economic ones. obviously the banks had to be bailed out. but europe should have already focused on the immediate rescue of low and middle income groups, on boosting employment and social cohesion. the social state and social cohesion cannot be the tail of europe's open and uncontrolled markets or economic policy, a survival bait thrown at those who are downtrodden in a time of crisis. they are, on the contrary, and should be treated as such, the core of european economic development. secondly, to achieve the first objective, the conditions of the stability pact must be adapted urgently, a new social maastricht, a pact for sustainable development, employment and social protection, always subject to strict rules and conditions. thirdly, europe must lead the world in innovation and new technologies by investing in education and research for green growth, which will of course mean a huge increase in the european budget. let's move on! the oil of the future will be sun, air and water. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. if europe is left behind, as voices are now being heard, then the america of barack obama, which we all triumph over having been elected, will be ahead and we will lose. and fourthly, we need new rules on transparency of market control and supervision. the present system, which the crisis has brought to light, of privatising the profits of the few but making the losses of the many social, will lead to new crises.
in writing. the economic crisis - a deep crisis of the capitalist system itself - is currently afflicting workers by exacerbating the problems of unemployment, undermining social security and pension systems, and further reducing the income and living standards of the working class family. capital and its political representatives are throwing the burden of the crisis on the backs of the workers and are making a full-scale attack on labour rights in order to ensure their profitability. the council and the commission in their statements, and the european parliament itself, endorse the choices of capital and insist on continuing the same disastrous economic and monetary policy, even calling for the acceleration of reforms to the detriment of workers and capitalist restructuring. they support the un, the maastricht treaty and the four freedoms, the stability pact and the reduction of social spending within the framework of budgetary discipline, they demand even stronger supervision of the member states by the eu, they welcome its socially uncontrolled role and empower it to support capital more effectively. they call for even more rapid and faithful implementation of the anti-working-class lisbon treaty and the eu's broad economic policy guidelines. the workers and the popular strata are themselves being driven by experience into conflict and counterattack with the policy of barbarism.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i would like to reply to mrs sonik and then to mr sonik. the 1996 council common position remains valid, which calls for encouraging a process of transition towards democratic pluralism and respect for human rights and, to this end, intensifying dialogue with the cuban authorities and with all sectors of society. the european union expresses its readiness to support the process of opening up as the cuban authorities make progress on the path to democracy. as regards your situation, mr president, i have taken note of it and it is clear that we must be extremely vigilant and support you in your efforts as regards all members of the european parliament. that is the council's position.
president of the council. - madam president, i shall try to answer this set of questions relating to the financial crisis which has been affecting the world economy for more than 15 months and which continues to weigh on the financing of european economies. as regards the union, i would remind you that the council meeting of 15 and 16 october last confirmed the commitment that, in all circumstances, the necessary measures will be taken to safeguard the stability of the financial system, to support the important financial institutions, to prevent bankruptcies and to ensure the protection of savers' deposits. as regards the financial system, the european council also strongly called for accountability of all actors in the financial system, in particular the banking sector. he stressed that the real performance of company executives should be reflected in their pay, including severance pay and anything related to golden parachutes. similarly, it agreed to ensure that stock option profits or the remuneration system do not lead to excessive risk taking or an extreme focus on short-term objectives. following this meeting, the informal meeting of heads of state and government on 7 november to prepare the coordinated european approach to the g20 meeting held last weekend in washington aimed to take swift decisions on transparency, global regulatory standards, including accounting, financial supervision and crisis management, preventing conflicts of interest and creating an early warning system to build confidence for savers and investors. in particular, in reply to the question put to me by the honourable member on behalf of the pse, who took up mr evans' question, on the concrete measures under consideration to deal with the crisis, i would like to refer to the reform of the directive on bank capital requirements which is under consideration in the council. the council's work on this proposal is well advanced. the commission has also recently proposed a regulation on a system of accreditation of credit rating agencies. this proposal goes in the same direction, in that the capital requirements are determined on the basis of the ratings granted. as regards the protection of deposits by savers, the commission proposed amending the existing directive to increase the minimum guarantee to eur 50 000, with a view to a second increase to eur 100 000 in the future. the european parliament and the council are currently examining this proposal. i would also like to note that following the european council of 15 and 16 october, the financial crisis unit was set up. as you know, this unit is an informal mechanism for alerting, exchanging information and evaluating between the representatives of the council, the president of the european council, the commission, its president, the president of the european central bank, the president of the eurogroup and the governments of the member states, as well as, of course, the president of the economic and financial committee, who is the working head of this unit. in reply to the questions put by mrs mcguinness and mr mitchell, i would like to point out that the european council has approved an action plan which provides member states with a comprehensive common framework of national measures to rescue and support the financial sector. the european council called on the member states to take account of the possible impact of their national decisions on other member states. we also know that iceland has faced serious difficulties, and a message of solidarity was sent to that country at the european council in october. there were meetings on the sidelines of the ecofin council on 4 november and, finally, with the council of the european economic area, i myself met the representatives of iceland and i believe that we were able to find satisfactory mechanisms of solidarity and that we were also able to adapt the agreements linking us to that country in the framework of the council of the european economic area. as regards the question raised by mr papadimoulis, which concerns the stability and growth pact, i would like to recall the conclusions adopted by the council on 7 october, in which it confirmed its willingness to see the pact implemented, taking account of the exceptional circumstances that we are aware of. this decision of 7 october must of course be implemented in the light of the g20 conclusions, which call for the use of all available margins to support activity. in reply to mrs andrikiene's question, i would remind you that according to the commission, hungary, latvia, estonia, bulgaria and romania are more affected by the financial crisis than other member states. these states have been able to benefit for years from very favourable external financing conditions, which has, of course, created current account deficits and an accumulation of external debts. the financing conditions are now obviously much less favourable and the problem facing these states is to deal with the refinancing of their external debt. as regards hungary, the council has just granted a loan of eur 6.5 billion under the medium-term financial support mechanism for the balance of payments, and to the council's loan is added a loan of eur 12.5 billion from the international monetary fund and a loan of eur 1 billion from the world bank. i don't know if it's dollars or euros. the current budget of eur 12 billion is therefore likely to be insufficient to meet future needs, which is why the commission has just proposed an increase of eur 25 billion in the aid that can be granted to this country. it is a proposal on which the council has asked parliament to give its opinion.
mr president, even mr prodi, the former president of the commission, called the stability pact 'stupid' because it only concerns inflation, the deficit and debt, at a time when europe is sinking into recession and needs measures to boost growth, employment and social cohesion. i ask you, besides loosening him up, are you thinking of replacing him? and if you cannot and will not, then please tell the president of the council to stop this crisis tourism.
president of the council. - madam president, we will not go to that extreme, but i want to answer the questions of mrs goudin and mrs dahl factually, and i will tell your assembly, beyond my own hat, what the elements of the investigation report made by the inspectorate of forces in action and territorial defence are. for the information of the house, i am not required to address these issues in the course of my duties, but i do. i am summarizing the investigation into what happened on 13 july 2003 at the chem-chem camp in bunia, democratic republic of congo. this investigation, which was carried out with the support and collaboration of the swedish forces, shows that the young man captured by the french forces on 13 july 2003 during operation artemis was not tortured or abused. he was held for several hours in the camp, then released. the investigation was ordered on 31 march 2008 by the chief of the general staff of the armed forces, in addition to the preliminary investigations carried out by the swedish and french authorities in their respective countries; there has been very good cooperation between these authorities and it is as a result of these investigations that it appears that the serious accusations made against the french and swedish military and the two colonels concerned were unfounded. in conclusion, it is clear that the protection of human rights and international conventions must be respected at all stages of foreign, security and defence policy operations, from planning to implementation, and that this must be done in particular by continuous training of teams in this field.
president of the council. - madam president, i fully agree with what mrs mcguinness has said. it is obvious that whatever external operations are carried out, whether they are carried out within the framework of the european security and defence policy in another framework or in a joint framework, they must of course be announced and reported. transparency must be absolutely necessary. i fully agree with mrs mcguinness and it is for this very reason that we must develop all the military erasmus. i hope that the next european council in december will be able to develop the aspects of training and the exchange of good practice and experience between the member states in the context of the european security and defence policy. in reply to mrs mcguinness, i think this is an extremely important element if we are to develop a strategy for security and a european presence on the external front. you are absolutely right, ma'am. as regards the question put by mr rübig, we shall deal with it tomorrow morning when we have our debate on the democratic republic of congo. what i believe is that the role of the un is indeed important. the question is how we can strengthen and complement our resources.
president of the council. - madam president, in reply to mrs panayotopoulos, i would like to say that the council fully shares the view that agreement must be reached as soon as possible on the proposal for a regulation laying down the detailed rules for the application of regulation no 883/2004, which concerns the coordination of social security systems. the aim is to establish the conditions for the adoption of this regulation with a view to completing, if possible by may 2009, the reform of the coordination of social security schemes. this proposal for a regulation, which was presented by the commission in january 2006, has since then, in view of its scope and the high technical level of its provisions, been examined, chapter by chapter, under the various presidencies that have followed. as a result of the sustained efforts of the previous presidencies, partial general guidelines were adopted. this process was completed, under the french presidency last month, with the adoption of partial general guidelines on the two remaining chapters, relating to benefits for accidents at work and occupational diseases and death benefits. in the meantime, parliament delivered its opinion at first reading last july. the council welcomes the very broad convergence of views with parliament. it sees it as the fruit of a very constructive cooperation between our two institutions which began at the very beginning of the examination of this text. the adoption of a common position on this draft regulation is one of the important issues for the french presidency in the field of the development of the mobility of persons within the union. the presidency will therefore do its utmost to ensure that this common position is adopted by the council on 15 december so that parliament can adopt it at its january part-session.
madam president, i would like to ask the president-in-office of the council about the new european commission proposal 2008/414 on patients' rights in crossborder services. what is the french presidency's position on this new proposal?
acting president of the council. - madam president, the french presidency is clear that we must support this commission proposal. it is very practical to make the procedures easier for insured persons, to speed up the time taken for the institutions to respond to and deal with crossborder situations in the various fields of social security - accidents at work, occupational diseases, disability - and we must move forward to adopt rules in this area. as you know, in connection with the french presidency, we asked alain lamassure, whom you know well, a question on ways of overcoming the obstacles to crossborder mobility. one answer is harmonization in the field of social security. a good balance must be struck between maintaining national social security traditions, which are important in each of our member states, and making the adjustments which are strictly necessary to facilitate crossborder mobility. it is in this context that we support the proposal you have indicated and that we, as regards the presidency, under the auspices of xavier bertrand, are making every effort to see that it is adopted.
president of the council. - madam president, i would like to reply to mr rübig and mrs doyle, because these are questions that have already come to my attention. i think, first of all, mrs doyle is right. all technologies must be used, and in particular electronic technologies - and they make this possible - to facilitate the processing of patient records. secondly, mrs doyle, we are in favour of a collective solution, provided that under the guise of mobility we do not call into question the traditions of each individual in the field of social security. thirdly, i agree with mr rübig on this point, what we are seeing are indeed legal problems relating to the payment of contributions, relating to double taxation, mr rübig is right. and to give you my personal feeling, having looked at these problems closely only last week, because we come from border countries, mr rübig, i know very well, what it seems to me is that national administrations are sometimes not really trained, insured and sufficiently motivated to solve these kinds of problems. that seems to me to be the real difficulty, in answer to mrs doyle. and that is why we need a collective approach, a community approach, the commission really needs to push a lot, and that is what the presidency is pushing for, because there are administrative, bureaucratic and cultural reluctance within each of our member states. the question of crossborder mobility is a real issue for building europe, for developing a new european generation and, quite simply, for citizens to see the concrete advantages of the european union, whereas there are too many administrative obstacles to such crossborder movements, particularly in the social field, as well as in the fiscal field. and this is a real subject. i believe that this also requires profound reforms, and links between the community institutions, the commission in particular, and the national administrations.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this file, which has turned out to be more complicated than expected. we are taking our commitment to reduce regulatory burden on companies very seriously and are grateful for parliament’s continued encouragement in this regard. however, it is difficult not to be disappointed with some of the proposed amendments to the first company law directive. let me recall that the european parliament, in its resolution of 12 december 2007 on the commission work programme 2008, welcomed the commission’s determination to reach the goal of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens on undertakings at eu and national levels by 2012. parliament stated that it would regard this as a key priority for the coming months, in particular as regards smes, and as an essential contribution to reaching the lisbon targets. parliament therefore underlined that it would examine legislative proposals in this light. furthermore, in its resolution of 21 may 2008 on a simplified business environment, parliament supported this specific proposal for modifications to the first company law directive, agreeing that it should be easier for companies to publish statutory information. in particular, parliament strongly supported the use of new technology. however, the legal affairs committee’s report that is now on the table completely undermines the objective of the commission’s proposal. the commission’s impact assessment estimated the reduction potential at about eur 600 million per year. under the draft report, member states could not only continue to impose all current administrative burdens on companies, but add new ones. so, whereas the commission proposal is based on the idea that the new publication tool of an electronic platform should replace the current cumbersome publication methods, the draft report would, instead of reducing administrative burdens, add new ones. the objective of the commission’s proposal has been supported by an overwhelming majority of stakeholders. it was also supported by a very large majority of member states in the discussions in the council that have taken place so far. but adopting the directive in the form currently proposed by the committee on legal affairs would risk jeopardising the credibility of the entire administrative burden reduction exercise. to the extent that the objective of the committee on legal affairs amendment is to secure the financing of newspapers that currently depend on the fees for company publications, this objective can in principle be shared by the commission. however, other ways for this financing have to be found. it cannot be imposed on the companies by obliging them to comply with publication obligations that do not provide any significant added value in today’s technological environment.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i should like to convey our view: the commission's proposal is well-structured and, of course, aims to reduce the administrative burden. we think that, on the translation side, it is entirely justified to simplify procedures and to recognise translations made by other certified translators from any other member state and we fully support this approach. but i come to the issue of publication. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights believes - and i think the committee on legal affairs believes very rightly - that there are citizens who have a right to learn, as well as businesses. the citizens, unfortunately, commissioner, do not have the same access to electronic means that your original proposal obliged them to have. we live in a pluralistic europe with different models and different values. as an irish commissioner, you know that the result of the referendum in your country, the perception that many of your countrymen had of it, was a model for the whole of europe, and that it cost us dearly. so we do not want to introduce this model into europe, when we know very well that in my own country, in my own region, access to the internet is limited. so why should we deny these populations, these european citizens, the right to learn about things that concern them through other traditional ways? i therefore believe, commissioner, and i share the view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs, that the electronic platform should be mandatory - and rightly so. but it doesn't have to be exclusive. we must allow all european citizens to have access to information. we don't want to see in a region of europe someone finding out from blackberry what's going to happen in their area because many don't have blackberry where i live. so i think that as a representative of the commission, and i think we should send the same message to the council, you should take seriously the position we expressed in the committee on legal affairs unanimously and in the committee on economic affairs by a large majority. and i say to you, if you have ideas to ignore, you had better reconsider them, because only through fruitful democratic dialogue can we find mutually acceptable solutions for the benefit of the many, not the few.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the mandate of the european council of march 2008 was to take new legislative initiatives for rapid implementation in order to improve the business environment for union companies through reducing administrative burden and costs. the commission proposal for a directive under discussion does not, in my view, contribute much to the objective pursued. the core of the problems facing enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, lies in creating the objective conditions for improving the general bureaucratic, legislative and tax environment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in this case, the publication of the balance sheets and other financial data of companies is primarily aimed at complying with the principle of transparency and publicity of commercial activities. however, the low penetration of the internet in a significant number of member states of the union is not a sufficient guarantee. in addition, compulsory and exclusive electronic registration would also mean the loss of thousands of skilled jobs in traditional print media. the press is also an essential element of the principle of transparency and of the democratic life of the union, and it makes an undeniable contribution to the pluralism and diversity of the european union. i think that the safety net of introducing the single fee, of continuing the possibility of publication in printed form in conjunction with the creation of the electronic register, as agreed and voted on - i stress this - by all the wings of the committee on legal affairs, is the appropriate balanced and rational solution. in conclusion, let me stress that it is the european parliament's duty and duty to give its productive consent to the community's judicial procedure by fully preserving the autonomy of its legislative will. the european parliament's plenary session is called upon to adopt the view already expressed by the committee on legal affairs by adopting the report by mrs kauppi, whom i congratulate on her work. and an afterword to you, commissioner. i do not know how disappointed you are with the legal affairs committee and what it is unanimously proposing. but i would like to say to you, and i sincerely hope that once the treaty of lisbon comes into force, the culture of cooperation between the commission and the european parliament will change - it must change. and we're waiting for her right now. the democratically elected european parliament is waiting for her.
mr president, commissioner, i have the privilege of speaking as the last speaker, but i would like to make one political comment and two technical remarks on the matters of the directive we are discussing. the political observation is that today we are witnessing a rare moment in the european parliament, a complete consensus from all sides of the hemisphere, from the right and the left, as to the direction that parliament wants to give to a particular legislative initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not undermining the commission's proposal. we're trying to modernize it and humanize it. make it more reasonable and practical. that is my political observation. two brief technical remarks: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would add that it is absolutely fair and absolutely right, alongside the general rule of electronic publication, to allow member states - particularly those member states where access to the internet is particularly low - to have publication by the press for obvious social and economic reasons. i would like to comment on the question of translation, which is not a problem. the possibility of having only one recognized translation gives us practical solutions. the question of translation here is not a question of language, it is not a question of transparency, it is not a question of style. it is a practical matter which can be solved simply by recognizing the translation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're not undermining it, we're improving it.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner ferrero-waldner, thank you very much for this very lively debate. we are fully aware of the call made in your assembly for the european union to deploy a military mission to this region of the republic of congo, but i think it should be remembered that the european union is already involved in the republic of congo, first of all through community aid: 50 million euros in 2008, then 6 million euros in emergency aid as mentioned by benita ferrero-waldner. there are two esdp missions to support the reform of the congolese police and army, whose unpreparedness and inefficiency were tragic in this case. the european union had already intervened in 2003 through a military mission called artemis, but the conditions were different because it was then for the european union to prepare the arrival of a un mission, which was done. so what can be done beyond rhetoric in the face of the tragedy we all share in this region? the quickest solution to the humanitarian emergency would be to strengthen the existing one, i.e. monuc, with a strengthened mandate and additional personnel. i mean that, as far as france is concerned, it is prepared to participate in this reinforcement because waiting for the deployment of a european union mission would be to risk wasting time when, as you know, the union is already engaged in chad and the central african republic, and so there is the problem of deployment and, to be clear with you, a number of states in the council could not participate in these reinforcement operations at the moment. as several speakers have indicated, the strengthening of monuc would take advantage of the fact that its mandate is under chapter 7 of the united nations charter; it should also be noted that the halt of the nkunda offensive on 29 october allowed monuc to begin to redeploy. the next steps for the un mission are to reconfigure with new elite troops, including indian gurkhas expected this month. we must add 3,000 men to the 17,000 already present, and that is the spirit of the steps we have taken in new york at the security council in recent days. but as several speakers have said, we cannot stop at the military situation alone, since, in the face of the atrocities which, as many have pointed out, have been going on for a very long time, we must give priority to a political solution, as the visits of commissioner michel, bernard kouchner and david miliband have shown, in order to enable contacts between the protagonists of the region to be re-established. we must give priority to the negotiations which are being conducted in the african context, whether it be the african union, the sadc, the great lakes conference, in order to relaunch the goma and nairobi processes. and in the longer term, the union must help the republic of congo to have a real army - there is no real army, it is totally dilapidated - which will enable it to ensure the security of the country, which is vast and very difficult to control, and to prevent the emergence of new humanitarian crises. i also share the view of those who have stressed that the causes of the conflict must also be tackled, and this is what the council did on 10 november, calling for action to be taken against the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the region by rebel groups, among others. should monuc be given the task of monitoring the fight against illegal exploitation? the question is open, but in the face of a humanitarian crisis, and many have also stressed this, the priority of monuc must be the protection of civilian populations and i believe that what is important, this has also been said, is that one of the solutions to the plundering of resources must be found at the regional level in order to put an end to the chains of exploitation and export of these resources to our countries. finally, i note that the un panel resolutions on these issues should be implemented. these are the additional points i would like to bring to the attention of the house.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i think the debate has shown that we all agree that we must act quickly, very quickly, in a tragic situation. as regards the sending of a european force to the east of the drc, i believe that it has become clear that only a european force whose sole purpose is to secure the humanitarian space could possibly be accepted by all the countries in the region. it would therefore be a question of imposing on all parties to the conflict a humanitarian ceasefire for the delivery of aid to the populations near the front. this is precisely what the great lakes countries are asking for, for whom a ceasefire and the delivery of humanitarian aid remain an absolute and immediate priority. in this connection, they also indicated the ways to be explored: political negotiation and, above all, as we all said, the strengthening of monuc. although the humanitarian situation is gradually coming under control, some member states do not seem to exclude the possibility of a cfsp mission. however, no final decision will be taken until there is european unanimity on this matter and the united nations security council formally decides on it. as regards the strengthening of monuc, i think it is absolutely essential, and so does louis michel. monuc is taking a constructive and objective approach to this conflict, but we cannot ask it to do anything that is not its mission. monuc must maintain peace within a certain agreed framework and not impose peace on all parties by military means. it's hard to grasp sometimes, but i think the nuance is quite considerable. however, it is clear that, given the size of the congo and the complexity of the problem, monuc is not sufficiently equipped - as you all said and it is true - neither in terms of resources nor perhaps in terms of its mandate, and for this reason the request by the un secretary-general for more resources, including three thousand additional men, is undoubtedly justified. the extension of the monuc mandate, particularly with regard to the control of the illegal exploitation of natural resources - which is, as you said, the real nerve of the war - is very important, as many have also rightly pointed out, in order to be able to have an effective influence on the development of the conflict. and once peace is restored, this issue will have to be addressed by the international community. the example of the kimberley process certainly opens up avenues for exploration in this regard and, in practice, the commission has already released 75 million euro for the programme in eastern congo, for the reconstruction of state structures such as the judiciary and the police, and to re-establish control over the exploitation of resources. this programme is being put in place and i hope that the first results will be achieved.
i have received, in accordance with rule 103 (2), six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 20 november 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the crisis in the motor vehicle industry.
president of the council. - madam president, thank you to all the speakers, this is a very rich debate on an important subject and i share, like the presidency, the feeling expressed by the majority of you, that we must absolutely assume our responsibilities in dealing with an exceptional situation affecting a structuring industry: you mentioned the figures, 12 million jobs in the european union and an industry which is affected by the financial crisis, because of the share of consumer credit, which is the hallmark of this industry. it is also an industry facing unprecedented environmental challenges. it is one thing that we have fallen behind, but it is another that we do not have to catch up, at a time when we are also committed to the energy-climate package and this is one of the major challenges facing the european union. so the situation is exceptional and the european response, for the presidency, must be up to the challenge. this answer must take account of three factors: the first factor is what our partners in third countries are doing. the competitiveness of this european industry must be preserved. secondly, the major objectives of the european union must be preserved: the commission's proposals must help to achieve the objectives of the energy and climate package that you know; i believe that we are close to an agreement on co2 from cars and that it is now within reach in the procedures involving your assembly, the commission and the council. thirdly, the integrity of the internal market must also be respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i note the paths envisaged by commissioner verheugen which i believe are good paths and which the presidency supports, whether it is through european investment bank loans to the most important green investments, whether it is through tax incentives to make automobile demand more compatible with environmental requirements, to also renew an ageing fleet which is therefore moving away from environmental requirements, to reduce the cost of motor vehicles, which also seems to be an important objective and to move towards vehicles which are more economical. finally, i think it is also important to develop public guarantees in this sector when we are faced with emergency situations. i also think that there is a need for incentives to develop training and, in some cases, retraining, because in the coming weeks and in the first months of 2009 we can unfortunately expect an even more difficult situation. so whatever commissioner verheugen proposes seems to me to be in the right direction, we will support it. now it is a matter of time, we must act quickly and i also agree with mr goebbels' idea of a stable and aggressive european framework to safeguard the competitiveness of this indispensable industry.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i'm sorry mrs harms is no longer with us. after such an unusual attack, bordering on insult, it would have been right to give me the opportunity to respond. i'll put it in writing. but i reject what mrs harms has said, in the name of the commission, in style and content in all its resoluteness! (applause from the centre) this is unacceptable! the european car industry is not dependent on a drop of water. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are no subsidies paid to the european automobile industry, and it does not ask for subsidies. our whole industrial policy is based on the very idea of being independent of subsidies. the only instrument available is the european investment bank's low-interest loans. just so everyone's clear on what this means: these loans are then at interest rates perhaps 1% below market conditions. this is necessary in order to finance the investments which you, as a european legislator, are asking car manufacturers to make, namely investments in modern, environmentally friendly technologies. that is why the european investment bank is doing this, and not just for the european automobile sector. the impression has been created that the automobile industry is the only european industry which can avail itself of such loans from the european investment bank. no, that's not the case! it goes through all the sectors, so it's nothing special at all. i would urge that the impression not be given that the european automobile industry is a struggling industry dependent on the state. it does not and it does not need to, because it is clearly the most efficient automobile industry in the world in terms of its technical level and its competitiveness. i am convinced that it will remain so. we have been working for years with industry and science to develop the modern technologies of the future. we have spent a lot of money on this in the seventh framework programme for research, and we have been doing so for years. we are working hard to ensure that the framework conditions for this industry are stable. it was the first industrial sector for which we ever developed such a sectoral policy, and that was precisely because we saw problems coming in time. i would like to say again about the opel case: it is an absolutely exceptional, extraordinary situation which has nothing to do with the company's own commercial policy. it is a consequence of problems which have arisen in the united states of america, which affect europe and for which we must find a solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i do not think it is a good idea to start a european initiative with the aim of having similar legal regulations for all european car manufacturers. i'm sure there's not many people who would agree with that. i am not sure that the commission has changed its position on this matter. but decisions are soon to be expected.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
in writing. i voted against the capoulas santos report on the new support scheme for farmers under the common agricultural policy, as i believe that it is not possible to ensure the sustainability of agriculture at european level. indeed, financing the agricultural sector is essential to ensure the sustainability of the sector and food security in europe. however, this financing should be provided from the community budget and not be at the expense of the small and medium-sized producer, as for example by establishing minimum aid ceilings. on the contrary, the criterion of staff should be given great weight in the payment of aid and a maximum aid per holding should be established. the crisis management system proposed by the commission is also considered to be inadequate. it is more appropriate to set up a public insurance fund based on community funding, aimed at preventing crises and epidemics and ensuring a minimum income for farmers. finally, the report does not include any proposal for the establishment of mechanisms to deal with climate change, which directly affects european farmers.
in writing. the regulations implementing the cap "health diagnosis" are a decisive step in controlling agricultural production by the monopoly business groups, with the aim of increasing their profits, and at the same time preparing the ground for the full-scale attack on the already weakened small and medium-sized farms in 2013. large capital is pushing for greater and faster cap reforms and its adaptation to wto rules in order to concentrate even more land for multinationals, consolidate their dominance in food production and trade and strengthen their position in international competition. the cap's effects on small and medium-sized farmers are already visible, especially after the decoupling of aid from production with the 2003 revision: abandonment of crops, reduction of the rural population, clearing, desertification of the countryside, negative effects on the environment. they are also visible to workers facing the unbearable cost of rising food prices and the growing risks to public health from hazardous substances, questionable raw materials and production methods. we are radically opposed to the proposed regulations which reveal the anti-agricultural character of the cap. we call on small and mediumsized farmers to join the workers in the common struggle against the anti-agricultural policy of the eu and capital. (abbreviated written explanation in accordance with rule 163)
mr president, both the proposals for directives and the two reports are implementing the european union's general immigration policy, which aims to provide cheap labour for european capital to increase its profits. the directive on the granting of a blue card for entry and work in the european union to highly skilled migrants is a brain drain on the poorer countries in order to give european monopolies a better position in global competition, particularly with the united states of america. it does not confer any substantive rights and benefits on beneficiaries, since it requires a pre-existing employment contract. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second directive and report on the single residence and work card are moving in the same direction. only those with a job will be able to enter the european union and take leave. so immigrants are at the mercy of employers. firing will be tantamount to deportation. and for the illegal ones, there's the european immigration pact's trap of 18 months detention, deportation and a five-year ban on entry. the overall policy of the european union legitimizes the cruel and brutal exploitation of immigrants and of workers in the european union as a whole. we support the struggle of immigrants for equal labour and social rights, the struggle to defend and extend the rights of workers throughout the european union.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, for a decade now, virtually no real discussion has taken place about how member states can work together to make europe a more attractive destination for the legal migrants our societies need and a more humane place for those already living among us. indicative of the almost monotonous way in which europe is focusing on the police approach to migration policy is the recent "return directive", which treats, as we know, many poor migrants as common criminals. the main reason for this is that most of the member states of europe have not yet succeeded, on the one hand, in implementing effective integration programmes for immigrants and, on the other, in convincing a large part of their public that the inevitable increase in the diversity of our societies is a desirable development that promotes our economic and social development. in this context, the legislative initiatives we are discussing today can only be welcomed. it is perhaps the first serious attempt to create a common european policy on legal immigration, despite the relative timidity of some of the proposals and despite their problems, some of which we are addressing with amendments such as - many rightly said - the risk of deforestation of poor countries by the most skilled workers. at the same time, however, these individual arrangements concern a small number of privileged, one might say, legal immigrants. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, the european union is still not considered attractive to highly qualified workers from third countries, while thousands of unskilled migrants are entering the union. european migration policy therefore requires a broad and coherent overall approach to peace and security, european development policy and integration and employment policies. the legislative proposal seeks to establish common criteria for a rapid admission procedure for highly qualified migrants. it is necessary to have common, uniform definitions for access to 27 labour markets. it is widely recognised that the european union needs to be able to use skilled manpower from third countries in the long term to enhance its competitiveness and greater economic growth. but there are conditions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the development policy must guarantee the availability of capacity from third countries. the rapporteur - whom i am sorry to hear about - stresses that the arrival of immigrants for highly skilled work cannot be a long-term solution to economic and demographic problems, since economic migration generally affects the national labour markets of the member states. the principle of subsidiarity must be respected as long as there are no uniform social systems and uniform labour legislation. the european parliament therefore recommends that the principle of community preference be strictly observed. the member states, within the framework of their national sovereignty, must determine the volume of admission of third-country nationals and have the right to a zero quota. the granting of a blue card, even if the conditions are met, is left to the discretion of each member state. the european added value is provided by mobility after two years of legal migration to another member state.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission presented its autumn forecast on 3 november, which indicates that the economic outlook is bleak: economic growth is expected to come to a standstill in 2009, increasing by a meagre 0.2% in the european union. 2010 should see a gradual recovery for most eu economies, with growth projected at 1.1% for the eu as a whole. as a result, unemployment is expected to increase to 7.8% in the eu in 2009, with further increase projected for 2010. however, next year we expect inflation to fall back quickly to 2.4% in the eu and to decelerate further in 2010. there is no question that the challenges we face are substantial. hence the commission is now developing a comprehensive strategy to manage the financial crisis and limit the economic downturn. the basis of this strategy is set down in the communication entitled ‘from financial crisis to recovery: a european framework for action’, which indicates how the eu should tackle the next stages of the crisis in a united, coordinated manner. action should be geared towards three objectives: first, building a new financial market architecture at eu level; second, dealing with the impact on the real economy and, third, coordinating a global response to the financial crisis. on 26 november the commission will propose a more detailed version of this eu recovery plan, under the umbrella of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. our aim is to bring together a series of targeted short-term initiatives that will help counter adverse effects on the wider economy, while adapting the medium to long-term measures of the lisbon strategy to take account of the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your reply. but what we have to say to the european citizens today is how we are responding to the great crisis, how we are going to put money into the real economy. the european citizens also demand that this crisis be an opportunity for europe, for a people's europe. my question is: will money be given for public investment, for public works in the coming years?
vice-president of the commission. − parliament, the commission and the council have boosted their cooperation on eu communication and signed the political declaration on communicating europe in partnership on 22 october this year. thank you very much for your strong support on this issue. this is the first time that we have agreed on a common approach to communication. communicating is more efficient and effective if done in a coordinated way on priority issues. besides, it requires a political commitment of all actors, including member states. all institutions have a responsibility to communicate with citizens about the european union. however – and let me stress this firmly – the political declaration also respects the individual responsibility of each eu institution and member state for its own communication strategy and priorities. common communication priorities are at the centre of the political declaration and they will be agreed by the interinstitutional group on information (igi) co-chaired by representatives of each institution. we have already identified and agreed to have four common priorities in 2009: the european elections, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the democratic changes in central and eastern europe and, of course, sustaining jobs, growth and solidarity in europe. implementation will be assured together by parliament, the commission and the council, as well as by member states. therefore we will aim to develop synergies with national, regional and local authorities, as well as with representatives of civil society. our representations and parliament’s information offices in the member states will work with national authorities on joint activities adapted to national conditions. if needed, we will enter into appropriate administrative arrangements between the services at eu and national levels and action will be financed appropriately. it goes without saying that in their actions our institutions and member states will respect multilingualism and cultural diversity. in this context, let me mention that the commission is very active in facing the challenge of multilingualism. among other measures, translators have been assigned to our representations in the member states to serve local needs and help to communicate europe in the language of its citizens. finally, implementation of the common communication priorities will provide excellent platforms for european, national and regional politicians to debate with citizens on eu issues before the european elections. i hope it will have a positive influence on the turnout.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs wallström, for your reply. i should like to begin by saying that the main purpose of this interinstitutional agreement is to establish a single european communication policy, which should be adopted by all the community institutions at a steady pace, step by step, so that citizens are kept informed in a uniform manner. secondly, i would like to have some clarification on the question of the financing of the new proposed actions. are they going to join existing programmes? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. how will the sectoral programmes be financed? will the communication policy be a stand-alone policy or a co-financed policy?
vice-president of the commission. − i know very well that the financial crisis and its impact on the real economies are of huge concern to many europeans and, as such, this will also have a particular impact on the european elections. it is no wonder, then, that most people would like the election campaign to focus on economic issues affecting their everyday lives, such as unemployment, economic growth, inflation and purchasing power. more recent opinion polls also show that people now see the eu as a ‘shelter’ from the current crisis and want the eu to regulate at global level. the commission keeps pace with developments. on 29 october we adopted a framework focusing on dealing both with a crisis in the markets, preventing future crises through reforms of economic governance, and minimising the impact on jobs and growth. proposals to follow this up are in preparation and are central strategic priorities for our legislative and work programme for 2009, which we presented to parliament yesterday and which was debated. it is important that the need for action has been recognised by the commission, parliament and council and that we are about to propose sustaining jobs, growth and solidarity as one of the interinstitutional communication priorities for next year. this means that it will be one of the themes on which eu institutions and member states will work in partnership to communicate on eu activities in this area. plans will be drawn up on how best to do this. i have already mentioned the ep elections, which are another of the interinstitutional priorities. here, preparations are more advanced, as we have all known for some time that it would be a priority. our institutions are working in close cooperation on all election-related communications activities, and the commission will contribute actively to the framework communication strategy adopted by parliament. the commission’s goal is to raise people’s awareness of the elections and generate debate on substantive eu policy issues. this will be partly achieved by the use of our central tools, including the use of audiovisual media and the internet, and complemented by many decentralised activities organised by the representations in each member state in close cooperation with parliament’s information offices. those events should make people aware of the fact that the voter has a choice between different policy visions of europe and that these choices will make a big difference to the lives of all our citizens.
mr. president, thank you for the vice president's reply. i hope that the measures proposed by the commission will be implemented, because from the proposal to the implementation there is time, there is bureaucracy, and i do not know whether the time will be up until the elections, until the citizens see the results. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. and conversations are not always convincing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission. − i would like to stress that, on the lisbon treaty, the european commission has worked through its representations and in close coordination with member states to provide factual and objective information to eu citizens. we have supported this work with communication kits including various materials such as fact sheets, presentations and key messages. we also provided training and briefings for commissioners, representation staff, europe direct information centres and other information multipliers. recognising the importance of the web, we have created a dedicated website with comprehensive information on the lisbon treaty which was launched in the 23 official languages. on that basis the commission representations in member states have developed materials adapted for local needs and better suited for informing citizens. further to this, the representations, including the one in ireland, have drawn up communication plans in close cooperation with the national government and ep information offices in member states. activities that we planned include training for journalists and multipliers, publications of brochures and leaflets, organisation of discussions with civil society and local authorities, and also public events at schools and universities. as such the citizens get tailor-made information in their language and addressing their real concerns.
mr. president, thank you to the vice president. my supplementary question contains one sentence: the commission's proposal is that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union.
i would ask the vice-president to answer our supplementary questions.
member of the commission. − researchers are at the heart of knowledge creation, transfer and exploitation. they are the key for europe to turn the fifth freedom – the freedom of movement of knowledge – into reality, and with that to shape the knowledge-based economy. the supply of human resources for research is indeed best reflected in the number of new university graduates. the benchmark adopted by the education council in 2003, to increase by 15% the number of graduates in member states and decrease gender imbalance by 2010, has been reached. in 2006 there were in the eu-27 about 200 000 more mathematics, science and technology graduates than in 2000. it is clear that not all university graduates go into research. for the european union an additional factor here is that, due to the lower share of private research investments in europe compared to other continents, the market for researchers in the eu is relatively smaller than those of our competitors. on top of that, there is strong competition for attracting and keeping the most talented researchers. this is first and foremost a competition between research and other economic sectors. but there is also a competition between countries and world regions – in particular the us, but also increasingly china and india. the european union is facing the upcoming retirement of generations of researchers in europe, with no prospect of their complete replacement. the situation will get worse if young people are not attracted into the research profession. what is at stake is whether europe in the long term can remain and further develop as a world-class location for research and development. the fact is that researchers in europe are still faced with serious obstacles and a lack of opportunities. when i talk to researchers across europe, i hear about unattractive working conditions and career prospects, an often precarious status and short-term contracts. furthermore, many researchers are still trained in a way which does not equip them with the skills needed in a modern knowledge economy. there are strong disincentives for researchers wishing to move jobs within academia and industry and vice versa. finally, the structural fragmentation of the european researchers’ labour market hinders the transnational mobility of researchers within the european union, due to, in particular, a lack of open, merit-based recruitment and to cultural factors, as well as problems encountered by highly mobile workers in such fields as social security, taxation and transferability of supplementary pension rights. it is therefore high time for europe to step up its efforts to ensure the availability of the necessary researchers in the years ahead. that is precisely why the commission last may proposed a european partnership for researchers: a partnership with and among member states entailing a focused framework to make rapid progress across europe in key areas determining better careers and more mobility. the council has responded favourably to this initiative and we are about to embark on its implementation, centred on national action plans and mutual learning. evidence-based monitoring of progress, data-collection on mobility and career patterns are also foreseen. so, while we currently have very few data, the aim is to provide ourselves with the better statistics that the honourable member is looking for. we have many of the other data but not exactly these specific data. the commission communication on the european partnership for researchers is currently under consideration in this parliament. the commission looks forward to parliament’s opinion, which will hopefully reinforce this common endeavour for the future of research in europe.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a supplementary question concerning the seventh framework programme for research, which has a budget of eur 54 billion: if you have any information, commissioner, after 18 months of implementation of this seventh framework, on how it is progressing, which countries are absorbing it at a satisfactory rate and what are the biggest problems that are emerging and whether the commission intends to make an assessment of the course of this financial framework.
in writing. the report reveals, in all its magnitude, the deeply anti-people ambitions of the eu and of eu capital to demolish social security systems. the report, which is based on the premise of demographic decline in the eu, proposes raising the retirement age and introducing the 'three pillars' system, namely: - hunger pensions from the public social security systems. - expansion of 'professional' pension funds to provide pensions based on the return on contributions. - the shift of workers to private insurance (in eu terms, 'privatization'), the so-called 'third pillar' it thus opens the way for the insurance monopolies to increase their profits by entering another lucrative sector. this attack is part of a package of anti-working-class measures by the eu, such as the generalization of 'well-being', the 'reform' - the demolition of labour law, the institutionalisation of 'labor' companies hiring workers, the directive establishing the idle working time, 65 hours, the arrangement of working time on an annual basis. in the face of the intensified attack of eu capital, the working class must respond with a counter-attack, the formation of the anti-monopoly alliance that will claim its own people's power and lay the foundations for the satisfaction of the people's needs and the people's prosperity.
in writing. the eu as a whole, as well as its powerful individual countries, bear a serious share of responsibility for the worsening of the already tragic situation of the people of the drc as a result of the civil war, as well as of the peoples of the african continent as a whole. the systematic plundering of the wealth of this country, and africa in general, by european colonialists in the past and imperialists today, the incitement or exploitation of civil strife to impose their interests, has led to the phenomenon of africa being the richest continent in the world with the poorest, hungriest and most oppressed inhabitants. the proposed strengthening of the eu's multifaceted interventionist activity, mainly through the military force of the oau, without excluding its parallel autonomous policy or other activity in the country in question, has no real connection with the alleged humanitarian protection of its population, as hypocritically stated in the joint resolution of the liberals, social democrats and greens. humanitarian interest is the pretext. the main objective is to secure a larger market share from eu countries, which is of course linked - as is also implicitly acknowledged in the resolution - to the unhindered continuation of the total plundering of the country's rich mineral wealth.
in writing. we are voting against the motion for a resolution based on the view that it is vital that community environmental legislation is properly and equitably enforced, because this legislation does not protect the environment but the vital interests of eu monopolies. the call for a 'community body of environmental inspectors' is a direct intervention within the member states to ensure the application of the 'polluter pays' principle which allows for the destruction of the environment by paying cheap price, 'green taxation' at the expense of the broad layers of the population, the trade in pollutants, the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness as key criteria for the development of environmental, other, innovative technologies, the use of genetically modified organisms in agriculture and the abolition of the principles of prevention and protection in practice. the eu and its environmental policy, which serve the interests of big business, generate and reproduce food crime, the air pollution of urban centres by 'modern pollutants', forest destruction, soil erosion and desertification, pollution of seas and waters. the environment will be a business sector aimed at maximising the profits of the economic oligarchy, it will suffer the consequences of the reckless and unfair exploitation of natural resources and it will be degraded by capitalist barbarity.
the european parliament must today send a clear message to both sides of this debate. the logic of the financial system we must build for the future and a first reaction to the plan for exiting the crisis presented by the commission on 26 november. the first of these two points is that there can be no doubt that the commission has now clearly received the message that the era of self-regulation or non-regulation is definitely in the past. if some in the commission or even in this parliament had the impression that the real economy would be built on a logic of non-rules, the facts have outdone them. we were late, but we got it! i believe that commissioner almunia is not to blame for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now the new economic order has to be built on a logic that has to do with rules, rules, rules. the second element of the crisis plan presented by the commission last week has many positive elements, and we must acknowledge that the commission has managed (and i know how difficult this is) to combine many disparate points and to offer governments an interlinked framework of actions that have a common logic. now i hear some people on the left and the right saying, "we wish it were different", "maybe it's too expensive", "it's not for us". they themselves would have said if the commission had done nothing, 'the commission is doing nothing, we are waiting for a blueprint' so i think the second message we have to give the commissioner is that the logic of this package is right, it serves the governments and it can be the board on which the real economy will be stepping for the first days after the crisis. thank you very much.
in writing. the council's proposal to give priority to the already strong cooperation between the eu and israel - regardless of the fact that the european parliament has postponed its vote on it - is a challenge to the peoples of europe and the world, an insult to the thousands of victims of israeli atrocities. this proposal effectively justifies israeli 'apartheid', rewards massive israeli violations of international law and the human rights of the palestinian people, the occupation of the gaza strip, the west bank, east jerusalem, the ongoing construction of the 'wall of shame', mass settlements, ignores condemnatory un decisions against israel, and even the 2002 decision of the european parliament to terminate the european union's cooperation agreement with israel. while israel has continued for 60 years the same policy towards the palestinian people which has been condemned by the people and the un, it is provocatively suggested that we close our eyes to the brutal violations of human rights by the israeli occupying forces. it shows once again the hypocrisy of the eu in respecting human rights, using 'double standards' in its policy in accordance with its own interests.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the world food crisis and the rise in prices are the result of the transformation of food from a means of survival into a common commodity, an object of capitalist speculation. the european union, by giving little money and little time, is trying to dismiss its responsibility for the crime against humanity that has been officially declared. we believe that these resources will also end up in the pockets of the multinationals which control the development programmes. the solution to the problem requires respect for the right to food security and adequate food, support for small and medium-sized farmers and the restructuring of local and regional markets, i.e. a radical change in agricultural policy that promotes the transfer of land to the few, the rational exploitation of natural resources and the replacement of food crops with other crops.
mr president, the conference in poznan and, in a year's time, in copenhagen must succeed. there is no room for more cheering and more postponements! the european parliament, by a large majority, almost unanimously, just the day before yesterday, voted for the florenz report, calling for ambitious objectives, sufficient resources and immediate measures, but the dirty alliance within the council and within the commission is trying to undermine and undermine this effort. it is unacceptable that the council should undermine the role of parliament in order to please mr berlusconi and some of the younger members of the european union! they put the interests of european citizens and the historical interests of the european union itself first. the european union must remain at the forefront of this effort and the european parliament must not be undermined in its willingness to contribute.
in writing. the european small business act is part of the anti-people, anti-working class lisbon strategy and the eu's efforts to complete the single internal market at the expense of workers and their rights. the eu is trying to win the agreement of small and mediumsized enterprises on the choices of the big capital which is promoting these projects, by lowering the vat rates on services provided locally and on services employing a large number of workers, in order to serve its own interests and not those of small enterprises and the self-employed. commission president josé manuel barroso gave the real dimensions of the enterprises concerned by the act, defining them as 'those that are taking full advantage of the single market and expanding into international markets to become globally competitive enterprises', and commissioner günter verheugen gave the act's reactionary ideological label, underlining that what is important to it is 'the social recognition of entrepreneurs, and the attractiveness of starting a business career to change negative perceptions about the role of entrepreneurs and taking on business risk. the essence of the proposal, however, lies in the new european private company regime which will allow a 'european private enterprise' to operate in all eu member states, overcoming the current barriers of any social control.
in writing. at a time when eu workers are paying huge sums to finance armaments programmes and the development of military research, when the eu's war industry is growing and the 'legitimate' sales of all the weapons it produces are bringing them huge profits, when the eu as a whole is being militarized, when people are suffering from the imposition of the new order of things, in which the eu is actively involved together with the axis powers and nato, the debate and the demand for the adoption of an eu common position and the adoption of measures to implement the so-called eu code of conduct on arms exports are provoking a sense of peace. the sharpening of imperialist aggression and competition, which will accelerate with the economic crisis of capitalism, has led to an increase in military spending that has even surpassed the period of the 'cold war'. in this respect, it is a mockery and an illusion for the peoples to try to impose rules on arms exports. the response of the eu workers must be to fight against the militarisation of the eu, the euro-army and the arms programmes, the fight against the eu of war as a whole.
mr president, i feel obliged to ask for your attention and the attention of all my fellow members and for your help in the fight against alzheimer's disease. it is a disease of old age, which today afflicts six million of our fellow europeans. but it is not only them that he afflicts; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. i therefore call on everyone to ask the commission and the governments of the member states to make this a priority in europe's health programmes so that we can free 25 million of our fellow citizens from this tragedy.
mr president, the shooting of a policeman by a 15-year-old boy has been the cause of the events that have taken place in athens in recent days. the death of this child is undoubtedly a tragedy that grieves us all. however, this fact alone cannot explain the extremes that followed. i am afraid that we are facing a phenomenon which threatens to take on uncontrollable dimensions, and not only in greece, because the younger generation sees its future as dark, with an insurmountable impasse. similar events have occurred in other european capitals. no one underestimates the seriousness of these events. but in the case of greece there has been a marked exaggeration. the main actors in this were the same people who, through publications and negative comments, blamed the failure of the organisation of the athens olympic games and who, after their successful holding, were forced to make a public apology. i'm sure everyone understands what's going on.
mr president, since saturday, december 6, when we mourned the unjust death of a young student, europe's attention has been focused on greece. the killing sphere was what sparked youth mobilizations across greece, unprecedented for the country. the young people have broken out and in their way they have tried to tell us that they do not want to live in a market society, that they refuse to accept that knowledge is a commodity, that insecurity, competition and greed are not related to their visions of the future. let's be honest with each other. what is being challenged today by young people is the dominant model of an inhumane development that is destroying the welfare state, that is turning the rule of law into a police state, that is alienating, alienating, leading to mutual extermination. we must not ignore, and above all not underestimate, the heartbreaking cry of the young! the solution is not repression but change, change of mindset, change of policy. we owe it to the younger generation, we owe it to the memory of the wronged alexander.
mr president, if we want to highlight the importance of the european union, which is more than 50 years old, we should emphasize that it has put an end to war, that we are living in a time of peace. but we see that peace threatened by other enemies, and one great enemy is violence. that is why we must turn our attention to this violence and oppose it with the culture of love, the culture of solidarity. i think we have forgotten to emphasize the power of human-to-human support and of guiding especially young people in a perspective towards knowledge, towards innovation, towards civilization. if we are advising young people to use violence to express their views, then we should be afraid that the european union is in danger.
mr president, from this platform i too would like to express my indignation and sorrow at the murder of a 15-year-old boy by a policeman in athens. this was the trigger for the events that have shocked greece in recent days. the country is experiencing a social explosion with widespread riots in many cities. the people on the streets, mainly students and students but also the unemployed or low-paid, express the crisis of a society that feels it has no future. anger, indignation, protest all came together with explosive results. faced with this situation a weak outgoing government, the new republic government, left things unchecked, resulting in no state for days. the roots of events are deep and complex: the outbreak of civil unrest is the result of ever-increasing inequalities. it is the result of a neoliberal policy which creates more and more poor, marginalised and excluded people, which endangers social cohesion and leads to extreme phenomena such as the ones we are experiencing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the violence in the country, and it is not the commission's intention to take action against the violence.
i would like to refer to the regulation on plant protection products. i would like us all to accept that the unwise use of pesticides is dangerous to both man and the environment. i would also like to see everyone accept that the use of pesticides has made it possible to produce food on a large scale and to feed the population. so drugs are needed but they must be used in the right way. i am afraid, however, that the new regulation raises a lot of questions and a lot of fears. the european farmers fear that restrictions on them alone will drive them out of production and prevent them from producing competitively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to pay particular attention to this matter, because there is a possibility that we may do harm instead of good. we must approach this matter with great caution and with full knowledge of the facts.
mr president, greek society abhors violence and that is why it was shocked to see a 15-year-old boy killed by a policeman. this has brought the young generation onto the streets en masse and peacefully, as it was the spark that lit a fire and brought to the surface other dead ends: scandals, inequalities, punctuality, unemployment, anarchy, familyism, corruption. in recent years the european court of justice has often condemned the greek authorities for cases of excessive violence and arbitrariness which go unpunished. i ask you, mr president, and all the wings of this house, just as the greek parliament observed a minute's silence in memory of this 15-year-old boy, so too the european parliament, the guardian of human dignity and human rights, should observe a minute's silence in memory of the 15-year-old boy who was murdered a week ago in athens.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are here tonight to discuss a matter which has occupied us for several years, a matter which is of importance to all european workers, namely the revision of the directive on working time. the text which is being presented to the european parliament today is the result of a compromise reached in the council on 9 june last during the slovenian presidency. this compromise concerned both the working time directive and the interim work directive. the council adopted it in the belief that it represents progress for the situation of workers in europe in both its dimensions. with the temporary work directive, on the one hand, the principle of equal treatment on the first day becomes the rule in europe. this is a step forward for the millions of people who work in this sector. the european parliament adopted this directive definitively on 22 october last, and i welcome this decision which will improve the situation of temporary workers in the 17 member states where the principle of equal treatment on the first day is not provided for in national legislation. with the compromise on working time, on the other hand, we are introducing safeguards to the 1993 opt-out, which are in place without restrictions and without a time limit. the text now provides for a ceiling of 60 or 65 hours, depending on the case, compared with the previous limit of 78 hours per week. it also makes it impossible to sign an individual opt-out agreement for four weeks after the recruitment and it introduces increased control by the labour inspectorate. i would add that the council's common position introduces an explicit clause for the revision of the opt-out. finally, i would stress that the slovenian compromise allows for the specific nature of childcare to be taken into account, which will help many countries, particularly in the field of health. of course, the revision of the working time directive is a compromise and, as in all compromises, some of our initial objectives have had to be set aside. i am thinking in particular of the abolition of the opt-out which france defended with other countries, but this line was a minority one and we did not have the balance of forces to impose it on the council. when you vote on second reading, it is important that you bear in mind the objective which we must have: to reach a text acceptable to all, avoiding conciliation where possible. of course there is a significant gap between parliament's opinion at first reading and the council's common position, but parliament must consider that there is an urgency for some states to solve the problem of guard time, that the slovenian compromise contains advances for workers, and that there is no majority in the council to abolish the opt-out which has existed without limit since 1993. in the light of the debates you are about to have, i would like to draw your attention in particular to two points. the council's objective in defining the term 'time in custody' is often misunderstood. the aim is not to call into question the acquired rights of workers, but to safeguard the existing balances in certain member states. the debate in the european parliament could help to shed light on the issues involved in this new definition. the council's intention is not to organise a retreat or a regression of rights. on the contrary, it seeks to preserve the existing balances in the member states, which consist in calculating childcare time in a specific way, to take account of the periods of inactivity it involves. on the revision clause of the opt-out, we must conclude without making winners or losers because, objectively, the balance of power does not allow it. the slovenian compromise provides for the revision of the directive after an evaluation report, in six years. so everything remains open, and that is why i am calling for a truce on this opt-out issue. the european parliament is in a position of responsibility tonight. the outcome of this case, which has been open since 2004, will depend on the vote you take. i hope that the debate which is now opening will abandon any idea of confrontation and take account of the council's strong aspirations as reflected in the common position. i am convinced that in this spirit you can pave the way for a balanced solution that can be reached quickly.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i fully understand the many concerns that have been raised in relation to this complex and important issue. the key question is: does parliament continue with the position it adopted in 2005 at first reading, as reiterated in the rapporteur's draft, or is parliament considering changing its position in response to the common position adopted by the council last september? let me briefly summarise a few points which i believe are relevant to the discussion on working time. first, i believe that the revision of this directive is an important and urgent task. public services across europe are asking us to clarify the legal situation regarding standby time. this question was a key motivation for the revision of the directive. the ongoing uncertainty of recent years has had a very negative impact on the organisation of hospitals, emergency services and institutional care, as well as on support services for disabled people. we've all been asked to take action on this. this is a request that has been made to us by central and local government bodies, organisations, individual workers and citizens, and the european parliament. secondly, there is a very important issue dividing the council and parliament, namely the future of the opt-out. i am well aware of the position adopted by parliament on this matter at first reading. i would point out that in 2005 the commission substantially amended its legislative proposal and proposed the abolition of this derogation, that it did so in response to parliament's first reading opinion and that it sought to defend this position after four years of difficult negotiations with the council. but i think we have to consider the reality. in 2003, only about four member states used this derogation, but today there are 15 member states. and many more member states want to keep it in the future. the considerations which guide the council's decisions are clear. the derogation is already provided for in the current directive and, unless parliament and the council agree to repeal it, it will remain in force without any restriction in its current version. it is therefore in my best interest, in the context of this revision, to ensure that the large number of workers across europe who benefit from the exemption enjoy proper occupational protection. i therefore consider it important to focus on the actual conditions which will ensure freedom of choice for workers who opt for the derogation, and to guarantee the safety and health protection of workers benefiting from the derogation and the absolute limits on the average number of working hours. that is what the common position is about. the common position also contains specific, well-formulated provisions for future revision of the exemption. many member states that have recently introduced the exception have done so mainly for operational emergency purposes. those member states may be able to reconsider the use of this derogation after they have been informed of the effects of any changes we make to the field of work-related emergencies. in conclusion, i am aware of the differences between the opinions of parliament and the council on working time. it will not be easy to reach a mutual agreement between parliament and the council, and we do not have much time left in this term. but i think it is a very important task. i think the citizens of europe would hardly understand why the european institutions, which are able to work together to deal with the aftermath of the financial crisis, would not be able to establish clear, balanced rules on working hours. we should bear in mind that it took four years to reach a common position in the council. i would also like to draw attention to the context of the directive on agency employment, which was adopted at second reading in october. it is easy to imagine how difficult it would be to secure the council's consent now if major changes to the common position were proposed. i think it is important at this point to consider carefully the balance between the issues of content and possible tactics, so that we can move closer to finding a basis for an agreement on working time after today's meeting. the commission is willing to act as a 'fair mediator' for the next steps in the legislative process. i wish the parliament every success in its debate and in its decisions on this very important issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the left group, which i have the honour to represent, is radically opposed to and rejects the council's joint proposal, which unfortunately the commission also supports, because it is a reactionary proposal, a proposal which is welcomed by the employers' lobby and the extreme neoliberals. it is a proposition that turns the clock of history back ninety years to 1919, when the 48-hour week was established. the council's common proposal maintains the anti-worker and anti-people opt-out, abolishes the case law of the court of justice of the european communities on standby time and promotes the annual adjustment of working time, including the abolition of the requirement for collective bargaining. the left group calls for the opt-out to be abolished, the annual adjustment of working time to be abolished and standby time to be working time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the truth is that the employers' unions are applauding you and the workers' unions will be outside parliament tomorrow protesting: 'no to the 65-hour tyre'. and because you talk so much about social europe, the retention of opt-out is a hole that mrs thatcher opened a few years ago, supposedly temporarily for the united kingdom, and now you want to make that hole even bigger and a permanent state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr cercas on his report, which is a worthy one in the face of the council's unacceptable common position. the commission's original proposal and the council's common position both appear to pose serious threats to the health and safety of workers and, above all, to the balance between family and professional life, which is what is required. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is precisely this neoliberal strategy which supports and promotes easy and weightless growth, the exploitation of the workers, the recycling of the unemployed, the eventual split in the trade union movement. it is obvious that the current economic impasse and social turmoil are due to the structural crisis of the neoliberal model, which is why we must not only withdraw the council's common position but also put forward a new proposal that will promote solidarity, political equality and social justice.
the council's common position on the organization of working time is an anti-worker's statement, mr president, and it has rightly provoked a storm of protest from workers in the member states. the cercas report preserves intact the core of the council's common position's reactionary character. it accepts the division of working time into active and inactive, since it recognises the concept of unpaid inactive working time: supermarkets, nurses, doctors and services work under a miserable regime; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. it increases the time for work arrangements from the current four months to a twelve-month period, it maintains the opt-out, it hits the daily fixed working hours, overtime pay, newspapers, collective agreements in general, it facilitates the manipulations of employers to further generalize flexible forms of employment, and this will have serious, painful consequences for social security systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the only service which the council's common position and the efforts of the french presidency have rendered us, mr president, is that we are now discussing this problem again. we are reminded these christmas days of the christmas story by charles dickens. and there the employer, in a certain european country, would not give the hard worker leave. so this christmas fairy tale we'd like to put to an end. countries such as greece abstained; they didn't support the compromise. greece has always supported the 48-hour fixed position and would not want any change in the organisation of working time without dialogue and agreement between employers and workers. we would not like to see either the employers' or the workers' demonstration tomorrow, as my colleagues have argued. we would like to see social dialogue, collective bargaining. a colleague of mine mentioned the middle ages. in the middle ages, however, the sunday holiday was respected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why there are two amendments and i would ask my colleagues to support them, so that this element of european culture can be included in parliament's proposal, and i hope that it will be supported by all my colleagues, who i see are using their idle time and are paid for normal time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european works councils are the pioneers of a social europe. they are activating social dialogue between management and workers in more than 820 enterprises. they enable almost 15 million workers to be informed and consulted, not only at local, but also at european and even global level. they make it possible to better link economic and social aspects in companies with a pan-european reach. we can be proud of what has been achieved since the adoption of the directive 15 years ago. but this old directive is no longer sufficient and we now have legitimate expectations. in july, the commission therefore proposed a thorough renewal of the legal framework for european works councils. the aim is to increase their number and effectiveness, to strengthen legal certainty and to better coordinate consultation at national and european level, in particular on restructuring. the commission therefore proposed to clarify the concepts of 'informing workers' and 'consulting workers' and to clarify the coordination of these activities at different levels. it also proposed that the role of the social partners be recognised in the establishment of new european works councils and that continuity and adaptation of existing works councils be allowed. it proposed that the possibilities for coordination and consultation of the councils, which were set up automatically, be specified. lastly, it proposed that the role of the members of the european works councils be clarified, in particular as regards the provision of information to workers and their access to training. at the invitation of the french presidency, the european social partners, employers and trade unions drew up a joint opinion this summer, accepting the commission's proposal as a basis for discussion. they made a number of amendments to this proposal, in particular to clarify the definitions of 'information' and 'consultation' and to provide for a two-year period during which new european works councils may be set up or renewed without the need to apply new rules. the commission has always supported negotiations between the social partners and has therefore welcomed this initiative. the commission welcomes the constructive approach of the parliament and the council, which has led to a reliable and balanced solution on the basis of the package drawn up on the basis of a commission proposal and the joint opinion of the social partners. the commission actively cooperated with both of these authorities in seeking a solution. the compromise reached by parliament and the council clarifies the transnational competences of the european councils and sanctions and does not introduce a minimum number of staff represented. this compromise preserves the substance of the commission's proposal. the commission can therefore support this compromise.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a proposal for a directive which directly concerns 880 european companies and 15 million european employees. the issue is therefore a major one and we must all approach this debate with a clear sense of responsibility. as you know, the proposal for a directive we are discussing this evening is a revision of the 1994 directive on the european works council. the text which is being presented to the european parliament is the result of collective work involving all the relevant actors at european level. i am thinking of course of the commission, which presented a proposal for a revision on 2 july 2008; i also think of the european social partners who, as early as the summer of 2008, submitted eight joint proposals in the framework of a joint joint opinion; i am thinking of course of the european parliament and the rapporteur it has appointed on this text, mr philip bushill-matthews, whom i thank for the quality of his work. all of them worked with the council presidency to reach a text acceptable to all quickly. as a result of these collective efforts, we are in a position tonight to adopt, at first reading, the proposal to revise the 1994 directive. as far as i know, this has not happened in the social sphere for a long time. it is an encouragement for the future, to continue working together in a collective spirit. the text presented to you tonight is a balanced compromise which will strengthen the social dialogue within european enterprises and provide new guarantees for workers in the 27 member states. with this text we are strengthening the prerogatives of the european works councils, in particular by adopting a new definition of consultation and information which has been awaited for a long time. with this text we are encouraging the creation of new european works councils, since we are opening up, as was done in 1994, a two-year window of opportunity during which agreements may derogate from the new provisions of the directive. finally, with this text we are improving the legal security of workers and companies by removing uncertainties which could have serious consequences. it is also with this aim of legal certainty that the text before you is securing the agreements concluded during the previous period of opportunity between 1994 and 1996, after the entry into force of the present directive. today the compromise reached by all the parties concerned is being put to the vote in the european parliament and it is important that this vote be a positive one. this is important because the current crisis puts companies at greater risk of restructuring and, in this situation, european workers expect us to provide them with additional guarantees, guarantees that will reassure them about their future. it is also important that this vote is positive because european citizens need strong signals that social europe is restarting in this year 2008 and that it is not a matter of speeches, but of concrete achievements that bring the most to their daily lives. finally, it is important that this vote be a positive one, because the social dialogue must be encouraged in europe and this requires the setting up of new works councils and the promotion of the joint approaches undertaken by all the european social partners, as was the case in this dossier.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the compromise reached by businesseurope with the trade unions is behind what the european parliament called for in 2001. the process of reformulation also limits the role of parliament. we will table amendments which support and promote the demands made by the trade unions in the negotiations, namely better, timely and substantive information, publicity and transparency in the agreements and increased participation of trade union experts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the directive is not being implemented in a uniform manner.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very good work on such a difficult and sensitive subject as the safety of games. mrs thyssen worked very methodically in discussions with the council and the french presidency and also in our committee on the internal market, and accepted a number of compromises in order to produce a final text that promotes the safety of toys, while ensuring a balance between consumer protection and the viability of toy-producing businesses. the 1988 directive may have met expectations and ensured a high level of safety in toys for twenty years, but there was an urgent need to revise and modernise it, as new types of toys, new materials and production plants, located in countries outside the european union, are now on the market. the main aim was to protect children as much as possible and to provide parents with increased assurances that the toys they buy for their children will be covered by high safety standards, as well as tougher penalties for manufacturers who fail to comply with these requirements. i think we have made progress on a number of issues. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union, and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. in conclusion, i would like to point out that the responsibilities in the field of toy safety are many, and that is why importers and distributors should ensure that the standards are met. i believe that all the interested parties with the control mechanisms at their disposal, and in particular consumer organisations, will be closely monitoring the implementation of the new directive. today is a big step! i am sure that more will follow in the future.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new financial management rules, as laid down in general regulation 1083 of 2006, include provisions on the financial contribution from the funds, and in particular those relating to revenue-generating projects (article 55), projects which, with their clear risk of over-financing, require special treatment in order to allow revenue to be taken into account in the calculation of the largest amount of community funding. it is therefore necessary to define a method for calculating the revenue from these projects. in the previous period 2000-2006, this principle was applied in practice by a flat-rate method. the new programming period, in accordance with the commission proposal, which was accepted by the council, applies a more precise and rigorous approach to the calculation of community funding for revenue-generating projects. the new approach is based on the calculation of the maximum eligible expenditure, rather than a flat-rate reduction in the co-financing rate. according to article 55, for the period 2007-2013, a revenue-generating project is any transaction involving investment in infrastructure the use of which is subject to charges directly borne by users or any transaction involving the sale or lease of land or buildings or any other provision of services for remuneration. an important difference of the new period is that, according to the definition in the paragraph, the provisions of article 55 apply to a wide range of projects considered to generate revenue and not only to infrastructure investment projects generating significant net revenue, such as the period 2000-2006. the results of an informal consultation of the european commission with the member states have shown that the provisions of article 55 are inappropriate for projects co-financed by the european social fund, which mainly finances intangible operations rather than infrastructure projects. the same applies to small projects co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. for these projects, the monitoring rules to be observed, such as the fact that revenues may be taken into account even three years after the closure of the operational programme, are disproportionately bureaucratic in relation to the amounts expected and constitute a serious risk in the execution of the programmes. for this reason, and after consulting the member states, the commission considered it necessary to adopt an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1083/2006, which should be limited to article 55 (5) and concern only the following two points: the exclusion from the provisions of article 55 of operations co-financed by the european social fund and the establishment of a threshold of eur 1 million below which projects from the erdf or the cohesion fund will be excluded from the provisions of article 55 as regards the calculation of the maximum eligible expenditure and as regards monitoring. the other provisions of article 55 shall not be amended. moreover, since it is important to ensure that common rules for the implementation of projects are applied throughout the programming period, a retroactive clause has been included so that the revised provision will apply from 1 august 2006. this technical amendment will simplify the management of revenue-generating projects as much as possible by reducing the administrative burden in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
member of the commission. - thank you for the debate. i think the arguments in favour of the motion have come from a number of voices. i have nothing to add to it. there was just one question, which was, how, by what method, was 1 million determined. so let me touch on that very briefly. firstly, it was the experience of previous periods, secondly, it was a rather difficult attempt to simplify the system without upsetting its overall balance, i.e. a certain limit was offered, and at the same time the commission also carried out a study which addressed these issues. on the basis of those considerations, and also on the basis of the recommendation of the structural action working party of 3 july 2008, the commission has set this amount in the proposal, which, as i have heard the debate, is generally considered acceptable.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the financial crisis, simplification of procedures and flexibility of mechanisms are very important. cohesion policy has an important role to play. the amendment of article 55 is a good example of best practice in cooperation between the institutions of the european union. i would therefore like to thank commissioner hübner and the president of the european parliament in particular for adopting the proposal for a vote by the end of the year. a colleague said it was a christmas present. simplification will work for the european citizen and tonight we are sending a message that we can amend some regulations in favour of the european citizen. such direct modification practices should be used in the future as bureaucratic procedures are proving difficult to implement. i am confident that the new provision will certainly contribute to a better implementation of the priorities of cohesion policy.
in writing. employee participation in works councils is used by the employer to control the activities of employees in the workplace. the european works council and corporate responsibility are the vehicles for consolidating social partnership and manipulating the labour movement. we therefore oppose the eu proposal to revise the directive on the european works council.
in writing. the proposal for a directive to facilitate the transport of military products within the eu by simplifying the authorisation procedures for such transport by the member states is part of the general drive to militarize the union in order to serve its aggressive anti-people plans. the aim of this proposal and the accompanying report is to further reduce the ability of the member states to formulate an autonomous defence policy, to strengthen the large military industries of the union so that, by reducing administrative barriers to the circulation and sale of their products, they can dominate the european union even more and become more competitive on the world market, displacing their small and mediumsized enterprises, as the report itself points out. this proposal once again highlights the real pro-war character of the eu, the necessity of breaking with its politics and its anti-people structure as a whole, beyond the struggle to establish popular power, so that our country determines the type and sources of its armaments exclusively in accordance with the real needs of its defence and not on the basis of the eu and nato's aggressive plans and the interests of the large european or american arms industries.
mr. farage, what you said will be recorded.
the explanations have been given and we move on to the next item on the agenda.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on climate change and energy.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, group chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i come back to you a few weeks - very few weeks - after our last exchange and after, in particular, an important moment, when a confidence pact was concluded between parliament and the council, under the watchful eye of the commission, to try to find, by unanimity, as president sarkozy said this morning, a set of arrangements that will make it possible to commit the economies of 27 countries to a sustainable economy, to reduce co2 emissions, to prepare copenhagen, to improve and prepare the competitiveness of our economies for the coming century. i come back to you after a european council which took a unanimous decision, feeling that we have not betrayed the pact of trust which was sealed between us thanks to the various trilogues, very numerous, somewhat unique in history. i am talking about the trilogue last weekend on a number of directives. there is no gap if copenhagen is a success. there is an assessment if copenhagen is not a success, that is to say if only europe is involved. the efforts required of industry go as far as the best competitiveness of the most environmentally efficient technologies. the second assessment concerns solidarity and the third concerns energy. energy and energy allocations are one of the big pillars of this package, along with renewable energy, automobiles, etc. on this subject, i think that in our soul and in our conscience, we can all accept that there is a transition period for the economies that have the most coal, when we know how socially complicated these transitions are. we who have experienced them in a number of our countries - in belgium, in nord-pas-de-calais, in france - know that they are complex. nothing has changed on the essentials. there is a transition period, and this transition period is financed by an improvement in solidarity. the only real discussion in the council last week was not about what i read or hear here and there, but about the fact that 2% of solidarity was allocated strictly and directly to the countries that have recently joined the union, that is to say to those which are being asked to make the biggest energy transition. it is this aspect of solidarity that has been most striking. the rest of the texts have been submitted for a long time, thanks to the work of the various committees and rapporteurs. the text on fuel quality is more ambitious than the commission's. on renewable energy, it is broadly in line with the commission's. he is almost identical in the division of labour. it is a little bit more stringent in the long term on co2 emissions from cars. finally, the overall balance of the package as proposed and the ambitions set at the march european council are fully respected. we are in a period of global discussion. the europe group, the continent of europe, or at least the union, is the first world organization to set up a system of clearly quantified objectives, of implementing procedures, of the capacity to assess, year after year, sector after sector, directive after directive, the reality of its developments, in compliance with the application of our directives, that is to say, under the control of the commission on the one hand and the court of justice on the other. i believe that we are in a pattern of profound, measurable, compelling changes in line with our goals and ambitions. i think that, thanks to the trilogue, the point we reached last week in the council is in line with europe's ambitions. it will be up to europe to lead the copenhagen debate, to prepare for it now, under the authority of the commission on the one hand, the czech republic and sweden on the other, and with the host country of denmark for this great conference, this great meeting of humanity. that is what i wanted to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, in the introduction, by saying that parliament's work has been a decisive asset, not, as i have heard, as a means of exerting pressure on governments, but simply for its general quality. finally, you have seen that, for example, on the ccs, which mr davies is fond of, the council has moved in the last few hours to try to get as close as possible to the wishes that had been expressed. here's the work that's been done. there are these six texts which are being debated. we are, of course, at your disposal to provide any necessary clarification.
member of the commission. − madam president, today and tomorrow are one of those very rare occasions when politicians can write history. the energy and climate package that you are going to vote on tomorrow is a landmark package of legislation which is significant not only for the european union, but for the international efforts to address climate change, and will have consequences within the european union and internationally. i would like to thank the french presidency for its dedication and the work it has done to reach a compromise, but mainly i would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the european parliament for the work it has done all this time, to all the political groups and to the rapporteurs. everybody has contributed constructively in bringing the compromise to the level where a vote tomorrow will be promising. i think that although a lot of concerns were expressed – there were a lot of proposals, and many of these were taken on board – and everybody is a little bit dissatisfied, this does not mean that the package is not equitable and is not ambitious. it is ambitious, equitable, fair, and it is going to deliver the environmental objective we have set by reducing by 20% the greenhouse emissions in the european union by 2020. so the architecture of the package remains as it was in our proposal and the environmental integrity of the package has been fully preserved and also the fair distribution of the efforts amongst the various parties. the package before you contains a set of measures which is the most ambitious in the world. only recently some voices around the world have claimed they would imitate our package, and this is very encouraging. the european union is leading the world as regards climate change and, by adopting this package through your vote tomorrow, we shall confirm our international role in leading the world in addressing climate change, and at the same time we shall ensure that the benefits to our countries from the early move to a low-carbon economy will indeed come. the european union is the first region in the world that has reduced emissions. we are going to deliver on our kyoto protocol targets, both as the eu-15 and as the eu-27, we are going to achieve the 8% reduction target; indeed, due to the efforts of the new member states, as the eu-27 we are even going to overshoot the 8% reduction target. we are the only region in the world where there is an emissions trading system that works well and where we have put a price on carbon. the european union is the region in the world investing most in the developing countries, in clean development projects, which are useful not only because we get credit for the investments made in those countries, but also because we reduce global greenhouse emissions and because we help in transferring technology in those developing countries, investing there and creating jobs. the european union is the region of the world that invests most heavily in research, and by our package and by the provision that mr borloo referred to previously of investing the proceeds from auctioning 300 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by 2015, which could be about eur 9 billion, we are going to invest even more in research. the european union is also the only region in the world that will have set a 20% unilateral target by adopting this package tomorrow, and our leaders have reconfirmed our 30% reduction, which is necessary in order to effectively fight climate change (according to the most recent scientific information, even this 30% will perhaps not be enough). by adopting this package tomorrow we will have made not just a step forward, but a leap forward in fighting climate change and also setting the example for other countries, other regions of the world to follow us. some have already done so. yesterday, australia announced a package to fight climate change. it is not as ambitious as ours but still very important. it has set a unilateral target, it is introducing a cap-and-trade system and it is very ambitious about the medium- and long-term targets. it has underlined its willingness to work together with us in reaching an international agreement in copenhagen. everybody now knows what president-elect obama has set as priorities – energy security, climate change – and he repeated this again yesterday. the european union is leading by producing various papers and studies, which will be very useful in our negotiations next year. it was apparent in poznań last week that the countries of the world are determined to work hard next year in order to secure an ambitious international agreement in copenhagen and the european union will contribute to this objective by producing papers on how this agreement should be, what the basic elements should be, what the structure should be and also how we can finance this agreement. when we were discussing this package, various concerns were expressed: concerns about carbon leakage, which is whether carbon-intensive industries, because of the emissions trading system and mainly because of the auctioning, will move to countries without carbon restraints and will continue emitting carbon dioxide in those countries which do not have any limitations (which will also be detrimental to the european union because we shall lose jobs). concerns were expressed by some member states which rely heavily on coal regarding auctioning in the power sector and some other countries expressed their concern regarding flexibility in the effort-sharing proposal. by the compromise reached all those concerns will be taken care of. for industry, long-term predictability has been assured and free allowances will be given and the competitiveness question will be taken care of. at the same time, it should be stressed that these industries will still make their fair contribution to reducing emissions in the european union because they are not only subject to the cap in the emissions trading system, but also they have to comply with the benchmark of best available technologies. so, even these industries are going to make reductions. let me turn to auctioning in the energy sector, because i have heard a lot of complaints and dissatisfaction that we have allowed some member states an opt-out regarding this sector. firstly, it should be underlined that this is an option for the member states because they were very concerned about the social impact of our proposal. we should listen to those concerns, and we did listen. however, in my opinion, when the time comes they will not use this opt-out for the simple reason – especially for those countries in which the energy sector is privately owned and prices are unregulated – that they will have the dilemma of whether to give the money to the finance ministry – to the state – to be used for good causes or to permit the private sector to make windfall profits, profits without any reason. this is something we shall see; it could become a political question in the future. so, i would say to those who object to our agreement on this particular point that they have the possibility in their own countries to persuade their governments not to exercise this option when the time comes. at the same time, if those member states consider that it is important for social or other reasons to use this opt-out, they are able to do so. concerning flexibility on the cdms and the effort-sharing there: firstly, there are many numbers floating around at the moment as to how much of the effort of reducing emissions will be done domestically and how much will be permitted to be done abroad. i should underline that all these comparisons refer to 2005. the actual reductions which should be carried out domestically are much larger, because they should be compared to 2020 and to the business as usual. the actual reductions will be much larger in the european union. i have asked my services to provide me with an analysis and for the total effort-sharing and ets the efforts within the european union will be about 60%; 41% could be abroad, in developing countries. let us not forget that we need investment in developing countries. this is one of those issues that are being brought up all the time by our international partners and also here in the european union by all those who are interested in transferring technology and making investments and reducing carbon dioxide emissions in developing countries. why is it bad? we must have a balance, because otherwise, if we make too much effort abroad and not domestically, it would mean that all the benefits for our business and industry in the european union would be lost, because our package is not only about fighting climate change but also about creating a more efficient economy. we are going to provide the incentives to make our business and industry more resource- and energy-efficient, and an energy-efficient, resource-efficient business means an economically efficient business – a more competitive business – which, in turn, means innovation in the european union. so we do need more effort in the european union. this is something that we should try to do. again, for all those who are complaining about this point of compromise, there is a great possibility: go to your countries and ask the governments of austria, sweden, denmark, finland and the other countries – there are 12 of them listed – which have asked for this one additional per cent, and tell them not to use the cdms that are permitted under this compromise. it is up to you. do it there, not here. here you should vote for the package. the package comes together: it is not one proposal here and one proposal there; one affects the other. so, do not make the mistake. if you have objections, do it in your countries, do it in the countries that have this possibility to get the one per cent additional cdm. i am not going to speak about the fourth concern, which was solidarity. mr borloo gave the answer and the solution reached by the french presidency was very wise. i do not want to take up any more time, because i have already spoken too much. what is important now is to look forward. we should look to copenhagen. we have a year of tough negotiations ahead of us. let us work together again – the european parliament, the council and the commission – in order to persuade our international partners to reach an agreement in copenhagen. thirty per cent is the minimum that we have to agree in copenhagen in order to fight climate change effectively. we should start working now. at the same time, we have to continue to take care of our industries. coming back to the question of carbon liquids, this is not only a question of preserving our jobs, employment and competitiveness, but also an environmental question. i do not want to see companies reallocating and emitting in countries without carbon constraints. so it is an environmental, a social and an economic issue, and our compromise balances all those issues: the social issues, the economic issues and the environmental issues. i think that we should continue on this path. in implementing this package, we should also continue our cooperation, of course with the council, of course with the european parliament, but also let us bring the social partners into this discussion. we should work together because this is very important for europe; it is very important for the world. (applause)
member of the commission. − madam president, the proposals that we will be discussing today make a revolutionary change in the way we produce and consume energy. fewer co2 emissions also mean more energy efficiency and more sustainable energy sources. market-friendly ets will be the main driving force of change in technology in the years to come. co2 targets in non-ets sectors are in reality binding energy-efficiency targets in member states. the directive on ccs, actually on co2 geological storage, means that none of the energy sources will be discriminated against as long as they correspond to the interests of society. limits for co2 emissions from cars will actually limit our growing dependency on oil. twenty per cent of renewable energy in 2020 in final energy consumption means that we will be able to say that we have new energy sources – not only in electricity, but also in heating and cooling and in transport. we should never forget the energy challenge that we face. the international energy agency has been saying for four years that we are on a potentially unsustainable path in the energy sector economically, globally, environmentally and socially. this stems from the risky supply/demand balance. on the price level, we should not be misled by the oil price that we have today, which is due to the economic downturn; we should always remember where the oil price was only a couple of months ago. the most important thing to come out of the last report concerns the movement of wealth. if wealth leaves the european union, so also do jobs. so it very important to see that the global environment is so challenging in the energy sector that we must respond to it. for the eu this is a particular challenge because our import dependency, if no measures are taken, will grow from 50% to 70%. for oil and gas it will be close to 90% or even 100%. this means that we will face a challenge of security of supply and, very clearly, job losses. the proposed package means a profound change that will make our import dependency still reasonable, around 50% in 2030, and brings to the european union competitive advanced technologies for the production or consumption of energy. it will also make it possible for us to help the sustainable development of the world. we cannot imagine, with the volatility of hydrocarbons that we have today, good and healthy development in today’s poorest regions. this is the only change that is possible. i believe that the measures to be taken are difficult. it is not simple to make a change in the energy sector, and it always takes many years. but we do not have any choice because we are strengthened, not only by the anticipation of the political leaders, but also by basing our proposal on scientific evidence and on the evidence of the global institutions that monitor our situation in global oil markets. i would like to thank parliament, the rapporteurs in particular, and the french presidency, which through very difficult negotiations did not diminish our ambition but improved our proposal so that it is more balanced and stronger. i believe that we can be proud of the results that we have achieved in the form of the trialogue. so again i would like to thank the rapporteurs, who really did a huge job in putting forward parliament’s opinion and getting the agreement of the presidency, with the help of the commission, on the most ambitious set of proposals, which will revolutionise the energy sector.
thank you, commissioner.
the next item is the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (com (2008) 0019 - c6-0046/2008 - 2008/0016 (cod)) (a6-0369/2008).
mr president, commissioners, mr president of the european council, the package of proposals on energy and climate which we are discussing today does not exactly reflect the ambitious objectives which the european commission presented a year ago at the request of the european council, and in many respects it lags behind the reports of the relevant committees of parliament. the proposals of parliament, and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hassi, and all those who have contributed to them, have been realistic, conciliatory and at the same time ambitious, reflecting the european union's commitment to maintain and strengthen its leading role in the global effort to tackle climate change. the balance is not the same in the proposals we are discussing today, because compromise has limited the ambition that all citizens of the european union desperately need. as regards the clean development mechanisms, the fact that it allows member states to offset most of the reductions they are called upon to implement through credit projects in third countries risks sending the wrong message in the run-up to copenhagen.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of atmospheric pollution is a very good one. the socialist group worked on the negotiations and succeeded in improving and adding to the council's proposals. our aim is to have a coherent legislative framework for the environmentally safe use of ccs technology, so that there are no negative impacts on human health and the environment. our main political priority must be and remains to increase energy efficiency and to strengthen renewable energy sources. the agreement we have reached is a mediumterm option. i call on you colleagues to support her! the main points of the agreement are the commitment that the first revision of the directive will consider the imposition of carbon dioxide emission limits on all new power stations; the establishment of a financial mechanism for the costs of monitoring and of repairing any damage; the mandatory opinion of the european commission on storage permits; analysis and assessment of the risk to the purity of the current; reinforcing requirements for monitoring storage sites, reporting and remediation of potential leaks; finally, the creation of a clear framework for the responsibility of operators in the operation of the site until the transfer of responsibility to the national authorities. so we put our hand on athens!
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that the absence of the french government representative today shows another aspect of a presidency which is also warmly congratulated on its political successes. this other aspect of the presidency, which does not play the collective game, also cuts across the reaction of our committee and the rapporteur, mrs haug, who, on the contrary, played the budget game very collectively. the budget we are discussing today and which will be voted on tomorrow is a success, but there are three major problems. the success is certainly that we managed at the last minute to put much needed food aid into the budget, which shows that europe understands the problems of the time. there are three big problems: firstly, this budget, in a time of economic crisis, which i remember did not start in september 2008 as many said but we have seen the signs for a year, does not respond at all to the difficulties of the circumstances; he's cut off from reality. we have very low commitments and commitments that are not even certain to be implemented. the second (mentioned by several) is the problem that has arisen with the structural funds. it is unbelievable that so much money is being returned from the structural funds from last year's budget and nothing is being done to ensure that at least next time we will make it! the whole system needs reform. the third is the doubts we have about the financial aid programme, the famous 200 billion, of which 30 billion is from the community budget. unfortunately, there is no indication that this money will be found, and it must be found, because we need it.
mr president, this budget is the last for the current parliamentary term and it is the first budget we have voted on since the economic crisis hit our doorstep. so it has a special semantics. it is a budget that the citizens will see firsthand. i personally find this budget a bittersweet taste, because it has its successes but also its shadows. i am sure that the successes i personally count as being that we have managed to increase payments even marginally in relation to the council's position, that we have found relatively more resources for competitiveness, the environment and security, that for the first time we have a distinct label for tackling illegal immigration at the southern borders of the european union, where countries like mine receive every year a hundred thousand desperate people who knock on europe's door through the southern borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am very disappointed, however, that this first budget of the crisis has not been able to send a message that europe is both willing and able. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a lost opportunity! for this year i think we could do more. i still have some hope that the usual suspects in the council, who like to return surpluses to national ministries, will make an extra effort so that next year at least we have a more ambitious approach.
in writing. the eu boasts of its leading role in environmental protection, but in reality it is claiming a leading role in protecting the interests of capital. the decisions of the summit and the package of directives of the council and the commission on the reduction of emissions promote the so-called green economy as a way out of the over-accumulation of capital and the crisis, opening up new prospects for profitability for monopolies and strengthening imperialist expansion. they are reinforcing the polluting market, which has been shown to multiply monopoly profits without protecting the environment. they allow the car industry to take no measures until at least 2019. they exclude undertakings affected by international competition from the regulation of energy production and more. the new member states and italy have also been excluded for a long time. they provide incentives to replace food crops with fuel crops. the pollution rights are given to the big companies for free. any revenue not required to be used for environmental projects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the eu's attempt to lead the global effort against climate change has been undermined by pressure from the industrial lobby and conservative governments. the famous 20-20-20 is a necessary first step, but the targets it sets are not ambitious enough. the possibility for european countries to buy a large part of their pollution units from developing countries cynically transfers the historical responsibility of the western world to the poorest inhabitants of the planet. it seems that governments do not really understand the urgency of the situation. the euro left group will not lay down its arms. we share the concerns of environmental ngos and will continue to push for more ambitious targets on greenhouse gas emissions reductions, substantial support for renewable energy production and the binding long-term plan for further emission reductions after copenhagen.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the eu must remain a reliable partner in the global negotiations without shifting the burden of emissions reduction efforts to the developing world.
in writing. pasok supports, inter alia, the content of amendment no 50 in order to ensure that the long-term target of 95 g co2/km becomes legally binding from 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, it is certainly useful to discuss international human rights. i therefore feel obliged to commend the author of the report, mr catania, for his sensitivity and his commitment to the protection of human rights in europe. i take this opportunity to intervene and to call parliament's attention to a new element, which is no longer about minorities, human rights violations in the world, economic or political refugees, european subgroups, religious minorities, homosexuals, etc. it is about europeans themselves who, because of the turmoil that is expected due to the international economic crisis, will be divided into categories that will need the protection of their human rights. i am afraid that we will be faced with the degradation of groups of the european population by unemployment and the limitation of social protection, groups which may lead to mobilization and reaction, and which may endanger the economic and political economies throughout the european continent. these groups should immediately benefit from the direct provision and protection of human rights in the european union. the recent tragic events in greece certainly concern europe, which this time does not have the luxury of the past to deal with the rights of foreigners and minorities, but is obliged to intervene in the major problems of european citizens who are in danger of being worse off in terms of rights than those who are hosted within the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
mr. president, one thing is certain: the global economic crisis will increase the waves of migrants to europe and will throw thousands of legal immigrants already living among us out of work. the risk of increasing xenophobia and racism and the threat to the social cohesion of european countries is therefore very great. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. serious policies for the integration of migrants in europe are needed; european policies; and policies that make both immigrants and their children no longer feel like strangers or make others no longer see them as strangers in our society. but that debate in europe has now come to an end! it was held in thessaloniki at the council, it was held in groningen in 2004 and it no longer exists. the reason for me is very simple: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union, and the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will answer very briefly. i fully agree with the energy council of 8 and 9 december, to which reference was made, that the renewable energy directive was adopted and i believe that this is also a step in the direction indicated by the honourable member. i fully agree with both your proposal and your priorities in this area.
member of the commission. − i should like to thank marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou not only for her question but also for her commitment to better and more cooperation in education. on this specific issue i can say that the lifelong learning programme is not only a good name but a very strong instrument and the main instrument for making an education-related source of financing available to the commission. the promotion of language learning and linguistic diversity is part of the specific objectives of the entire programme. one strand of the programme, called comenius, supports transnational projects aimed at addressing the specific needs of children with a migrant background, including a linguistic component or language teaching. the so-called languages key activity within comenius supports the teaching of any world language, including official eu languages. the ict key activity – another part of comenius – also supports projects developing innovative uses of information and communication technologies applied to language teaching, in particular for special education needs and for the needs of children with a migrant background. the european social fund is the main funding source for special support for the education and training of migrants and other less-privileged population groups. national authorities are mainly responsible for implementation. finally, the european integration fund, which is targeted at newly-arrived third-country nationals, supports integration policies, including in the area of education and language tuition. discussion on the outcome of the public consultation on the green paper on migration and mobility will be concluded by the end of the year. it is open and relevant to all stakeholders and i again invite all who are interested to respond. there are issues associated with the funding instruments for the education of children with a migrant background. these issues will be included in a policy paper responding to the green paper, next year during the czech presidency.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate you on the opening of the consultation! it is an opportunity for me to state publicly that the preservation of the mother tongue of the children of european immigrants is a european asset that must be safeguarded. the commissioner's compatriots from spain in germany and other european countries, when they went as immigrants with the greeks, wanted their children to learn greek and spanish. the new immigrants from the new european countries must also preserve their languages, but so must the second generation, which comes from the old immigrants. the official european languages are a capital for europe; they must have the lead!
member of the commission. - madam president, i can only agree with what has just been said. i'll start with the second question. there is a directive or a regulation of the european community from 1977, that is, for more than 30 years, on the education of the children of migrant workers, so it is a question between the member states - old, new, less old, less new - and the conditions for the education of the next generation. in fact, that directive requires the member states to provide education for such children in the language of the host country, that is to say, in the home official language, while promoting education in the original mother tongue and culture of the country of origin in cooperation with those countries. so in one case, it's an obligation to provide, and in the other, it's a helping hand. in any case, the issue of migrant children is part of this green paper or green report, which means discussion and subsequent possible further steps, recommendations. so we're more in the listening phase and then, if necessary, concrete action, also in the form of legislation, because the education of migrant children is a very important part of adaptation and integration. it is evident that in many cases the problems arise precisely because of the lack or poor quality of the education thus provided. and as regards the first question on teachers and brain drain - first of all, i think it is very important that the union should devote more attention to the issue of the quality of teacher training. the first time was last year, and this is a very important issue because any reform or modernization in education is discussed or implemented, teachers are a central part of that process, they have to be the subject, not the object, and of course, topics like lifelong learning start with teachers. he or she, the teacher, must be first in life if this is to be passed on to the younger generation - coping with many new topics and issues and technology in the learning process is very important. population ageing also affects teachers. many countries in the union face a large incoming teacher shortage or deficit and it is estimated that more than one million teachers will be missing in the next decade, as in several states more than half of the teachers are over 50 years old. i am only saying this in the context of the overall problem, but the brain drain is also linked to how much we value brains, how much we invest in intellectual property, in talent, in the ability to develop gifts at home, and not just leave for a better one, and this is what should be aimed at, for example, by promoting much more quality and accessibility of education, but also the relevance of education, this is what should be aimed at next year, which is declared the european year of creativity and innovation, this is what must be aimed at by a greater effort by the whole union to be attractive for brains, to attract talent, and not to lament the brain drain. and of course it's also the task of individual states to invest in education now, also because of the crisis, because investing in education is crucial, and even for a time like this, it's essential if we are to emerge from the crisis more capable, whether competitive, or more capable of innovation, simply with enhanced human potential. i would simply like to conclude by saying that there can be no serious and credible cooperation in the field of education in the long term unless the issues of teachers, the quality of teacher training and the promotion of their continuing education, not only at the beginning but also during their professional life, are also specifically addressed.
member of the commission. − i think that the white paper is already a very successful contribution by the european union, starting with the commission, and with the very positive reflection from parliament (mr mavrommatis is sitting here as rapporteur on the white paper), and also from member states. i remind you that last week the european council adopted specific conclusions on sport – the first time since the nice council in december 2000 – and i think this is also a reflection of the new situation. actually, in one year a lot has happened and a lot is going on in this area. for example, 38 out of 53 actions foreseen in the so-called action plan named ‘pierre de coubertin’ were either started or were already being implemented, and some of them have been already achieved or concluded: two-thirds of the actions. so it speaks about the appetite and quest for delivery, and i am happy to see that. of course, part of the delivery is from the commission’s side. these satisfactory results have been possible because of commitments on the part of member states, but also that of sports organisations. i think the white paper has also allowed or helped to mainstream sport and sport-related projects in existing eu programmes. sport-related projects have recently received support, for example, from the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the lifelong learning programme, the public health programme, and the youth in action as well as the europe for citizens programmes. progress has been secured in particular areas. i want to mention some of them. physical activity guidelines adopted recently by sports ministers and transferred to health ministers; the fight against doping, a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning and a european credit system for vocational education and training, where sport is one of the first areas used as a pilot area for testing. locally trained players: i remind you that we adopted a decision in may this year on so-called ‘home-grown’ or locally trained players. the study on volunteering in sport: a very important topic. the fight against racism and xenophobia: many actions, also in the european parliament. sport as a tool in the eu’s external relations. a european statistical method for measuring the economic impact of sport. and then, ‘combat discrimination based on nationality’; the impact assessment on players’ agents, which is starting to be implemented; a conference on licensing systems in football. we are preparing for the next semester and the european social dialogue, which, i believe, started on 1 july in paris between partners in professional football – uefa, fifpro, apfl and eca. many abbreviations, but it is about employers and employees, and uefa as the umbrella body in european football. i am happy that this social dialogue started. so, while it is not possible on this occasion to provide a detailed progress report on all the actions referred to above, it can now be reasonably well concluded that a large and representative part of the action plan has already advanced quite considerably in terms of implementation. last but not least, i want to tell you that, at the end of november, we held, organised by the commission, the first european sport forum in biarritz, where people from sport – 300 participants from different associations, federations, but also the commission and member states – met. the meeting was followed by a ministerial conference. i think this was very important as the first such event, but there are a lot of messages for continuity and openness in this area for the next presidencies and the next meeting. so i am happy that this quest for cooperation between stakeholders in the area of sport is now much more visible and fruitful.
member of the commission. − volunteering in sport is, in my view, one of the key issues or activities for the functioning of sport for all, but also for the overall organisation of the sport pyramid or the european model of sport, which means that there must be space and support for volunteering in sport as a very important prerequisite. we promised in the white paper a study on volunteering in sport and the tender for this study has been launched, and therefore actually closed, and the study will start at the beginning of next year 2009. this means that by the end of the year, or early 2010, we can expect results, and it is the social, economic and legal aspects of volunteering in sport that will be part of this analysis to help us prepare recommendations for the next process. i would just like to add that under the youth programme the european voluntary service is growing in volume, volunteering has great support in this house too and there is an idea for organising a european year of volunteering. i think that volunteering is also gaining new importance by becoming a form of non-formal education, and in november we adopted, for the first time in history, the first recommendation on voluntary service for young people in the european union. it is the first legislative act in the field of youth in over 20 years of this cooperation and i am glad that it also strongly links to volunteering in sport. several recent projects by the european union, in particular the commission and parliament, have been aimed at supporting volunteers at international sporting events. so this study will help us prepare for the next steps, but i think there's a lot more room for volunteering, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
i would like to congratulate you once again, madam president, commissioner, on the commission's initiative in bringing the white paper on sport to parliament, and as rapporteur for the european parliament i would like to ask you in addition: as both nicolas sarkozy and josé barroso told us yesterday, the reform treaty will come into force, if ireland approves it, by the end of 2009, so sport is now an active part of the lisbon reform treaty. we heard your program. i would like to concentrate on what the financial line and budget will be next year and the next few years exclusively for sport, if we can calculate it from now on.
member of the commission. - madam president, in our report on the 10 years of the euro - emu 10 - which i have had the opportunity to present to you in this house and in the committee on economic affairs of this parliament, we analyse the evolution of inflation and of the instruments, among others, of monetary policy. we do this carefully so as not to cast the slightest doubt on our respect for the independence of the european central bank, but we can also say that, looking at the inflation results in the euro area from 1999 to 2007, in all of them the average inflation of the euro area at the end of the year, when you can compute what the average figure has been for the whole year, has been slightly above the bank's price stability target, but very close to that target. i think it is therefore fair to say that, as regards the results of the years of the euro and the european central bank's monetary policy, the results are clearly positive, much better than those of many economies now integrated into the euro area when they had their own monetary policy and their own central bank, of course. the last year, 2008, for the reasons i explained in my first answer, has been much more complicated, because it is a year composed of two radically different halves: the first, with a rise in prices, caused by an external inflationary shock, extraordinarily virulent, and the second, a sharp fall as a result of a number of reasons, but mainly because of the economic slowdown and, in our case, because of the recession in which we are unfortunately immersed. in these circumstances it is very easy to criticise a central bank, no matter what its seat is in frankfurt, washington, london or any other capital city in the world, but i believe that the european central bank, throughout this crisis, from august 2007 to today, has shown itself to be a bank with solidity in its analyses, with serenity in its decisions and with good sense in the orientation of its policies. it was the leading bank in the august 2007 response to the subprime crisis. i think that it has acted in a manner consistent with the mandate it has received from the treaty, the council, parliament and the european union in general and i think that it is doing what a bank should do at this moment, which is above all to provide liquidity and prevent the lack of liquidity from creating a credit crunch which can make things even worse. i cannot tell you what the outcome of the european central bank's decisions will be. mr trichet, who is a regular visitor to the house, says this in the words of a central banker, but following the communication from the european central bank for several years now, on the thursday of the first week of each month immediately after the meeting of its governing council, i think that one can see very well not only the decisions it takes, but also, without announcing them in advance, the orientations of the markets and the direction in which it analyses its monetary policy for the coming months.
member of the commission. - mr mitchell, price stability is defined in the treaty as the main mandate. the first mandate of the european central bank is to preserve price stability. once that mandate, that main objective, is achieved, or to the extent that it is achieved, the mandate is for monetary policy to cooperate with the other objectives of economic policy. the bank itself and the other european institutions must adhere to this. what does the bank mean by price stability? i think he defined it very clearly from 2003 - if i remember correctly - as inflation below 2% but very close to 2% in the medium term. for all previous years since 1999 until now, approaching this target of below 2% but close to 2% tended to reduce inflation. next year - if the forecasts are confirmed - price stability may be interpreted as approaching 2% without going over 2% for the first time, because we will probably be living in a situation where not only month-on-month inflation but perhaps the medium-term inflation expectations themselves are below 2%. but the mandate remains the same. the instruments and the way of approaching the objective will be different, of course, but that will still be the objective. the second area of activity or second block of activities of the bank, which is extremely important at the moment - of any central bank, but certainly of the european central bank - is to provide liquidity. i think the bank is doing what it should be doing, but nobody is hiding from it - and the bank says it very clearly - that it provides liquidity in the morning but, normally, before closing the window late in the afternoon, it receives liquidity from financial institutions that have not used that liquidity for their credit functions. and there is a discussion that is open: in the newspapers these days there are statements by the bank's vice-president, mr papademos, and some other officials announcing that the bank is discussing how it should use the necessary instruments to make this provision of liquidity effective and not just a circle that ends in the afternoon by returning the money to the place where the money left in the morning. as regards the second question, on the difference: in some of the countries which are members of the european union and not members of the euro area, inflation is higher than that of the vast majority of the countries in the euro area. if you look at the note distributed by eurostat this morning on inflation at the end of november, you will see that there are a majority of countries in the european union outside the euro area that have an inflation rate higher than the country with the highest inflation in the euro area. so, right now, outside the euro area there is more inflation, largely because outside the euro area there are countries in a process of rapid convergence and where a series of effects of higher intensity in energy use, of greater external dependence on energy that has increased in price or of the 'balassa-samuelson effect', said in technical jargon, leads to greater inflationary pressure. and by sector, inflation is clearly higher in the services sector. despite this fall in year-on-year inflation, which has been very rapid in recent months, you will see that inflation in the services sector has remained virtually constant (2.5-2.6%); inflation in foodstuffs or food processed products or industrial goods has fluctuated much more as a result of the reasons i have mentioned in my reply to mr medina ortega, but the services sector has maintained an inflation rate that is above the price stability objective, which is to remain below 2%. nevertheless, this inflation rate is close to 2%.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr papastamkos' question is about governance in the euro area. i have just spoken about governance in the monetary pillar of economic and monetary union, the european central bank and the european system of central banks. i think it's working, honestly, very well. i think it's a hit. governance in the other pillar, the economic pillar of emu, is working, but it still has a long way to go. the coordination of fiscal and budgetary policies is working and i believe that, so far, since the 2005 revision, the stability and growth pact and the budgetary coordination implicit in the implementation of the pact have worked very well. we are now facing a very big test because, as a result of the economic slowdown and the fiscal stimulus measures, plus the financial support packages, public finances are under extraordinarily strong pressure and the stability and growth pact has to be applied in a very difficult situation. it must be applied with all the flexibility it has, but preserving and respecting the rules of the pact and there will be an important test. there is a second element which is also discussed in our report on the 10 years of economic and monetary union. i believe that beyond the coordination of fiscal and budgetary policies, there is a need to improve the coordination of macroeconomic policies. there are very significant macroeconomic imbalances in some countries, including a country like hungary or a country like latvia, which are currently experiencing severe balance of payments difficulties and require large financial support from us, from the monetary fund. that indicates that there have been accumulated imbalances that, through our coordination system, we have not been able to adjust in time. these are countries outside the economic and monetary union, the third stage of the euro. but even within the euro area there are divergences in current account deficits, in the evolution of unit labour costs, which require coordination, in my view, clearly more effective than we have achieved so far, despite the efforts of the eurogroup to achieve it. i believe that the eurogroup has considerably improved its functioning since its presidency began in january 2005 - a stable presidency - by the prime minister of luxembourg, jean-claude juncker, but there is still a long way to go in the internal coordination of macroeconomic policies or of some structural reforms, beyond budgetary coordination, and there is still a clear way to go in external coordination. i believe that the euro is a currency important enough to us and to the rest of the world that we cannot afford to have the interests, the positions, the priorities of the euro of the euro area countries not represented in a coherent, consistent and integrated way in multilateral forums and institutions.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that he mentioned that economic governance still has a long way to go and that he confirms this asymmetry between a strict monetary construction and a loose, imperfect, inadequate economic governance. i would like to ask the commissioner: in the light of your experience so far and in the light of the recent financial crisis and its development into an economic crisis, if we were to revise the treaty today, what proposals would you make as regards the institutional foundations for the emergence of an economic governance of the european union?
member of the commission. - i think i can answer very quickly, by not repeating some of the elements of my previous answer. my ideas of what needs to be done are reflected in the report on the ten years of economic and monetary union and in the communication, more policy, that the european commission adopted, on my initiative and that we have been debating here in parliament and in the council: better coordination of budgetary and fiscal policies, taking into account not only the short but the medium and long term; a 'so far very fragile' coordination of non-fiscal macroeconomic policies to improve the adjustment capacity of economies within the euro area and to improve the preparation of candidate countries to join the euro area in the coming years, which is still taking place; coordination on the basis of a clear strategy, with explicit priorities and with a single voice outside the euro area; and a governance that is about continuing to improve the functioning of the eurogroup in line with what we have been doing under the presidency of mr juncker since 1 january 2005.
member of the commission. - mr frança, the answer is necessarily short, but the question is very interesting. from the point of view of the legal text, the letter of the treaty, it must be said that the vast majority of the basic legal provisions needed for economic and monetary union to function as we all want it to function have been written since maastricht, since the maastricht treaty, and have been incorporated by the following treaties: today they are incorporated in the treaty of nice, tomorrow they will be incorporated in the treaty of lisbon. there are some further improvements in the lisbon treaty, but the core of what economic and monetary union needs from the treaty point of view is already written since maastricht. but the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, together with decisions to promote european integration, such as those adopted last week by the european council and voted on by you here this morning, create the necessary framework for economic and monetary integration to move forward where it should. the same wording of the treaty says that the progress of economic and monetary union can be greater or lesser, that it can go in the right direction or in the wrong direction. i believe that the treaty of lisbon as a political objective and the political will shown by the leaders and by the member states, by parliament, by the commission to bring the treaty of lisbon forward, despite the difficulties of successive failed referendums, is what the economic and monetary union needs as a political space, as a political arena, as a political environment, to move in the right direction.
member of the commission. - madam president, as the commission has repeatedly pointed out, a rule prohibiting pharmacists established in one member state from accepting a prescription for personal use from a doctor established in another member state goes beyond the necessary arrangements designed to protect public health and is therefore contrary to community law, in particular article 49 of the treaty. consequently, if a medicinal product is authorised in the territory of a member state pursuant to article 6 (1) of directive 2001/83, that member state must ensure that prescriptions issued by authorised persons in other member states may be used in its territory. in accordance with the case law of the european court of justice, any restriction on such recognition must be non-discriminatory, justified and proportionate. furthermore, the commission considers that it would be proportionate for reasons of public health for national legislation to provide that the pharmacist may refuse to execute a prescription if there are legitimate and justified doubts as to the authenticity of the prescription, and to exclude medicinal products for which special medical prescriptions are required as provided for in article 71 (2) of directive 2001/83. as regards article 14 of the proposed directive on the application of patients' rights to crossborder healthcare, this aims to ensure the recognition of prescriptions lawfully issued in another member state within the limits i have mentioned above. the purpose of article 14 (2) is to facilitate the implementation of the recognition of prescriptions issued in another member state by adopting measures to assist pharmacists in executing prescriptions issued in another member state without the slightest doubt as to the authenticity of the prescription or the correct identification of the prescribed medicinal product. the commission cannot give details of the measures to be adopted under article 14 because these measures will naturally be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure in a committee composed of representatives of the member states, so the commission cannot foresee at this stage which measures will be decided by the representatives of the member states. the commission would also point out that article 14 (2) merely refers to measures to ensure the correct identification of prescribed medicinal products and does not provide for any specific solution to achieve this objective. the commission is also aware of the point raised by the honourable member of the european parliament concerning the different policies followed in the various member states as regards the possibility of replacing a medicinal product which is perhaps issued in the original form by another medicinal product which is a generic product, but this issue is being addressed by the member states themselves. the commission cannot force member states to decide whether pharmacists can substitute one medicine for another. this is of course a matter for the member states. i should therefore like to conclude by stating that a prescription issued by a doctor established in another member state provides the same guarantees for patients as a prescription issued by a doctor established in the member state concerned and, in accordance with the judgments of the court of justice of 7 march in schumacher and in commission v germany in 1990, the same applies to medicinal products purchased from pharmacists in other member states.
madam president, first of all i would like to wish the commissioner every success in her efforts to legislate on crossborder healthcare. i want to ask the following question: given that the patient travelling to the member states must always find his medicine, and this is particularly important for patients with chronic conditions such as heart disease, mental illness and other similar illnesses, are you thinking of creating a database of proprietary medicines in circulation in the european union so that the treating physician knows that the patient travelling from the alpha member state to the beta member state will certainly find his medicine? and if so, what do you think?
member of the commission. - madam president, i should like to inform you that the emea, which is, as you know, the european medicines agency, based in london, is currently carrying out a very large project, recording precisely all the medicines authorized in the various member states and which may have the same ingredients, so that a pharmacist who receives a prescription can know which other medicinal product in his member state corresponds to the medicinal product indicated on the prescription, if of course it is marketed under a different name in the various member states. i think this is a very important project. i don't know exactly when it's gonna end, but it's in the works.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would like to point out that the fundamental principle of european union food law is that only safe food is placed on the community market, and all food and feed lawfully placed on the european union market must be safe regardless of its origin. a wide range of measures to ensure food safety and facilitate the withdrawal of unsafe food and feed from the market have been introduced in community legislation. the general food regulation requires traceability in the european union to be compulsory for food businesses at all levels and stages of the food chain, from importers to retailers. with regard in particular to products of animal origin, including products originating in third countries, food hygiene legislation further strengthens the traceability rules for products of animal origin covered by regulation (ec) no 853/2004 through the following requirements: food business operators must have systems and procedures in place to identify the food business operators from whom they have received and to whom they have delivered products of animal origin. these products must also bear a mark of suitability or an identification mark. the commission does not foresee any changes to the traceability rules and the fitness or identification marking for processed food of animal origin. as regards the compulsory indication of the place of origin of all foodstuffs in general, it should be stressed that the indication of the origin of foodstuffs is not a means of ensuring food safety but a tool by which the citizen is informed of the characteristics of each product. however, indication of the place of origin is required in principle in cases where there is a risk of misleading consumers as to the true origin or provenance of foodstuffs, and also in the application of specific rules such as those relating to fruit, vegetables, beef, wine, honey and fish. in such cases, the marking of origin is compulsory. indication of origin is also required for imported poultrymeat and, from 1 july 2010, for pre-packaged food labelled as organic. in such cases, the indication of origin is necessary and obligatory. the commission is aware, of course, that this is a matter which requires further discussion and we know that citizens often ask to know the origin of products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural products are labelled in the community's official language, and that the community's agricultural products are labelled in the official language. the labelling of foodstuffs may of course be voluntary rather than compulsory, but in this case we must follow certain common rules so that all member states comply. the commission proposal on food information covers all ways of supplying food to consumers, including distance selling. the aim is to clarify that in such cases the relevant mandatory information, such as ingredients and allergens in food, should also be given to the buyer during the distance selling; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not affected by the quality of the products.
madam president, i thank the commissioner. but i would like to mention this: the european union is taking all the measures known to protect consumers and the environment in its own area, in agricultural production and the marketing of products. in this context, does the commission intend to take certain measures with regard to products from third countries, so that the same labelling rules apply? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you do not do something about it, the european farmer who is subject to the measures will have financial costs and will sink, and the products coming from third countries will be of questionable quality for the consumer, which means that we do nothing and we weaken europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to start by expressing gratitude and feelings similar to those stated by jan andersson in his introductory comments on the importance of the eqarf recommendation with regard to the very excellent work and cooperation between the institutions. the committees and the commission hope to come to very close first-reading agreement on two important instruments. firstly, i would like to show my appreciation of the work of the committee on employment and social affairs. i would also like to mention the contribution made by ramona mănescu and the committee on culture and education and, on the second item – because we linked together two items – that of the same committees: culture and education, and employment. i should also like to mention dumitru oprea for the contribution of many interesting points which both jan andersson and thomas mann have already highlighted. people and member states have spoken a great deal about the bologna process but now more and more is being said about the importance of skills, vocational education and training and the copenhagen process. this year we had the first euroskills competition, which will help to increase popularity, attractiveness, quality and exchange of best practices in the very important area of vet. i would like to make some remarks on the importance of the two instruments which will be voted in this plenary tomorrow through your reports. on the eqarf recommendation: vocational education and training were overshadowed by reform processes in europe, but if we really want to make our union more competitive and socially cohesive, as outlined in the lisbon strategy, it must be about the importance and quality of both general education and vocational education. the rather technical nature of the first recommendation should not detract from the importance of this instrument. quality assurance underpins every vet policy initiative. it helps to build mutual trust and to modernise vet systems by improving the effectiveness of training. the quality assurance framework is designed to continuously improve vocational education and training. it is based on a quality cycle which establishes links between the four phases: planning, implementation, evaluation and review. it includes ways in which the performance of vet can be monitored and it measures the improvement of vet at both system and provider levels. the approach to quality assurance is reflected in the general principles contained in the annex to the 2007 recommendation on the establishment of the european qualifications framework, so it is already part of the established eqarf. quality, the learning outcomes approach and the qualifications framework go hand in hand. we need these instruments in one mosaic. quality assurance is a precondition for trust between the systems and countries in order to transfer learning outcomes as results. i think the compromises achieved in the process are very important. the commission supports the text as proposed. your contributions improve the text – for example, the new deadline set for designing a national approach, an explicit reference to the involvement of local and regional authorities. in explaining the so-called toolbox nature of the framework, your contribution also helped to clarify the meaning of the original text. on the other instrument, i would just like to say that it is also necessary if we really want to really promote lifelong learning and to facilitate real mobility. as i like to say, we are citizens, not tourists, in one european union. we need this mobility for both learners and for workers so that people can take advantage of the richness offered by different european education and training systems at national or even regional levels. this is only possible if individuals’ learning achievements are adequately appreciated when passing from one learning context to another. this is to be opened much more now by ecvet, the european credit transfer system for vet. the objective of ecvet is twofold: firstly, to support and promote transnational mobility and, secondly, to give access to lifelong learning to respond to the real needs of individuals, the labour market and our societies. i do not want to say any more, but i will just assure you that this instrument is and will be compatible with the other one, the european credit system for general higher education (ects), and with the various qualification systems which already exist in europe. it will be implemented according to the rules and legal instruments of each participating country. mr mann stressed the voluntary participation of the member states. this indicates the diversity of our systems, but also maturity in finding common instruments as a result of our work together and willingness to create conditions for compatibility and transferability between different systems. during this process we could see how a bottom-up approach helped to analyse and form the instruments in both cases. in this connection, i would also like to say that the compromise achieved is acceptable and very important, not only for the conclusion but also for the satisfaction of all sensitivities or concerns, i think it even improves the text. specifically, i appreciate the contribution on a stronger role for national and regional authorities and also on highlighting the importance of a testing period or results during the process of implementation. so the commission supports the proposals and compromise achieved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i am particularly proud to be the first and only one to point out, after the rapporteurs, the great importance for all the people of europe of strengthening the vocational education and training systems, respecting the specific characteristics of education in each member state and coordinating them so that they can be applied in a common framework and used as tools, as the commissioner rightly pointed out and as the rapporteurs have had the opportunity to show us in the committee with their very fine work. we have been able to give a start to young europeans so that they have two paths: the path of higher education, theoretical studies, and the path of practical studies, linked to reality and creation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. i hope that these two directives, which will soon be adopted and become reality, will be used by the authorities of each member state and by the educational establishments, so that we can have results next year, which is the year of creativity and innovation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the legal dimension referred to concerns infringement of intellectual property rights, the budgetary dimension concerns customs duties and vat evasion, which are an important component of the european budget, i.e. the own resources of the european union. the economic dimension of the problem is also clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the most worrying aspect of the problem is the threat to the health and even the lives of consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the creation of a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy and the approval of the 'made in' mark would also be a step in the right direction. however, mr commissioner, although you do not have a relevant portfolio, i would like to say the following to you and to remind the honourable members: the quantitative restrictions on imports of textile clothing have been abolished. in my constituency, when i was a member of the greek parliament, factories were closed and thousands of workers were unemployed. there was no customs cooperation with importing countries; the commission itself admitted this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's your fault! the commission's failure to act! we have reviewed the sugar regime, and those who have become rich are multinational sugar exporting companies, not poor producers from developing countries, based on official statistics. i am not in favour of a europe closed to the world, commissioner. we are in favour of a europe open to the world but with rules, principles, transparency and a level playing field. the commission has not yet taken any action on the matter, and i am not sure that it will take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the european commission has a leading role in the common external trade policy. you negotiate with third country partners, you shape the terms of cooperation! fortunately, the treaty of lisbon changes the terms of our interinstitutional relationship and the european parliament will be a co-legislator with you, and then the culture of cooperation between the european commission and the european parliament will change. we're expecting her this time!
madam president, a particularly significant number of counterfeit products trafficked via the internet or the legitimate supply chain are counterfeit medicinal products. the health risks to patients who take them unknowingly are obvious. these products are manufactured in factories or laboratories that do not follow the rules of good manufacturing practice and in many cases do not contain any trace of the therapeutic active substance. in a recent statement, president kovács said that in the last two months, checks by customs authorities in european union countries have found more than 34 million tablets of antibiotics, oncology and other falsified medicines. is it not time, commissioner, for the european union to open in china and india, for example, export monitoring offices in line with the fda standards, which opened such offices last month? and you should know that without the mandatory cooperation of the pharmaceutical agencies of these countries there is no way to control the 3,000 pharmaceutical factories in india and the 12,000 factories in china.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, first of all, of course, i listened very carefully to all the speeches. i shall report to my colleague, mr charlie mccreevy, of course, who is in charge of the internal market. i think that parliament has appreciated the seriousness of the phenomenon and its effects, which jacques toubon has called a scourge of economic, social and health concern. it is clear that the european union, while open to trade, cannot accept that trade be conducted in violation of the basic rules of the game and to the detriment of consumers. so we must do something right and i would like to recall a number of things. firstly, and i am responding in particular to mr toubon, the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy will be launched by the commission in spring 2009. the observatory is to provide statistics on counterfeiting and piracy in the internal market. the observatory should identify vulnerable geographical areas and the illicit trafficking of websites selling counterfeit goods. it must also organise administrative cooperation between the member states, organise the exchange of information and, as mr martin said, raise consumer awareness. this is a major task for this observatory. it is true that the criminal provisions were proposed by the commission in 2006, and we have the support of parliament, but at the moment the council is not yet involved in the adoption of the criminal provisions. in this respect, cooperation should not only concern customs but also the police, the judicial authorities and, in general, all those who can intervene in the monitoring and control of such falsification. i would like to say to those who have insisted on the need for indications indicating the origin of products that we have proposed a made in and that this made in has not yet been adopted by the council. the european union must not be afraid of this display, which will allow consumers to make their own judgments and avoid being the victim of practices that are totally contrary to all the rules of the game. i would add that acta cannot be accused of going further than the current eu regime for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, and in particular of violating fundamental freedoms and the protection of personal data. acta remains within the framework of the current regime of the european union. in any case, i thank parliament for its willingness to join the commission in trying to achieve an effective fight against counterfeiting. we take note of this report and we also take note of the european parliament's determination to combat this system effectively. i may not have answered all the questions. there are also products which can be described as similar, and we must also have rules to prevent abuse, which is absolutely reprehensible and detrimental to the consumer. that is what i wanted to say in conclusion, but i want you to know that all the remarks made tonight will be brought to the attention of the commissioners because, again, this is a complex matter which requires the implementation of several commission guidelines and which also requires a full commitment from the council and from parliament.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 18 december 2008.
mr president, e-justice – electronic justice – can we say that such a thing is possible in an activity that is conditioned by human weaknesses and virtues, which are very human characteristics? no! can there be borderless justice? as you said, no, again! because this is a human activity, which is also very different in every part of the world. do those two ‘nos’ mean that we must turn our back on technological innovation? again, of course, no! we must try to exploit human innovation. a portal for information: yes! exchange of data: yes! awareness of the interindependence of the judicial systems: yes! contribution to the creation of a european demos: yes! but for common faceless justice – and i do not say that you are doing that in your report – no! my father, who was a judge, would not be too eager for me to defend electronic justice before the european parliament. if i myself speak from the european parliament to my father, who is in heaven, i can tell him that i know that justice will always be a man, his defender and a judge – not before god but before their conscience.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until now, crossborder trade in aeronautical equipment has been subject to legal uncertainties. the new international legal framework aims to facilitate the provision of financing for the acquisition of aeronautical equipment, i.e. aircraft, engines and parts, by establishing a particularly strong international guarantee in favour of the lenders, i.e. credit dealers or organisations financing the acquisition of the equipment in question. overall, the new legal regime will reduce the cost of financing aviation equipment worldwide and contribute to savings of billions of euros per year in the aviation sector. finally, the positive impact of the most advanced regulatory framework in the history of aviation financial law is not only for financial operators and manufacturers but also for airlines, employees and passengers.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on zimbabwe. i 'm not .
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i thank all the members who have made an urgent appeal for zimbabwe, because zimbabwe is facing a crisis of unprecedented magnitude that is getting worse, not a single sector is spared. at the political level, we are witnessing an increase in violence, as evidenced by reports of arbitrary arrests and the disappearance of human rights activists. the increase in political violence can make any solution to the crisis impossible and push the parties towards irreconcilable positions. the humanitarian situation is deteriorating, as evidenced by the cholera epidemic that is spreading and threatening zimbabwe's neighbouring countries. the economic situation is dire. prices of basic commodities continue to rise. the cost of the average grocery basket has increased by 1,293% in the last week. at the social level, the risks of an explosion are increasing day by day, with the possible negative effect on the stability of the whole region. so what can we do? the needs of zimbabwe are enormous. they are increasing exponentially mainly because of the mismanagement of the current government. the commission is continuing its active involvement in humanitarian matters. a field mission, from 15 to 19 december, is reassessing the humanitarian situation, which will allow us, among other things, to identify very quickly any additional needs. at the political level, the commission - and beyond that the international community as a whole - can only help zimbabwe if it can work closely with a legitimate government with sufficient leeway to adopt the necessary political and economic measures. this requires the implementation of the agreement of 15 september and the establishment of a government of national unity. this also requires increased involvement of the actors in the region and the african union. we are very much looking forward to this involvement in all our contacts with them. i can assure you that the commission, which is following the situation on the ground very closely, is continuing to work with all the member states, the african and international partners, in the search for a just solution that will allow zimbabwe to emerge from the current crisis which you have both strongly denounced. thank you very much for your attention, and it is true that during this holiday season, we cannot forget all those people who are suffering in zimbabwe. they are perhaps among the most distressed people in the world today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on nicaragua. i 'm not .
the commission's vice-president - madam president, the political situation in nicaragua has worsened with the approach of the local elections on 9 november. the numerous appeals for calm from the international community, and in particular from the european union and commission missions, have been ignored. after the vote, the circumstances surrounding the count and the announcement of the results gave rise to a crisis with the main opposition party. the liberal constitutionalist party rejects the results and denounces massive fraud. citizen movements, the church and business associations, the international community have called for the results to be reviewed or for new elections to be held. the political institutions, and in particular the parliament, have also been blocked by the lack of agreement between the two main parties. the reports of our heads of mission on the ground and the report of the electoral experts seconded by the commission have reported violations of electoral laws and international conventions. in agreement with the member states and after consulting other partners, the commission sent a letter to the nicaraguan authorities on 10 december offering its support for any concerted solution between the country's political forces to overcome the crisis and restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. the letter also announced the suspension of disbursements from budget support programmes as from 1 january 2009 and the opening of a period of consultation with the nicaraguan authorities on the current situation and the modalities for reorienting european cooperation with the country. i should also point out that the commission has not withdrawn its 2008 aid to nicaragua €20 million has been distributed, including emergency humanitarian aid and everything that was planned for this year will be paid as long as the conditions inherent in each project are met. the budget support of eur 57 million for 2009 is not withdrawn but suspended. cooperation will be directed towards programmes and activities that ensure that aid reaches the beneficiaries, the nicaraguan people, directly, without going through the government. i would add that the foreign minister, mr samuel santos, in a letter to commissioner ferrero-waldner on 12 december, expressed his disagreement with the measure. it reaffirmed the validity of the results and expressed its readiness for a dialogue on cooperation which the commission intends to launch as soon as possible. finally, in response to one of the speakers, i would say that the commission naturally hopes that the current crisis will be resolved as soon as possible and, in any event, the eu-central america association agreement repeatedly emphasizes the importance attached by the parties to respect for democratic principles and values and good governance. the negotiations on this association agreement will provide an opportunity to deepen the discussion on these principles, including their application in practice. i am able to give you this information, and i know that mrs ferrero-waldner is following the situation very closely with the commission services. i thank you and all the speakers for your kindness in bringing up the situation in nicaragua.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on russia.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, on 5 november, president medvedev, in his first annual address to the federation council, explicitly mentioned the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this symbolic mention, in this year of the anniversary of the universal declaration, is a testimony to the new president's interest in judicial reform and its impact on human rights. the european union will have to follow developments in this area very closely. the reality of the past few weeks has once again reminded us of the great challenges facing human rights defenders in russia. we have listened carefully, of course, to the various speakers, madam president, who have not failed to point out the serious threats to human rights in russia. two years after her death, the murder trial in the case of anna politkovskaya began. it was first open to the public, then held behind closed doors, then reopened to the public. the trial will be closely watched by all those who defend freedom of speech. as the murder of magomed yevloyev in police custody in late august reminded us, journalism in russia is becoming an increasingly dangerous profession. in early december, memorial, one of the oldest and most prestigious ngos working on the painful past of 20th century russia, was raided by police. the result of this search was the confiscation of the historical archives of the gulag. if we really want to continue the work we started last april at the conference on the crimes of totalitarian regimes in europe - a conference which i myself opened - then it goes without saying that historians must have access to the archives. the december 4 raid is a disturbing message to those who believe in the need for debate, and honest debate, about the deep wounds of the past. this debate is necessary to ensure the necessary reconciliations in the future. of course, the consultations between the european union and russian human rights authorities are an opportunity to remind the need to respect the commitments that russia has made in the field of human rights. the commission continues its work in support of civil society initiatives, in particular through the european initiative for democracy and human rights. support for judicial reform is also a priority in our cooperation programmes with russia. i have been in contact with the new judicial officials at the last meeting with russia and i intend to continue a demanding dialogue. the european union and russia are also currently negotiating a new contractual basis to replace the current partnership and cooperation agreement. of course, respect for human rights must be an essential element of this new agreement. the commitments made by the parties in the context of the un, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe or the council of europe must be implemented; the commission remains committed to this. mrs ferrero-waldner asked me to thank you for introducing this debate and confirmed her personal commitment. i would add my own, since i have the opportunity, in the field of security and justice, to be able to hold a dialogue with the moscow authorities. i can say this, madam president: i hope that 2010 will be an opportunity for russian officials to be able to fulfil their commitments better than they have done this year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next partsession. if there are no comments, i shall forward the adopted resolutions to the addressees forthwith. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the president declared the sitting closed at 4.35 p.m.)
