the inlet is one of the most beautiful landscapes in central europe, located on the danube in hungary, in the neighbourhood of slovakia and austria. the natural values, the richness of flora and fauna, the aquatic habitats and the traditional way of life of the people who live here make it one of the last remaining islands of biodiversity. unfortunately, the water supply of the river that feeds the area has been drastically reduced by hydrological interventions in recent decades. it is in the interest not only of the region concerned, but also of hungary and the whole union, that this unique natural value is not lost for future generations. we have good legislation, such as the water framework directive, which would in principle ensure the protection of the area. however, this would require compliance at both national and eu level. it is desirable that slovakia cooperate with hungary in the normalisation of water supply in the area, independently of the great danube issue. i'd love to take you on a spring-water tour of this fantastic landscape, but it would take water. we're looking for the cooperation of all concerned.
in writing. as the people's party shadow rapporteur on the report in the environment committee, i would like to emphasise that the report is not about the car of the 21st century, but about regulating the automotive industry to be competitive in the 21st century. today, the automotive sector is the second largest emitter of co2 and accounts for 12% of total co2 emissions in the union. the dynamics of this process are alarming, as the sector grew by 26% between 1990 and 2004, accounting for 26.5% of total energy consumption in the union. voluntary agreements by car manufacturers to reduce emissions have not worked and eu regulation is powerless to do anything about it, as the automotive sector can only be covered by the ets after 2013, if at all. the only success was that the average consumption of cars sold in 2004 was 12.4% lower than in 1995, almost entirely due to technological innovation, as cars continued to grow in size and power. further efforts are needed from both member states and consumers. on the one hand, in the area of taxation, to help break into the market for fuel-efficient and low-carbon cars, and to support manufacturers in their targeted development. on the other hand, to improve the provision of information to customers, to modernise and extend labelling to light-duty vehicles, to harmonise energy efficiency classes and to indicate annual running costs. finally, by promoting the practice of bull riding and making it a condition for training, awareness campaigns and driving licences.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. i would like to express my deep appreciation to mr and mrs kauppi for the report, which touches on a sensitive and controversial subject of great importance. two comments: firstly, i myself consider it important for the functioning of the internal market that there is no risk that a parent company and a subsidiary are placed at a disadvantage compared to those operating in a single member state simply because they are active in two different member states. i therefore personally call for the elimination of double taxation - as the commissioner has said - including through electronic cooperation mechanisms. in view of the time factor, encourage effective cross-border activity by economic operators, using the method of crediting or discharge. at the same time, i think we have to think about when the subsidiary is profitable and the parent company is losing money. piia-noora kauppi: for example, in the new member states, this is a more interesting situation from our point of view. my other comment, besides the abolition of double taxation, concerns the common consolidated tax base. we're still in the early stages of the debate, but i have reservations: i don't want to be a champion of debt sovereignty, but i don't see the impact of this joint consolidated fund clearly yet. he fears that there will be political pressure to introduce a minimum level, like vat or income tax. this is also shown by the proposal of the socialist and communist, i.e. left-wing, members of parliament, although i believe that the maastricht criteria put a stop to this. but i also have fears about this because i do not know what the impact will be on the new, capital-poor eastern member states in terms of capital flows in the internal market. who's the administration gonna settle with? and will it be possible to maintain the individual tax base benefits to compensate for the infrastructure disadvantage? i shall therefore abstain from these parts, but i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur once again. thank you, mr president.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, colleagues, i am very pleased that a compromise has been reached on this new joint decision-making dossier, which has the support of the political groups in the committee on transport. it may be asked whether this issue should be regulated at all and what the scope of the lower boundaries of [...] of the airports covered by [...] should be. i think we have done well to deal only with those principles which are really necessary to avoid divergent and therefore mutually exclusive practices between member states. i am also glad that only really large, i.e. monopolistic, airports will be subject to regulation. i also consider it a common success that the complaints procedure can only be initiated if a certain threshold is reached. we also set reasonable deadlines for this, thus avoiding endless arguments. i personally feel that we have succeeded in including the possibility of prefinancing in the text, and in preventing its abuse. we have reached a common compromise on the role of the acting regulator and on the independence of the owners. the biggest benefit will be transparency, which, once the price of air tickets has been publicly disclosed, can also help to increase the trust of eu citizens in the eu, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity in terms of implementation. we haven't settled all the issues, but i'm expecting a discussion with the council on a number of issues, like the security fee or whether there should be a one- or two-checkout system. in any case, we have now taken a very firm position, and i hope that this will lead to success in the negotiations with the council. thank you very much, mr. president, and i apologize again for the delay.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regional development committee. - thank you very much, mr president, honourable members. first of all, i'm sorry i'm late, and thank you for letting me speak. the creation of a transparent system for airport charges is of paramount importance, as there is currently no community legislation on this issue. the commission has developed a framework law which sets out how airport charges are to be levied, but which also leaves a certain degree of flexibility to the member states. airports and aviation are of great importance to the european union, as they make a significant contribution to the social and economic cohesion of the european union by connecting regions, creating jobs and attracting businesses. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 28 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. airlines complain that the big airports are acting like a monopoly. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. the fees, which are set differently in each case, should reflect the actual costs of the service or infrastructure used. the differentiation or increase of charges should be based on objective and clear criteria so that airlines and airport users pay justified costs for the same service, at the same price. the consultation mechanism we are introducing is very important because they go to an independent regulator if the airlines are not satisfied with the charges they are charging them. finally, i consider it very important to emphasise that the commission of the european union should prepare a report on the operation of the directive for the european council and the european parliament no later than 4 years after its entry into force, assessing the results achieved in the light of the objectives of the regulation. thank you very much.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the report and of course i welcome the implementation of the rotterdam convention, which is an important international convention on the ban of several dangerous chemicals. the topic is not unknown to me. i worked as the shadow rapporteur of the pse group on the restriction of several chemicals, including the ban of pfos and the export ban on mercury, and now i and my colleagues are working on the restriction of ammonium nitrate and other substances. we had good cooperation on these issues with my colleague mr blokland. we have to understand that a european-level ban is sometimes not enough. for instance, ddt and lindane have been banned in the eu for many years but their presence can still be detected in the blood of our citizens. following the european ban on certain chemicals, it frequently happens that several multinational companies produce and sell the banned chemicals in non-eu countries, especially in the third world. then the banned chemicals easily return in imported products and they are also present as environmental pollutants in oceans, seas, rivers and air. the export ban on mercury, fully supported by this house, showed us the right reaction. the same treatment is needed for other dangerous chemicals as well. i underline the importance of the international chemical conventions – the rotterdam convention, the stockholm convention and the saicm – as only these instruments can lead to an international solution to the problems caused by chemicals.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. before i turn to the minor debates surrounding the amendments, let me say a few words about this legislation and its importance. it is true, as the commissioner has said, that this is a very old piece of legislation, born in 1971, and since then it has traditionally played a prominent role as a supplementary regulatory instrument to the fundamental right of free movement within the union. it is true that the right to free movement of workers enshrined in the treaty would be of little value in itself if citizens in other member states were not able to access social security schemes and if we were unable to ensure the portability of rights. workers exposed to significant risks in the context of intra-union mobility should not be at a disadvantage in terms of social security and fundamental social rights. only then can the free movement of labour fulfil the important balancing role between the eu labour markets that the union economy needs. but we must also see, we must also note, that the regulation 1408, which we are discussing, can only fulfil its function if it is constantly brought into line with national legislation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of employment. that is why it was necessary and it is necessary to constantly amend and supplement the legislation from year to year. it's a key rule, because it seems like we're just reconciling different texts, but it's really about people, about human destinies, about people's everyday problems. we as legislators have a duty to do this, even though we know that this is a text that has been in force for a very short time, because as the commissioner has mentioned, we already have the new regulation, the new directive. until we have an implementing regulation for this, the interests of legal certainty require that we keep updating and adapting the text to changes in national legislation. a good example of this is the first amendment, where the concept of 'close relatives' in hungarian law, the civil code, was amended, and now it was possible to adapt the european text to this. but similarly, the amendments concerning the netherlands, where we are also dealing with very tangible human destinies, soldiers serving abroad, uncertainty about the various social security entitlements for their families. this is clearly unacceptable and needs to be completed. we have, however, found a solution to this problem in the course of the work of the committee, by adopting the oral proposal of the council and incorporating it into the text. so there is no problem here, as i think that the aforementioned amendment no 10 has finally been resolved in a reassuring way, because the dutch government has undertaken to inform the citizens concerned by means of a clarifying circular, so that the adoption of this amendment by parliament is not necessary at this stage. but the cooperation was needed, and i would like to thank all those who took part, both the members who tabled the amendments and the staff of the council and the commission. thank you very much for your time, mr. president.
with the collapse of european borders and the change of lifestyle, there are millions of european citizens who were born in one country, worked in one or more other countries and want to spend their retirement years in another. you pay your social security contributions elsewhere than where you will be claiming them later. the level playing field also requires the harmonisation of social security services. in the longer term, therefore, the creation of a single european social security system, including a pension system, sickness insurance and social security, is inevitable. the hungarian socialist party's working group proposes that this idea be incorporated into the party of european socialists' far-sighted programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is harmonized.
the rapporteur. - thank you for your time, mr president. finally, it is perhaps worthwhile to summarise a question that has been raised in the background of the debate several others have mentioned it, including jean lambert and ms bozkurt. in fact, when i was writing this report, we never argued about the content of the report, we always agreed on that. what we were arguing about was where the competence of european legislation lay and where the competence of national legislation lay. i want to assure you that in this case, we have struck a very delicate balance. so we have spoken to the commission about all the amendments, we have spoken to the council representatives. where the argument eventually developed, where, if in a series of steps, we found the solution. so let this be a lucky or a good example of how we can still work together sometimes if we need to. that we need this is obvious to us, but that european citizens need it too, i think, should not be doubted. i myself have not sought to propose any fundamental changes to the text of the report, precisely because we are awaiting the bozkurt report and the jean lamber report, which relate to the 2003 regulation. so i think the legislation will remain in place for now - maybe we'll have a little bit of a fix on it - and otherwise we'll continue the debate on the drafting of the implementing regulation, and i think that's fine. i would like to thank once again the council, the commission and my colleagues for their cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for your time, mr. president. i am glad that we have reached the adoption of the framework programme for the european agency for fundamental rights and i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, for the willingness to cooperate he has shown in a task that is not easy. it is now important for the institutions, the member states and eu citizens alike that the agency can start its normal work as soon as possible, since it was officially established in vienna on 1 march last year, but still lacks a functioning structure, mandate and management. it is therefore very important that the framework programme is adopted now. we are faced with a complex problem here, where on the one hand we could list a number of human rights issues, fundamental legal issues, and on the other hand we have to consider what makes this agency really functional today. i believe that my colleague, mr cashman, has tried to draw up this opinion in such a way as to satisfy both of the above criteria: to be able to deal flexibly with the human rights problems which affect us all in a sensitive way, while at the same time keeping the institution functioning. i feel that parliament can fully support these proposals and - despite listening carefully to mr frattini as to what is unacceptable to him, to the commission - i very much hope that the council will find understanding for many of our proposals, because these issues, these proposals may be the very keys to the agency being able to do its job in a way that is attentive to real problems. it was left out of the original list and this proposal includes the issue of linguistic minorities, the issue of national minorities, which i consider very important because we are now seeing these problems reappear again and again and the union will indeed have to deal with them. so i'm hoping that this agency will be able to take care of that. we are not dealing with a paper tiger, but with a functioning institution. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, mr. president. it is not a pleasure to talk about the fact that nine months after the inauguration of the fundamental rights agency, the institution could not get started, its leadership had not yet risen. at least this week the multiannual framework programme will receive the approval of parliament, for which i personally thank rapporteur michael cashman. the multiannual framework programme is crucial to the agency's work and to the effectiveness of its monitoring of fundamental rights and the formulation of its tasks. the tripartite process of negotiation that created the founding document left open paths for us to follow. for example, the council statement sought to use the power of policy to ensure that the agency, at the request of the agency, could also examine the enforcement of human rights in the field of police and judicial cooperation. it is important that the member states and the union institutions continue to make use of the powers conferred on them for as long as the agency is clearly vested with the task after the entry into force of the reform treaty. it is also our common responsibility to ensure that the individual and community rights of national and ethnic minorities are not only guaranteed by the prohibition of discrimination but also by the positive requirements of law enforcement. the recognition of social rights as human rights is not in principle open to debate, since there is no human dignity without basic security. it's public, but it's true that every decision is worth as much as the amount of time it takes to make it happen. the words of vice president frattini are a little uncertain, but i hope that the agency will be strictly consistent in the protection of human rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for your time, mr. president. i think there are very few of us who would not be directly or indirectly affected if the protection of children's rights were the issue. the community institutions have already dealt with various aspects of this issue on several occasions, but i agree with the committee that, in addition to all this, a comprehensive strategy is needed. there are some specific areas that we must take into account when developing such a concept. such as the prohibition of all forms of violence against children, the fight against poverty, discrimination, the right to education. and as mr frattini said in his introduction that the agency would be able to deal with this area in particular, i would like to make a suggestion to you: why not make the first specific question from the commission to the agency to look at this particular area, the enforcement of children's rights. i find particularly troubling the sexual abuse of children or the institution of child labour, the fact that there are huge differences today in how children with refugee status are treated in different eu member states. the problem of street children, children forced to beg, is a serious problem here, in our immediate environment. i am also convinced that the fight for the full realisation of children's rights within the union must be a reassessment of the role of the family in this new europe. to strengthen the role of education in addition to education, so that our children are educated in addition to professional knowledge in our increasingly confusing world. perhaps there would be fewer children who are prone to violence, who suffer physically or who are emotionally damaged. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. a strong society and economy can only be built on the back of healthy generations, citizens, in body and soul, and we must therefore ensure the fate and rights of future generations in the best possible way, in our own interests, because we all need the solidarity of future generations sooner or later. it is therefore appropriate to acknowledge the report of roberta angelilli, which sheds light on this subject in a complex way. our children's right to a full life is a complex system of social requirements and legal safeguards. the right of the child to be born and raised in a healthy environment. you have the right to learn, to pursue your dreams. the poverty of families and children is a fundamental obstacle to the exercise of these rights and it cannot be overstated how crucial the role of the european institutions and member states is in the fight against poverty. this is also to prevent crimes against children and the exploitation of children. at the end of last year, a europe without borders entered a new era. the challenge is that the opening of schengen does not create a favourable opportunity for criminals, and it is therefore desirable to develop a system that makes information on crimes and convictions against children available to member states and protects children from being employed by criminals in their environment. mrs angelilli's excellent report will only be of real value if legislative action follows. i trust that you will. thank you, mr president.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, my fellow members of the house. europe's future depends on its ability to create societies that embrace and support children. the promotion and protection of children's rights is of crucial importance for the future of the european union. the development of child-friendly societies in the union is inseparable from the further deepening and consolidation of european integration. a comprehensive eu strategy is needed to effectively promote and ensure the rights of children within and outside the union. children shall be entitled to special care and appropriate legal protection. it is the responsibility of the member states to provide parents with a wide range of support in their child-rearing tasks. these are the only tools we have to build a safe and inclusive europe. our policies must constantly take into account the diversity of children, their different needs, with a particular focus on poverty, social exclusion and the effects of discrimination both in the eu and globally. i consider it important that the recommendations of the un committee on the rights of the child are consistently and regularly taken into account in the eu's bilateral agreements with non-eu states. the pse group would like a separate vote on amendment 127.
in writing. – educational segregation is one of the most harmful forms of discrimination faced by roma children. as a basic human right, education is crucial for the attainment of other human rights, and investment in early childhood education for roma is a policy that functions on multiple levels and benefits more than the children it aims to educate. the benefits of early education include: the promotion of social equity, increased individual and broader social productivity, reduced levels of poverty, and the elimination of discriminatory attitudes and social exclusion. as roma children become more educated, they increase their chances of becoming productive members of the workforce. while they earn money and contribute to the national budget through taxes on both income and consumption, they begin to influence the way in which non-roma view them, thereby affecting broader social issues. also, as roma become more productive and their poverty level decreases, they also become contributing members of society instead of beneficiaries of public aid. the combination of the increased contribution and the decreased benefits paid out by the government is the net budgetary benefit to the national budget. a program that supported these developments would benefit all europeans and not only the roma.
in writing. the european union has a major responsibility to protect the fundamental rights of people, and in particular the rights of children. in contrast, 19% of children in the union are at risk of poverty, a higher proportion than among the adult population (15%). worldwide, 40 million children under the age of 12 are victims of some form of violence. nearly six million are in forced labor, and one and a half million are victims of human trafficking. in view of these developments, a european strategy for the protection of children's rights with zero tolerance is urgently needed. i believe that better regulation, including the impact of new and existing rules on minors, can play a key role in this. however, i do not support the creation of a separate parliamentary body responsible for children's rights. the commission shall be assisted by a coordinator for children's rights, appointed by the commission, who may also carry out its tasks. i am in favour of the creation of a post of commissioner for human rights and minorities, who would also be responsible for the protection of children's rights. it is important to note that the majority of disadvantaged children are roma or belong to minorities in europe. it would also be advisable to implement a european institutional reform in which the child rights coordinators under the commissioner would become a link between the dialogue and cooperation between institutions, ngos and governments. given that there are already a number of european organisations and institutions dealing with children's rights in the union, the emphasis should be on bringing together and making the old ones more effective, rather than creating new ones. today, education is becoming a more pressing issue along with the protection of children's rights. mindful parenting turns unwitting child offenders into conscious law-abiding citizens.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. officer, please. the demographic situation in europe requires the restructuring of pension systems, the raising of the age limit, and we hear more and more about the possibility of regulated immigration rather than exploiting the potential of our own over-50s. a well-organised adult education allows the professional who has worked for decades to update his knowledge and adapt to changing circumstances. on the other hand, it also allows adults who are excluded from the labour market but not of retirement age to re-enter and take up work through retraining, language, computer and other vocational training. this function of adult education is particularly relevant in the regions of the central and eastern european countries, where employment rates are significantly below the eu-15 average. in addition to the labour market aspects, adult education has a third, social, personal dimension, as online language courses for the elderly, or even dance courses or cooking courses, contribute to improving their quality of life, to improving the well-being of the elderly. i believe that two things are of paramount importance for effective adult education: firstly, improving information and access, presenting successful projects and sharing experiences with those involved. we must remember that in the new member states, a very small proportion of older people use the internet, and we must use conservative, traditional methods to reach them. here, the role of local authorities is paramount, as they have detailed knowledge of local conditions and needs. on the other hand, it is important to carry out a needs assessment, i.e. to consult the economic operators, enterprises and employers when drawing up adult education programmes in the member states. the needs of the country's economy must be taken into account to ensure that the money spent on adult education is not wasted but provides a demonstrable benefit to the individual, society and the economy. i congratulate mrs. doris pack on her important and timely report. thank you for your attention.
mr president, ‘a good priest learns until death’ says the hungarian proverb. in these days not only the priest, but all adults should learn during their adult years. i welcome ms pack’s report and the commission’s adult learning action plan as well. of course, it is very sad that only 9.6% of our adult citizens participate in lifelong learning. it is not easy to start learning when you have grown up. the harmonisation of family life, working life and learning is a hard task, but in the longer term both the family and the professional career may benefit from adult learning. in europe we have millions of unemployed people and at the same time millions of empty jobs requiring skilled employees. the low level of qualifications implies a high risk of unemployment, but continuous training and learning may help both the person and the economy. i agree with ms pack that not only should lifelong learning be promoted, but economic tools are also needed to encourage employers to hire older workers. there is only one solution for the challenge of our ageing society: to respect older workers and provide proper jobs for the older generation as well. of course, for these we need lifelong learning and also lifelong vocational training.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committees on their fruitful and highly social work. however, i was sad to find that it only makes one reference to the development of information and communication skills. just think of the legislation we have passed in recent years, which has given new rights to european citizens, and how many of these have provided that workers, consumers, pensioners and tourists can obtain information and legal advice online. all of this makes sense if the beneficiaries have access to the information. the development of e-skills will also become vital in lifelong learning and general education as a cornerstone of the information and knowledge society. the promotion of digital equality and e-inclusion is also a key task for member states. i'm very happy that if not in many other things, but in this for example all hungarian parties agree. modern information and communication technologies in themselves offer an unprecedented opportunity in history to effectively promote cohesion and equal opportunities, but this opportunity can only be realised if we ensure that everyone has the conditions for integration throughout their lives, and so the commission's communication 'it is never too late to learn' is necessarily true of e-skills. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. mr. prime minister, with your presidency, the new member states have taken another step on their way to becoming adults. it is likely that your presidency will help to dispel the reservations that have never existed in the european institutions but are present in the daily life of the european union. you are the first presidency of the european year of intercultural dialogue. our region knows that the great red spot on the globe has become a uniformly painted spot of east-central europe, but this region has never been uniformly colored. this area has always preserved its historical diversity and diversity. they know this especially in the western balkans, because yugoslavia covered the fault lines, but they couldn't bridge them. it is therefore no coincidence that we are the ones who have the most to offer in terms of rethinking and reinforcing our national, linguistic and cultural identities, and we look to you for help in this, since your presidency can help to rebuild an identity which is now inseparable from the european citizen's consciousness. the slovenian presidency has the opportunity and the task of entering a new phase in the european mission in the region, in the further steps of enlargement. slovenia is the gateway to the western balkans, and through this gateway lies the path to europe. the enlargement fatigue of the member states must not become reform fatigue in this region, since this would jeopardise the stability of our region. and finally, the reform treaty. i am proud that hungary was the first to ratify the reform treaty, although today there is very little political consensus in hungary, it could have been on the issue of europe. our region needs a more and better functioning europe, and we are confident of the slovenian presidency's contribution and support. i wish you great success in your presidency.
in writing. first of all, i would like to welcome the ambitious programme of the slovenian presidency, which has made the closure of the western balkans, an area of importance for the eu as a whole, a priority. the commission's 2006 report says that the 2004 enlargement was a great achievement for the old and new member states, but that the smooth management of the process was the key to its success. the eu is currently facing new challenges that require increased efforts. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's external action programmes. the eu has a fundamental interest in supporting the reform process in the western balkans and in achieving a settlement of the situation in kosovo acceptable to all, within the framework of the european perspective. enlargement is a strategic and security interest of the eu, requiring effective development policy and partnership cooperation. priority shall continue to be given to programmes in the western balkans aimed at reducing disparities in development and strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion. however, to ensure a balance between competitiveness and uptake, and to promote western balkans development, it is essential to encourage investment in human resources, to support the development of a knowledge-based, creative society. in line with the principle of european solidarity, efforts should be made to eradicate poverty and to provide 'indirect assistance' to the western balkan countries. we have a shared responsibility to support the slovenian presidency programme in order to achieve the main eu objectives.
in writing. it is historic that the union is led in the first half of 2008 by a new member state, which joined in 2004. this is a major step forward in enabling the newly joined member states to take their rightful place at the eu table. the stakes are high for the first new eu presidency, with slovenia leading the union at a key moment. the main tasks of the slovenian presidency will be to facilitate the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon, to launch the new three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy dynamically and to continue to develop an integrated energy and climate policy. the slovenian presidency will give priority to the integration of the western balkans, with particular emphasis on the future status of kosovo. slovenia's sensitivity and regional awareness can make the complex settlement somewhat easier and help maintain the unity of the eu in the missions to be sent to kosovo, as agreed at the european council in december 2007. under the slovenian presidency, the european commission will present its legislative proposal for a health review of the cap in march, which will be the start of a comprehensive conceptual and financial reform of the cap. the presidency will also give priority to the programmes for the 2008 year of intercultural dialogue. we encourage our slovenian friends to lead a successful presidency. i am confident that slovenian politics and diplomacy will succeed in solving the difficult tasks and that as a new member state we can be proud of our neighbour.
author. - thank you, mr president. my fellow members of parliament, the honourable chairman. several documents, including the european parliament's 2005 roma resolution, the european commission's 2004 study, the report of the european parliament's committee on women's rights on roma women, and the 2003 osce action plan, are both clear in their approach to addressing the unsustainable situation of roma in europe. yet neither the member states nor the european institutions have made much progress in promoting the inclusion of roma, whereas it is in the interest of both the european labour market and european societies to successfully integrate europe's largest and fastest growing minority. the recommendation of the report of the high level advisory group set up by commissioner vladimir spidla, presented last december, is an important step towards the establishment of a community action plan. this action plan must be put in place, but much stronger and more credible commitment from the commission is needed to take effective and immediate action. the same applies to the european parliament and to civilians in other areas affecting roma. the european commission should initiate, finance, monitor and pass on to the member states direct assistance from union funds to the most disadvantaged groups. the gender impact of the investment should be considered as a relevant and quantifiable consideration when the european union funds are called, i.e. in the case of developments financed from eu funds, the applicant should be obliged to carry out or implement a gender equality analysis and action plan. if the action plan were to become a mandatory part of the applications of the different development sectors and regions, it would make a major contribution to ensuring and promoting equal opportunities for disadvantaged and declining social groups. it is also essential to establish a pan-european crisis map to identify the areas in the european union where roma and non-roma communities are most affected by extreme poverty and social exclusion, and along which the european commission can start, with the support of the member states, the desegregation work that has been delayed for decades by the different political commitments of governments. it is important that the commissioners responsible, directly or indirectly, for the integration and reception of minorities, through the education, employment, equal opportunities, regional and development policy portfolios, coordinate their activities and develop, in a professional group, in cooperation with parliament and civil society, the 2008 action plan on roma issues, and that its implementation should start as soon as possible. in addition to the fact that we adopted a resolution in 2005, which we are seeing very little effect of now, i think it is important that a dialogue between the parties should start as soon as possible, involving the commission and the civilians. and i think that in the year 2008, we should definitely see in all the party organizations, the movements and the conversations about roma. i think it's important and i'm committing on behalf of the people's party to take this initiative in 2008. thank you, sir.
author. - thank you very much. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i would remind you that the lack of integration of the roma was already brought to the attention of this parliament in 1983. in 1994, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the commission, the council and the governments of the member states to do their utmost to promote the social, economic and political integration of the roma. as you will recall, in the parliament's resolution adopted in april 2005, we asked the commission to adopt an action plan containing clear recommendations for the member states and candidate countries on the economic, social and political integration of roma. then, in november 2007, on my proposal, the issue of roma social integration was again included in the text of the parliament's resolution on free movement as a european-wide roma strategy. we then asked the commission again to develop a european strategy for the social integration of roma without delay, using the integration fund and the structural funds. in the meantime, we know for sure that in at least ten eu member states, roma children are still forced to study in segregated classrooms and segregated institutions, and as a matter of common practice, they are unjustifiably classified as disabled, and placed on a certain life path, forever stigmatising us, roma. unfortunately, in every member state, it is known exactly in which slums the roma live, in which terrible conditions. i regret to say that we also know for certain that the average life expectancy of roma in all member states is 15 years lower than that of eu citizens. again, in the member states, roma are overrepresented among the unemployed in all member states. in the meantime, unfortunately, not a month goes by without a racist attack on roma in a member state. we know from reports - or we may not have known specifically - that on the night of january 4, 2008, a shelter in the marconi district of rome was set on fire to nearly 250 roma living there, and then three days later, in aprilia, italy, molotov cocktails were thrown at a local cigar factory, putting nearly hundreds of people in immediate danger. in both cases, the attacks were motivated by racism. there is no doubt that accountability is a right, that a motion for a resolution is needed, that a european strategy is needed and that each member state should draw up an action plan for roma integration. no one is an exception, no one can pretend that there are no roma in their own country - whether they are recognised or not - and the above would not be true for all eu member states, without exception. thank you, sir.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i was pleased to hear commissioner ferrero-waldner speak and i was pleased to see the initiatives that are expected to take place in the future. i think that this will really help the situation of the roma, but i have to agree with my dutch colleague who has expressed his impatience. i myself and many others are impatient because the situation is changing very slowly. the 7 to 9 million roma living in europe, most of them in poor social conditions, face the same problems as they did years ago: the problem of exclusion and integration, the lack of employment, the problem of segregation in schools, the multiple discrimination against roma women. most member states do not consider roma as a national minority, do not want to achieve any substantial change in their situation, and the experience of recent years has shown a rather stronger radicalism and anti-gypsyism in both the new and the old member states. i therefore believe that we need to stop wasting time and make real changes, and that we need a coordinated european roma policy. without a european roma policy, there is no national roma policy, and we must understand and face this. it would be good if we took steps to recognise the transnational minority status of the roma, because it is indeed a special status. the european parliament and the socialist group have already launched an action plan, and in march we will be travelling around europe, organising conferences, workshops and visits involving local roma, ngos and governments, in order to uncover cases of discrimination and to draw the attention of the european public to the plight of the roma and to try to remedy it. thank you very much.
mr president, the european union has no minority policy towards the roma, traditional national minorities or migrant minorities. i classify the roma as a traditional national minority, but they must be treated as a separate category because of their specific social disadvantage. i am very pleased that the two hungarian roma members, járóka lívia and viktória mohácsi, have raised this question as the living conscience of the european parliament, together with others, because we rightly condemned the events in italy in november. it's very good that we keep coming back to this question. what is the role of the european union? i'm very pleased with what officer ferrero-waldner said. the european union also has a role to play, but there must be a separation between the competences of the member states and the european union. and i completely agree with hannes swoboda, who is no longer here, not because of the austro-hungarian monarchy, but because he is right, namely, that the local level decides whether something succeeds or not. in particular, a national action programme should be given to the member state. i am proud that we have developed europe's first medium-term roma programme during my tenure as secretary of state. you have to give money to the member state, but everything is done at the local level. what can the eu do? check what the member states are doing, give a methodology on best practice, on best practices, what is the best solution. it is not just a question of money, but a question of qualified experts, whether there are people from the majority and the roma society who want to take this case forward. the future of europe depends on minorities.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank ms polfer for her excellent work and excellent cooperation. the european parliament sends out loud and clear messages with this report: the message that the eu should get strongly involved in the south caucasus, the message that the eu can play a decisive role in the region and the message that the eu should increase financial and technical assistance to help georgia, armenia and azerbaijan to reform their administration and to develop their democratic institutions, to encourage civil society to interact and to strengthen these nations’ commitments to the european values of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. these are the core principles of the eu but, as i have said again and again in this house, we have to accept that the improvements in those areas are a step-by-step process, which will take time. my conclusion in that situation is that all three countries are moving in the right direction, slowly and sometimes with setbacks, but i hold on to the fact that the situation is better than it was a couple of years ago. on the georgian elections, i have nothing to add to what my colleagues have already said. the situation is, as i have just said, a step forward, but a lot remains to be done. concerning the answer to frozen conflicts, everybody agrees that finding a peaceful solution is the key to achieving political stability. especially with regard to the nagorno-karabakh conflict, i am one of those who support a solution based on the principles of territorial integrity and the right of self-determination. i am also one of those who believe that new security arrangements are needed to build trust between the different sides and put an end to the slow but steady and warring process of the demilitarisation of the region.as i said before, more intensive engagement is needed from the eu and the international community. a ‘no war, no peace’ situation is a source of instability and, most of all, the eu can and should transfer its experience and achievements in peace-building, economic prosperity and democracy in the region.
in writing. the report on black sea synergy rightly highlights all the areas where strengthening dialogue could be mutually beneficial for both the eu and the states of the region. energy policy is an inevitable part of this. the deepening of cooperation between the union and the black sea countries can lead to substantial progress in the area of community security of supply. the construction of gas pipelines, which will greatly reduce europe's energy dependence, is unthinkable without the full contribution of the states of the region. the establishment of a transparent, non-discriminatory transport framework is crucial for the well-being of not only the eu member states but also the other states in the region. the importance of the nabucco pipeline cannot be overstated, as it would provide an alternative for europe in terms of both sources and partners and transport routes. in this respect, it is particularly important that the countries concerned resist attempts at sharing that are likely to have short-term benefits. nabucco could be a symbol not only of the emerging common energy policy but also of black sea cooperation. in discussing this issue, it is worth noting russia's increased activity in the region. the european union must make it clear that it considers any monopoly on energy resources here unacceptable. as the committee on industry states in its opinion on the report, access to resources is a legitimate community interest. the principles of free competition should be applied in the formulation of union policy in this area.
mr. president, madam commissioner, and my fellow members of the house. industrial sectors and industrial policies for development can put the european economy at the forefront of competitiveness, knowledge and sustainability, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in lisbon, the need and requirements for higher employment rates, a significant increase in the employment of women, the broad guarantee of gender equality, the provision of adequate and favourable conditions for the employment of women workers go beyond the positive role of women in the economy. equal opportunities should be ensured in all sectors of industry in terms of employment, promotion, remuneration, reconciliation of work and private life, provision of training and further training, examination and application of different forms of flexible working. in summary, fair working conditions for women in industry and adequate representation in advocacy organisations must be ensured. these areas should not be exempted from the requirements of gender equality, i.e. the principles and practices of 'gender mainstreaming' should be applied consistently. it is important that adequate data are available on the actual conditions prevailing in a significant number of and substantially different industrial sectors, on the differences between sectors. a wide range of statistical data is needed to formulate strategies and concrete recommendations. numerous international management studies have shown that women's special leadership skills can make a significant contribution to the success of companies. this is a chance that europe must not pass up. thank you very much.
in writing. i welcome this important report, and would like to point out that women are highly affected by illnesses in industrial workplaces. a recent study shows that every three and a half minutes, one person in the eu - 140,000 people a year - dies from an occupational disease. chemicals are a major cause. chemicals are the cause of 86% of all workplace cancers. it is important to know that women although they live longer than men are considered to be a more sensitive, vulnerable group to chemicals, as they accumulate chemicals in their natural fat tissues, which they pass on to their offspring. this is why we need a well-thought-out european strategy to minimise the number of work-related illnesses and deaths and to maximise the protection of women.
thank you, madam president, and thank you, gentlemen. i welcome the commission's efforts both in international cooperation and in domestic legislation. they can always count on parliament's support in this. it is good to see europe taking a leading role in the third industrial revolution. i am convinced that the technological innovation that will result will be able to meet the legitimate needs of developing countries and the burden of our own growth. however, the greatest threat to the union is the lax, reluctant attitude of some member states, which threatens the implementation of these ambitious plans. but the commission is also guilty of this, because it regularly turns a blind eye to the failure of the member states to comply. let me give you a personal example: while we were candidates for membership, the commission forced every single piece of legislation on us, and since we have been members, it has ignored everything. this isn't fair, this is a compromise. you spoke about energy saving in homes: well hungary has not introduced a directive on energy certification of buildings for 2 years. the commission doesn't require that, apparently. hungary contributes only a small amount of eu funds to energy efficiency and savings. the commission does not impose this. i ask how the objectives set by the commission can be achieved if the commission itself [...]
in writing. – renewable energies can, in principle, offer a solution to global climate change and europe’s energy crisis. however, biofuels and other forms of bioenergy are contradictory tools for combating climate change. up to a certain level they positively replace fossil energy, but on a larger scale they endanger the rainforests and the food supply of third world countries. there are already worrying signs of deforestation in brazil, indonesia, malaysia and other countries. food prices have risen as well due to the growing consumption of biofuels. the eu should limit its bioenergy consumption to the surplus agricultural capacity of the union itself, discouraging deforestation.
madam president! by the end of 2012, the full liberalisation of postal services will be completed, bringing the common market in this area to completion. since the opening of the market will have a different impact on the markets of the member states, we have managed in the course of the legislation to make the opening step by step. we have also achieved what i personally consider to be a result, namely that the posts concerned will be able to retain their current available revenue until the end of the derogation period. for the first time in a long time, european regulation was designed to put everyone in a competitive position. special thanks to the reporter for that. in other words, for companies competing after the opening of the market, this regulation does not represent a disadvantage but also new prospects. madam president, please. but all of this is only half a success if the next steps are not taken. what are they? first, the post with a derogation must focus in the coming years on being able to meet the requirements of european competition, i.e. to make real use of the time advantage that must now be gained. second, national regulations and policies must ensure that, while the postal service is being slimmed down with the slogan of competitiveness, universal service is actually provided at an adequate level. because let's not forget, the responsibility for providing it remains the responsibility of the nation state. the regulation was designed to ensure that european citizens, wherever they live, even in the smallest towns, have access to postal services at an appropriate price and quality. thank you for your attention.
thank you, madam president, and colleagues. the gradual opening of the market for postal services is an important milestone towards the completion of the internal market. it contributes to the abolition of special rights within the postal sectors, sets a specific and irrevocable date for opening, and ensures a sustainable high standard of universal services. opening up markets increases competition and thus improves the level of service, quality, price and choice. the measure will contribute to the harmonisation of the basic principles governing postal services and is expected to result in lower tariffs, better and more innovative services and enhanced conditions for growth and employment in the sector. the amendment of the directive is the result of an exemplary compromise, one which took account of the differences arising from the historical and economic characteristics of the member states. this is in view of the fact that preparation for liberalisation takes longer in some member states, especially in central and eastern europe. at the same time, taking into account the interests of others, in order to avoid distortions of competition in the market, postal operators in countries where the postal sector is already fully liberalised may not provide services until the end of the derogation period in december 2012. i thank my colleague, mr. ferber, for his work, but i also thank, of course, shadow reporter brian simpson.
in writing. the un climate summit in bali did not produce concrete results, but it paved the way for a new global climate agreement after 2012. unfortunately, the biggest emitters, like the united states and china, still don't want to be part of this important process for the future of the earth. but with the us presidential election in full swing, it is hoped that a candidate who feels a responsibility to the current administration for the future of our globe will win. if the united states joins the climate agreement, hopefully it will be easier to convince china. of course, we must not forget that europe is the largest consumer of chinese products, and so indirectly, as consumers, we are also contributing to china's greenhouse gas emissions. the european union representatives in bali, in their declarations, talked about 25 to 40 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. last year, the european parliament voted to cut emissions by 30 percent. the latest commission proposal, however, only recommends a 20% reduction in emissions by 2020. it would be advisable to set a target of the same size, representing the same out and in, and for my part, of course, i support the more ambitious 30% reduction.
in writing. i welcome the compromise reached at the bali climate summit and the decision of the ep's climate committee on this. the bali compromise is a breakthrough in my view, because the parties agreed on a negotiating mandate for a new climate change agreement, which will replace the kyoto protocol, which expires after 2012. and for the first time, developing countries and the united states have also committed to mitigating the effects of climate change. hungary shares the same view as the eu member states. the european council in march 2007 decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels. to achieve this ambitious goal, the european commission has drawn up a package of measures to protect the climate and to promote renewable energy sources, setting an example for other industrialised countries. i hope that his report on sustainable agriculture and biogas, which was adopted yesterday by the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, will also contribute to the fight against climate change. i would like to draw attention to the fact that climate change is already a real problem in hungary, as there is a risk of desertification between the danube and the tisza. the environmental and social erosion of the sand dunes must be stopped, as the livelihoods of nearly 800 000 people are increasingly threatened as a result. stop the desertification of the sandbox.
on the occasion of the european year of intercultural dialogue, i would like to inform you about the extremely discriminatory bill of the romanian conservative party, which, if adopted, would punish persons belonging to ethnic minorities who do not know the romanian state language by depriving them of their citizenship. this language law is directed primarily against the native hungarian community in transylvania. so far, no romanian parliamentary party has taken a stand against it, and the national anti-discrimination council has even given it the green light. at the same time, the romanian parliament is preparing to adopt another discriminatory law, the education law. we will refer these matters directly to leonard orban, the european commission's high commissioner for multilingualism in romania, because we believe that romania should follow the democratic practice of the european parliament in terms of linguistic rights.
thank you very much, mr. president. last week, president barroso presented the commission's roadmap for ambitious european carbon reduction in parliament. the next day, the municipality of tőketerebes in slovakia unanimously rejected the plan to build a sulfur power plant with an annual carbon dioxide emission of 4 million tons, against which a widespread protest action has been taking place for about a year and a half with the collection of signatures and penalties on both sides of the border. hurrah! we could say democracy, subsidiarity, civil courage, is working. but there's another question. how does the slovak ministry of environment even think of supporting, recommending, such a power plant? it seems to me that some countries still receive a lot of free carbon dioxide allowances from the commission. i therefore call on the commission to reconsider the appropriateness of the carbon dioxide quota granted to slovakia, because if the slovak government is to break its head in 2008 with a giant sulphur power plant with outdated technology, it means that the eu incentive is not working. thank you, sir.
in writing. improving energy efficiency is the most obvious solution to reducing emissions. joint action in this area can also make a significant contribution to overcoming europe's energy dependency. perhaps the greatest potential for energy savings lies in the efficiency of industrial and residential buildings. this is especially true for the new eu member states. the socialist heavy-duty buildings and the typical half-timbered houses in the area, which house hundreds of thousands of people, have become symbols of energy waste. it is welcome that the european commission has recognised the specific situation of the former socialist countries in its action plan and has made it a priority objective to promote energy efficiency in the new member states. we regret that many member states are not meeting their commitments in implementing energy efficiency legislation. for example, the hungarian government, while speaking out in favour of climate action, has been delaying the adoption of the national energy efficiency action plan for months. but it is also encouraging to see that some communities are still taking advantage of the opportunities. a good example of this is the programme launched in óbuda, one of the largest districts of budapest, under which a number of panel houses will be renovated in the coming years with the help of community grants. we are convinced that europe can play a leading role in energy efficiency. it's also his primary interest. more efficient energy use means a more efficient economy. new jobs and improved competitiveness, and last but not least, a better environment.
in writing. – first of all, i would like to welcome the initiative report by ms hall. as a matter of fact, this report comes at a time where all initiatives aiming at reinforcing concrete actions for greater energy efficiency should be warmly welcomed. energy efficiency is indeed the most effective objective providing already available technological tools for genuinely and rapidly addressing the challenges of global warming and limited fossil resources. we are now embarked on a plan to cut energy consumption and it is essential that we reach our goals on schedule. but of course such a plan will require enormous costs and economical sacrifices. these costs and sacrifices will be especially very challenging for those countries with the lowest budgets and less developed economies. it is essential that the energy efficiency targets will not simply worsen the situation of the weakest economies and industries in the poorest member states. therefore, ad hoc transitional measures to support the most vulnerable sectors and countries while implementing the legislation are required to avoid market failures. of course, in the long run, there is indeed huge cost-effective potential of energy conservation and stronger energy efficiency policy would very likely benefit the job market in the union.
in writing. as the green paper on energy efficiency (doing more with less) by the people's party rapporteur on the environment committee, i welcome the renewed and increased community efforts in this field. at the same time, i am disappointed that while the european commission and parliament are making serious efforts to develop consensus-based rules and to develop workable plans, implementation often depends on the attitude of the member states. the deadline for drawing up action plans is being exceeded by months, six months, by some member states, for example there are still 7 countries which have not yet submitted their plans despite the delay of 7 months. but that's not the only problem. there is a lack of social coordination of these plans and the action plans drawn up are often very poor, often not reflecting the realistic timetable and means of achieving the commonly agreed objectives. as a result, we can say with confidence that in many eu countries, the only words that have been spoken in support of energy efficiency and savings, and the resulting 'low carbon society' - that is, a low or even zero-carbon economy, household and transport? the commission, the guardian of eu law, should periodically produce summary analyses, evaluations of the quality of the national plans submitted and the extent to which they are implemented by the member states.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear colleagues, given hungary's specific situation, it is particularly important for us to promote the practical application of cross-border cooperation. therefore, hungary was among the first to establish and implement national legislation in line with the community regulations establishing the egtc. however, the practical application of the new tool is facing difficulties, and we would like to set up a working group to develop a manual in cooperation with the programme partners. i would respectfully ask the commissioner whether interact would support an egtc working group in the framework of technical assistance and, if so, how this could be done. moreover, not only cross-border cooperation at the internal border but also external ipa and enpi programmes are important for the igtc. our internal border programmes have already been approved by the european commission, and ipa-supported programmes are expected to be approved by february. however, the final design of the enpa-funded hungarian-romanian-slovak-ukrainian border programme will have to wait for the guidelines to be prepared by the commission. i would also like to know when the commission's guidelines on neighbourhood programmes are expected to be published. thank you very much.
in writing. − in april 2005, the european parliament adopted a resolution on improving the situation of roma, calling on the european commission to develop an action programme for roma. since then, nothing has happened except promises and loud words. the 12-15 million roma in europe, and the 10 million roma in the eu since accession in 2004, are facing the same problems as they did years ago, in poor social conditions: poverty, exclusion, integration problems, lack of employment, multiple discrimination against roma women and children. most member states do not consider roma as a minority in their own countries, and do not make any substantial changes to their situation. in fact, the experience of the past year shows a rather stronger radicalisation in both the new and the old member states. so i think it's time for some real change. the european socialist group has already launched its action plan, in which it has set up a 'resolution' with leading experts from the other parties as a first step. i therefore ask my fellow members to take up this european challenge and to vote together to launch a european roma strategy.
mr. president, i have to go. on february 13, labor prime minister kevin rudd formally apologized on behalf of the australian state for two centuries of attacks on the dignity of aboriginal people. the gesture speaks for itself and is particularly relevant to us here in europe. more than 60 years after the tragic events of the second world war and its aftermath, there is a country in europe where 3 million people were expelled from their country - your people, mr president - and another half million citizens were stripped of their citizenship, their human rights and their property. there hasn't been an apology yet. europe is not built on nationalism and confrontation, but on a policy of apology and forgiveness, of reconciliation. it would be good if all national and european leaders in the union were guided by unconditional adherence to the european values of mutual respect, apology and protection of human and minority rights, instead of collective guilt and blame-seeking. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, it is shocking and unacceptable that silvio berlusconi made an openly racist statement last week, declaring zero tolerance for roma, illegal immigrants and criminals. francesco storace, the candidate for mayor of the italian capital, spoke of the demodenization of rome in his statement yesterday, making it clear that roma have no place in the eternal city. are these statements coming 18 days after the adoption of the ep's position on the european roma strategy? i would ask my italian colleagues to explain to their colleagues at home why they supported the resolution, what objectives we agreed on and why it is not appropriate to smoke in the 21st century. my open letter on anti-roma statements was signed by 33 roma civil society organisations in italy, 12 in hungary, 9 in macedonia, 4 in romania, 3 in turkey, 2 in moldova, 5 in bulgaria, 2 in france, a total of 72 roma civil society organisations. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the independence of kosovo is a major change in the balkans. this step may be another painful but seems to be an inevitable step in the balkan cleansing process. as for the future of kosovo, we need a solution that guarantees the collective and individual rights of an indigenous minority, the serbs, ensuring their survival as a community in their own historical cradle. however, if some of them still want to leave kosovo, they should avoid going to areas inhabited by other nationalities of serbia, such as the southern regions inhabited by albanians or the northern regions inhabited by hungarians. such a move would only add to the tension between the now understandably nervous serbs and these minorities. avoiding this danger will allow for further purification, including a long-term and not superficial settlement of the relationship between the indigenous minorities and the state in belgrade and novi sad and in vojvodina, or the removal of the deadlock in bosnian state-building. the latter could provide a basis for the desirable developments in the system of nationality rights and tolerance now being developed in kosovo. thank you, mr president.
mr. president, i commend the albanian people of kosovo on the occasion of their declaration of independence and i pay tribute to the memory of albanian leader ibrahim rugova. in the tragic history of the south slavic region over the last decade and a half, all the plans for settlement were conceived in the name of self-determination of peoples, autonomy and the sharing of power. the carrington plan, the dayton convention, the negotiations in rambouillet and the ahtisaari plan, which is similar to the ochridi convention, show that relations between the various ethnic groups and national communities in our region are not yet resolved, but that international cooperation will help to resolve any critical situation in the future. in this sense, the kosovo settlement is an example and precedent for us. we are convinced that the peaceful struggle of the hungarian people in romania for autonomy and for the territorial autonomy of szeklerland can also be brought to fruition with the benevolent contribution of the european union.
thank you, mr president. i have spoken many times in this house about the seven years of pollution of the river raba. we have received several promises from austrian authorities and the austrian and hungarian authorities have even developed an action plan. the european union is monitoring the process and the monetary committee set up by the two countries is holding regular consultations as of this week. the politics seem to be working, but the river is dying. today, not only on the hungarian side, but also on the austrian side. so far, 11 species have gone extinct and 13 are critically endangered. greenpeace conducted a series of surprise sampling operations, finding illegal water pollution and multiple exceedance of the limit values by austrian plants. and the river is more foamy than ever. what i'm talking about is not a canal, mr. president, but a real wild river in natura 2000. the people there feel that the eu rules are either not good or that they are not being followed properly. i think we in the house of representatives should keep this on the agenda until it's finally resolved. thank you, i'll do it myself.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr vice-president, and my fellow members of the european parliament. the european parliament considers the protection of the community's financial interests to be one of its most important tasks, since it has the right and the duty, like all other parliaments, to control expenditure. moreover, as the perception spreads across europe that eu money is not being properly looked after, we also owe it politically to the public, to our voters, to our taxpayers. we exercise these legislative and political obligations primarily in the discharge procedure, but we have also been reporting regularly for years on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud. our goal is not to create a sensation or a scandal, but to objectively assess the situation and solve the problems. i would like to congratulate mr musotto once again on this excellent report and to thank vice-president siim kallas and mr hermann brüner for their constructive cooperation in this area. despite the fact that these high-level reports are receiving great praise year after year, we in the european institutions sometimes feel that we are fighting a windmill, because the findings of the reports are met with resistance from the council, so that the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps for years. the weakest link is the attitude of the member states, because in some member states - our colleague mrs grässle was just talking about germany, perhaps in this context - they do not want to acknowledge the importance of the proper use of eu funds and the control of this, as well as the recovery of wrongful payments. we find it particularly regrettable that vat is becoming increasingly 'price-fixing' across europe, to the extent that we no longer have aggregated data on its amount, although some estimates speak of between 35 and 40% of the eu budget. it is time to take decisive action in this respect too, for the sake of european affairs and public opinion. thank you very much.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, congratulations on a report that highlights recent successes, but also some sad shortcomings and old debts. for me, the timeliness of the report is that a decision has already been taken in hungary to set up a national anti-counterfeiting body. the board will primarily perform coordination tasks between the hungarian patent office, other government bodies and economic actors, including in relation to eu data services. we must prepare for a long and fruitless struggle. knowledge, whether proprietary or public, is becoming more widely available. a car displayed in one room takes five minutes to replicate in the next room. the result is not worse, it's cheaper: we have to make the decision to buy the more expensive goods. how we pay for intellectual performance, for innovation, even if we could choose to do the underlying product, the service, that doesn't have any value added. this requires a high degree of awareness and commitment. we can't expect individual citizens to recognize these connections and make informed decisions if we're not able to do the same at the regulatory, state level. it is particularly important to keep the abuses of eu funds below the margin of error: such fraud exposes the union as a whole in a ridiculous light when eu funds are used against the union's stated objectives.
mr president, mr prime minister! the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights, annexed to the new treaty establishing the european union, states that the peoples of europe share a peaceful future based on common values. but sakharov prize winner mahmoud osman told the european parliament's plenary last december that there can be no peace without justice. unjust peace systems eventually lead to war and disintegration. the latest example of this is the recent balkan war, the breakup of the former yugoslavia. reconciliation is hard to imagine without a just rearrangement. europe must also face up to its communist past. the prerequisite for our peaceful future is the elimination of the destructive legacy of communism. communism deserves to be judged on a par with fascism. there will be no peace, freedom, rule of law, security and stability on our continent until there is justice in every sphere. the same is true of the situation of national minorities.
madam president, after a long debate, we finally have a text which we as socialists can support, and i welcome this compromise on the lisbon resolution. however, let me start by expressing a personal opinion, which is that having an idea is not the whole solution. everything depends on the execution. one has to put the two together. in 2000, the idea of lisbon was good and very timely. nor could we identify better targets than we did during the 2005 review. but if one looks at the execution itself – especially looking back at that execution through time and along the full decision-making chain – it is another story. there has been an improvement compared to the first five years, and we have acquired some dynamism, but the results compared to the needs and the global challenges we face, and compared to the potential we have, are limited. we have had some great initiatives and success stories, like the growth and jobs programme or the ‘think small first’ project, and there have been some great legislative successes – the services directive, the supervision of the financial markets regulation, climate change policy and the new energy package, to list just a few. but the overall feeling is missing, and the commitment itself is missing. in the european institutions we can see this in the decreased use of the expression ‘connecting to the agenda’. it can be seen in the very low interest in the topic last week during the joint parliamentary session with the national parliaments, and it can be seen simply by reading the eurobarometer results. i would like to quote two numbers from the eurobarometer. the so-called optimism index has decreased over the last nine months by nine points, from 26 to 17. also, if one looks at other key performance indicators, the employment optimism index has fallen by three points from +5 to +1 in the last nine months. if one looks further, the key elements of the lisbon strategy are amongst the last issues people consider to be the most important. this means that, eight years after lisbon, european citizens do not believe that the eu can provide proper responses on these issues. so lisbon is still in our documents, but is certainly not in our hearts and minds. in the 21st century the race of continents will not be decided only by natural and energy resources or by financial resources. the power of human capital and human resources will determine the winner. the conjunction of the total population, in terms of quantity, and the consistency of its knowledge, in terms of quality, will jointly decide the strength of the community. we still have a lot to do as regards knowledge creation, knowledge management and the motivation of people as a community. this is a community that we need to consider as a whole, not letting anyone be discriminated against. we cannot leave anyone out, whether young or old, black or white, rich or poor. we need everyone – the people as a whole. in the 21st century, real people will be central, yet the commission president is not here today to speak about this ... (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you, mr president. first of all, just two brief comments on the lisbon process. one, we have to work more, almost as much as the americans. secondly, the lisbon process is only worth something if it is accompanied by a sanction, like the excessive deficit. two: the guidelines. i would like to see the new member states looking at things not in terms of neoliberal indicators but from a little further away. because what's the point of zero deficit and zero inflation if, for example, the quality indicators are deteriorating? the decline in the quality of life, the lack of entrepreneurial spirit, the lack of family growth and so on -- this is unfortunately much more serious. when you look at the reform of the large distribution systems, it's also very important to slim down if you have to. but more importantly, what happens to the health care program, or whether education is a quadrant of employment, so that the market can immediately do something about it, whether vocational education increases in importance, in opportunity. so, again, you have to have a quality eye system, not just pick up a knife and stab. the third is statistics. i'd really like to see a measure of gni instead of gdp. you know, the new countries are taking out their money in the form of dividends, tons of them, while their gdps are growing, so to speak. we should see what's left in the country. stability and growth pact: what do we give concessions for? in a catch-up country, it's not so clear that r&amp;d at 5 or 6 percent or even above 3 percent is so important, because for them catch-up is more important, and they should be rewarded for creating jobs and creating cohesion. i'm missing the black economy measure in the material. in my country, it's about 30%, and we should be looking at that. and finally, the most important thing is to implement the four freedoms equally, not cherry picking, where i open one to capital and i open nothing to service and to newcomers. thank you very much.
in writing. – the aim of creating a dynamic and innovative society in europe bringing growth and employment by 2010 will be successfully achieved only through an approach that genuinely takes into account the fight against poverty and the social dimension. while refocusing the growth and jobs strategy on an improved performance-based approach, social inclusion and environmental standards should at no cost be left aside for achieving economic targets. the prospect of creating new jobs in an innovative-based economy should bring developments in the fields of education and training to improve the equal integration of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged categories of the population eu-wide. investments on innovation, research, transport and energy efficiency should focus on bringing real benefits to the european consumers in a free and fair trade economic union. as a matter of fact, economic growth is not an end in itself and, of course, economic figures are not to be confused with the welfare of european citizens. the real aim of the lisbon strategy should in the end still be the improvement of the quality of life for our citizens and future generations; therefore, a strong social dimension is required.
in writing. the ten-year period in which the european union was supposed to become the most competitive economic area in the world, with a strong social network and exemplary environmental performance, is coming to an end. it doesn't take much courage to predict that in the next two years, we won't be able to perform miracles. the undertaking was too ambitious, and the results were rather modest. but when you consider that in recent years the european union has achieved historic enlargement, reuniting europe, creating a common currency and uniform legislation for 27 nations in many areas, there is no reason to be disappointed with the achievement. in many respects, europe continues to set an example for the world in terms of green thinking and legislation. but we know very well that there are contradictions in this area as well. many laws only prescribe malaszt in some member states, and some environmental limits are more permissible than in many non-eu countries. the lisbon objectives are therefore correct, but much more needs to be done to achieve them - after the great enlargement boom, in a period of consolidation - than has been the case so far.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. vambéry armin, a native of my country, 150 years ago was the first european to tell the world about the closed relations in central asia, about the cultural, state administration and commercial conditions before the russian conquest. for centuries, this area was the silk road between europe and asia, the umbilical cord of the land. after a long period of russian and soviet domination, the five countries of central asia can once again act as the umbilical cord between europe and asia. unfortunately, in many cases, it is already the case today, since much of the illegal trade in people and drugs still passes through these countries from asia to europe, as does natural gas. that is why europe needed and needed a strategy to build its relations with central asia. but europe cannot want cooperation to be about dealing with the threats that come from there, about access to energy and raw materials, or about how europe is trying to educate this region in democracy and human rights. there is a need to build genuine cooperation with the region, and i therefore support the union's efforts to promote the wto membership and integration of the central asian countries into international trade. europe must do everything it can to help the economic, social and political development and modernisation of this region. but this can only happen on the basis of mutual trust. it is therefore important to give priority to environmental protection in cooperation. climate change, chronic water use problems or remediation of past pollution are all areas that need more attention. in parallel, europe must strictly refrain from any project that pollutes the environment and destroys the lives of its inhabitants. i have already drawn the commission's attention to the negative assessment of the cyanide gold mining project, which is also financed by the ebrd, by the kyrgyz and uzbek ngos. europe cannot support such technology for any money, either inside or outside europe. thank you very much.
mr. president, this is the house. first of all, i want to make it clear that it is unacceptable for anyone to proclaim himself the sole spokesman for the people in this house and then tell everyone else that he is merely reflecting the opinion of the political elite. that is an unacceptable position. there are many of us in this room who think that, and there are many citizens in europe, represented by us, who think that we need a stronger europe. the new member states have also learned in recent years that the problem with europe is not that it limits our sovereignty, that it takes away our opportunities, but that it is not capable of acting together. this new treaty, the treaty of lisbon, provides the means to do just that. and there are many of us here who are not entirely satisfied with what the treaty of lisbon has brought. at the same time, we must say that the time has come for the ratification of the treaty of lisbon to usher in a period in which we can operate this new europe, this new structure which the treaty of lisbon also creates. so we need a stronger europe, a calm, consolidated period in the next phase. i am pleased to note that the document also states that discrimination against persons belonging to minorities is prohibited. in the european union, we talk a lot about values, about diversity, but the protection of minorities in europe has been weak. the opportunity and the passage that speaks of it opens up new opportunities for europe to turn the rhetoric that it has followed on these issues into reality. we cannot talk about values, we cannot talk about common principles if we leave out the building blocks of europe, the minorities and the individual national communities. i welcome the contract and congratulate the reporters.
thank you, mr president. the report by richard corbett and méndez de vigo is an excellent analysis and a document that will be useful in the long term. acknowledgement and thanks for it. hungary was the first country to ratify the reform treaty. it is important that the overwhelming majority in the highly fragmented and often hostile hungarian political space voted in favour of ratification. there was a consensus that the reform treaty was needed to end the post-accession gap between the old and new member states, to strengthen the unity of the european union, and to increase the efficiency of institutions and measures. in lisbon, for us, the treaty is not just about enlargement. in a complex web of interests, we are particularly interested in rules that strengthen democracy, such as extending the legislative and control powers of the parliament or changing the decision-making of the council. we believe that the smaller and less experienced, the poorer, or those who are disadvantaged by their historical path are better off doing so. simpler decision-making structures can be expected to provide clear disclosure of interests and transparency of political agreements. our future lies in cooperation, the results and benefits of which must be felt by european citizens. it must be felt by those who have been reduced to a minority for whatever reason, by those who have been reduced to a minority by history and wars. in lisbon, it gives them a new chance and a tool against the threat of nationalism. the lisbon treaty is in line with the lisbon strategy, as it includes social rights among the fundamental human rights in the charter of fundamental rights. we hope that this will also bring the citizens of the european union closer together. thank you, mr president.
as the representative of hungary, which was the first to ratify the reform treaty, i am aware that ratification is not enough. it was also said that people - european citizens - should explain how this treaty of reforms is more than the national constitutions, and what its added value is. we need to call the attention of european politicians, often prime ministers make the mistake of saying that this is institutional reform. it's more than that. we are now becoming a political union and we are now becoming a real community of values. in this community of values, the added value of the charter of fundamental rights in the area of social rights for european citizens should be listed. and here i must emphasize that the rights of persons belonging to minorities are finally incorporated into the 80,000 pages of acquis communautaire, since in europe, in the union, one in seven citizens belongs to a traditional national minority. this is a very important step forward in the contract.
thank you, mr president. as a representative of one of the new member states, i would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the solidarity shown by the community towards us, without which the countries of eastern europe would not have been able to recover from 40 years of soviet occupation. as the chairman of the joint parliamentary delegation of croatia, i would like to say that the treaty will make cooperation between member states closer and more effective, while at the same time allowing for the further enlargement of the union to include those european countries which accept and follow the union's values. i believe that the treaty sends a positive message to the western balkan countries that have already started accession negotiations, encouraging them to speed up reforms as they are now within reach of eu accession. finally, one of the most important passages in the treaty for me is undoubtedly the one guaranteeing the rights of minorities, which makes the protection of national and ethnic minorities a constitutional principle of the union. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, mr. president. as has been said by several speakers before me, the success of the objectives set out in the treaties and in the acts depends on the effectiveness with which the member states apply and transpose community law. if the laws are not applied or enforced correctly and cannot fully meet their objectives, then there is a problem. however, in recent years this trend has shown an improvement in the respect of rights, and i think the 10 new member states are doing well, and i hope that this is not only because the commission is more lenient towards us, towards the new member states, but because we are really trying to meet the criteria and the expectations. unfortunately, even today it is not easy to navigate the jungle of bureaucracy, since we know how many legislative measures there are and how often it takes a long time to transpose them into national and regional law. it would be very important to simplify bureaucratic language and extend impact assessments, and to reduce the time needed to implement a procedure initiated on the basis of a single complaint. thank you, sir.
mr president, it is now clear that the declaration of controlled independence for kosovo is inevitable. our main task now is to successfully implement the kosovo settlement, to ensure stability in the region, to ensure that the eu plays its proper role, to establish an eu protectorate, but not in a proxy role. on the one hand, i understand the pain of the serbs: my country lost 60% of its territory after world war i. the loss of almost one fifth of serbia, the cradle of history, state, and church, is a great tragedy for a nation. on the other hand, it is a fact that serbia lost its moral right over kosovo long before, because the serbian state did not provide a proper home for the albanian community living there. we hope that the reactions of the serbian diplomacy will not jeopardise the country's eu integration. we need to help serbia process its loss and accelerate its rapprochement with the european union. gifts are important, positive messages are important, so it is vital that the eu adopts a precise timetable for obtaining visa-free travel for serbia and the other western balkan countries. we must speed up the integration of serbia without making any concessions in terms of requirements. understandably, some eu member states have reservations. i consider the concerns of cyprus and spain to be legitimate, but i am puzzled by the concerns of the romanian and slovak political elites. the integrity of these countries is not threatened. the separation and declaration of unilateral independence must not be a precedent for the eu in the future, but the implementation of the minority system provided for by the ahtisaari plan can be a positive precedent for the protection of european minorities. thank you for your attention.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. declaring kosovo's independence and recognizing it is not the lesser evil we can choose, but the only right thing to do in the current situation. unfortunately, the negotiations have not led to any results, and the ongoing status disorder has continued to destabilize the region. there was no other solution left than what happened last week, the final status settlement, the acceptance of kosovo's independence. we welcome the fact that the kosovo parliament has committed itself to the ahtisaari plan by a large majority. we expect kosovo to put into practice the provisions of the ahtisaari plan, in particular with regard to its minority protection clauses. the ahtisaari plan is the most generous system of minority protection in europe, which can serve as a model and an example for the whole region, and it is therefore very important that this is taken into account in kosovo. the future of kosovo and serbia lies in european integration. it's easier for both countries now. they've gotten rid of a serious, crippling problem that has been holding back the creative energies of both countries. it's up to them to live with that opportunity. if they do, both kosovo and serbia should receive all the support from the european union, in particular with regard to the early granting of visa exemption and the disbursement of financial aid. it is pleasing that the european union has unanimously endorsed the mandate of the civilian mission in kosovo. but what is even more worrying is that there is no common position among the member states of the european union on recognition. if the european union wants to be taken seriously on the world political stage, it cannot afford to be unable to reach a common position on an important event taking place in its immediate neighbourhood. it is therefore very important that the european union speaks with one voice, acts with one voice. finally, i wish the people of kosovo and all its citizens much success and a bright future.
in writing in central and south-eastern europe, we have learned well, those of us born in this less fortunate part of europe: words spoken, promises made on paper, have little credibility. what's important is what they're holding onto in the real world. in kosovo, the ahtisaari plan has been able to turn into an idea that is more than just a promise, it is a reality, bringing calm to this region. while we hear that it cannot set a precedent, the question arises why not, if it creates a functioning system of minority protection. if this is actually observed, then it should set a precedent. we who grew up in a minority lineage and did not choose our fate can only welcome any innovation that promises a long-term solution to the national communities living together. the kosovo story that is now beginning with a committed, implemented ahtisaari plan can be such a long-term solution. we are concerned about the minorities who are now watching with concern in other regions of serbia. will there be a solution that will reassure them, the hungarians of the past? i ask the council and the commission to ensure that the general unrest does not lead to irreversible practices of relocation to the wadden sea. don't lead to ethnic tensions being defused among the remaining minorities. to strengthen rights, not to lead to further deprivation of rights. let us set good precedents in the balkans, so that we can give hope and a vision to the national communities there.
in writing. the declaration of independence of kosovo is making waves in our region. the romanian parties preparing for this year's elections are using the occasion to sow anti-hungarian hysteria. they are all lined up against the szeklerland, a territory similar in size to kosovo, and the transylvanian hungarians, who are roughly equal in population to the albanian province. the romanian parliament's deep concern is completely unfounded and unjustified. romania has nothing to fear from the hungarians. our transnistrian national community respects the constitution and territorial integrity of romania. at the same time, we rightly expect romania to regulate the situation of our national community in a european manner, based on the principle of "rights for the territory", and to guarantee the autonomy of the hungarian people on the personal principle (1) and of szeklerland and other regions on the regional principle (2), based on the principle of self-government applicable in the european union. in line with the council of europe's recommendation 1609/2003 based on the gross report, we acknowledge that the autonomous regions contribute significantly to conflict resolution and to strengthening european stability. at the same time, we would like to draw attention to the fact that romania itself could benefit from the new situation, since the autonomy model of the kosovo serbs could also be a solution for the serbian and ukrainian romanian communities living beyond its borders. in view of all this, it would be advisable for romania not to subordinate the issue of a peaceful settlement to its own ethno-political prejudices, but to recognise the independent kosovo as soon as possible, in line with the other member states of the union.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is the rapporteur for this opinion. - thank you, mr president. we've been learning for decades that climate change, pollution, is threatening our future. the hampton court summit has drawn attention to another risky process: europe is ageing. the libe committee, feeling responsible for the issue, made three proposals to the rapporteur and the emploi committee on civil rights issues. i'd like to thank them for studying and considering our suggestions. the first is to support families and children. legislation on family support schemes is a national competence, but commitment to families with children is also a moral issue and an important part of the european values. the convergence of the opportunities of families with and without children is a vital community interest. and ensuring children's rights is the foundation for future generations to feel a responsibility for the world beyond the family. after analysing legal and illegal forms of migration, libe drew attention to the need for a coherent and complex migration policy in the face of the ageing society and labour market requirements. we are pleased that this presentation is about this in detail. in this year of cultural diversity, i might add that there may be a direct link between migration and population growth, according to scholars and disciplines, because on the one hand, large numbers of children in second-generation immigrant families are declining, while the presence of immigrants may also change the willingness of the host population to adopt children. finally, discrimination against older workers can prevent non-young people from staying longer in the labour market. i would stress that they should not be forced to continue working, but should have a real choice, and that requires lifelong learning. knowledge of modern communication technologies improves job opportunities and opens a window on the global world for older people. in its opinion, libe repeatedly asked the commission to propose a general anti-discrimination directive, and we hope that this report will speed up the process. thank you, mr president.
thank you for your time, mr. president. the report on the demographic future of europe is an important report, addressing key issues such as halting the ageing process of society, increasing the willingness to have children, improving the reconciliation of work and family life, increasing the opportunities and opportunities for women in employment, caring for the elderly, providing for the needy at work and, last but not least, the long-term sustainability and financiability of large social welfare systems. at the heart of all these issues is the family, the division of labor within the family, the simultaneous employment of husband and wife, the care and education of as many children as possible, and the care and care of elderly relatives. how can the employment of adult members be encouraged while at the same time encouraging the willingness to adopt children? we must also see that at the level of eu policy we want to encourage active ageing at the same time, that is, to make it attractive to work alongside retirement, to push the age limit a little further where possible and to reduce benefits through indirect incentives. these interrelated goals can only be achieved by focusing on two key areas: supporting families and improving people's health. it is clear that the willingness of older people to work can only be expected to increase if their state of health is adequate and allows them to work continuously without any particular problems. it is regrettable that for budgetary reasons, in many member states health expenditure is being curbed, reduced and placed on the shoulders of workers, including the elderly, who are in need, with new burdens. this is the wrong direction, it does not help to achieve the lisbon strategy and it does not help to solve the demographic problems. the same applies to family support schemes, which need to be increased rather than curbed and reduced. thank you very much for your time, mr. president.
mr. president, i speak on behalf of a region in demographic crisis and one of its sickest nations. as a member of the committee responsible for public health, i cannot stress enough how closely our demographic problems are intertwined with our health problems. in my country, hungary, cancer is the leading cause of death in europe, and it contributes to the fact that every year 50% more people die than are born. the castex report on the demographic future of europe rightly points to the need to develop new policies for demographic renewal. let me give you just one example: while the population of islamic countries will grow to 1,300 million by 2050, europe's will shrink from 495 to 400 million. this new demographic policy must be built on two foundations: the family as the most important social unit and healthy people. families need to be provided with effective incentives and protection. today, in many member states, having a child is tantamount to accepting poverty. but there are many good examples. in some countries, the state takes the extra burden off the shoulders of large families. this good example must be implemented everywhere. health is the condition for quality of life. citizens should be made interested in preserving their own health. to do this, they receive the necessary state support both in terms of money (see compulsory screenings, free sports facilities) and in terms of mental health and demographic education. it is in the vital interest of each member state to improve its demographic and health situation. this is particularly important in hungary, where the population may fall below 10 million by next year, and where the average age is ten years behind the eu average. the future of europe depends on the demographic performance of the generations living today. what a government misses today with bad policy, it will be hard to fix later.
in writing. population ageing poses significant economic, budgetary and social challenges. it will have a serious impact on growth and will put significant pressure on social spending, so preparing for it is crucial. addressing the demographic challenge is therefore a multifaceted challenge that requires complex strategic analysis, planning and social dialogue. it is not just a question of gradual population reduction, but also of the sustainability of the european social model, which is aimed at the well-being of european citizens, the economic development of europe, the guarantee of its global competitiveness at international level, in other words, the future of europe, our future, and the search for solutions is a common interest. the member states of the european union should support demographic change by all possible means, based on concrete measures to ensure the sustainability of more complex solidarity relationships between generations, the practical implementation of equal opportunities, reconciliation of work and private life, full implementation of the barcelona objectives, the creation of active ageing conditions and the social inclusion of immigrants and ethnic minorities. only common goals, common interests, common solidarity and a commitment to achieving the goals can bring the desired results.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear officer, my dear colleagues. i congratulate mrs kallenbach and mr guellec on their excellent reports, both of which are milestones in the debate on cohesion policy. there are significant differences in the level of development between our regions, but if we look deeper, there are even greater gaps between some areas within the regions. the eradication of rural poverty and the reintegration of declining areas have not been adequately addressed in the framework of the agricultural policy. much greater efforts are needed in this area, in the context of a renewed integrated cohesion policy capable of reversing negative developments in the impoverished regions. the synergies between cohesion and competitiveness must be strengthened and cannot be subordinated to each other. new challenges have emerged, such as the issue of aging, or the issue of energy efficiency, climate change, which we also need to address. it is therefore essential to strengthen cohesion policy and to reject its nationalisation. if we put solidarity and cohesion at the heart of the european project, we will have a truly strong, competitive union. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much for the floor, mr. president, commissioner. the importance and success of cohesion policy is beyond doubt. i think that's what this report is about, and i congratulate the people who wrote it. it aims to create real catch-up, but it is essential that the funds allocated to this end are used effectively. i believe that the value of a project is not in the amount of money that is put into it, but in its efficiency. efficiency can be measured in two ways: how it serves catch-up and how well money is being spent in comparative terms in different countries. it is not possible for one member state to spend more on one project than another. i would like to call attention to this measurement and to the fact that efficiency is the basis on which cohesion policy can be strengthened in the future. thank you very much.
in writing. the european parliament, looking back over the past three years of the lockdown policy and seeing welcome developments but also mistakes to be corrected, looks not only backwards but also forwards. in order to accelerate the development of the lagging regions, we need to change two things. we need to pay much more attention to the efficiency of the programmes, including increasing the amount of locally produced value. (additional theoretical work is needed to assess the results more accurately.) but we cannot ignore the fact that we must provide more resources than we currently have for programmes that can use subsidies effectively and are free from corruption and political influence in the period after 2013. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i therefore ask my colleagues to follow the rapporteur's advice in this respect and not to change the text of the motion.
thank you very much. it was a harrowing experience to enter the gaza strip and face the daily consequences of the occupation and blockade. 80% of the population is unemployed, electricity and water are interrupted by israelis from time to time, many people have only one meal a day, and an area smaller than budapest has been closed to the vast majority of the population for years. as an israeli professor put it, gaza is a prison, its inhabitants are prisoners, from whom it is difficult to expect rational behavior. at the same time, it is also disheartening that some palestinian groups are launching rockets from gaza and endangering innocent israeli civilians. the crisis has gone on too long to be resolved in the traditional way. now, both sides are held captive by their own extremists, and they are unable to make any meaningful concessions. the international community, and above all the european union, must press for a peaceful settlement for israel and the palestinians. i voted in favour of the proposal in the hope that it would be followed by more decisive action by the member states.
madam president, two documents of legal value of the council of europe are ten years old: its framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages. these two documents constitute the criteria for accession to the european union for new member states, according to the copenhagen criteria. i would like to call on the countries concerned which have not yet signed or ratified these two documents with legal force to do so. france, belgium, greece and luxembourg will not be able to be members of the european union according to the copenhagen criteria. these european documents should be incorporated, and the european union would have the credibility before kosovo and new member countries to ask for it ... (the president withdrew the speaker)
thank you for your time, madam president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! in recent days, two events have once again drawn our attention to the need for a common european energy policy. on the one hand, russia has again significantly reduced its gas supplies to ukraine, thus seriously endangering the security of european supply. on the other hand, gazprom and the hungarian government concluded an agreement on the hungarian section of the southern stream pipeline which is incompatible with the eu standards in force. the lesson from both events is clear: while russia is becoming less and less of an energy partner, the european union is gradually becoming more vulnerable. this vulnerability then leads to a deterioration in security of supply and ultimately to higher prices. to prevent this from happening and to guarantee affordable and secure energy supplies to european consumers, a unified eu action is needed. it is not too late to strengthen the foundations of a common european energy policy based on solidarity. thank you, sir.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! mr. vice president, i have to go. transport policy has come to a paradigm shift: different fuels, different technology, different regulations, different social expectations. a new era is beginning in transportation. is there anything that hasn't changed? yes, mobility, because it would be a mistake to limit mobility. but if we don't want to limit mobility, we have to change ourselves. the question is, in what? technological progress is unstoppable, yet we need to spend much more and more purposefully on vehicle development to get clean vehicles on the road as soon as possible. alternative fuels have had a bright and sometimes dubious trajectory, but we need to make a conscious choice to bring second-generation biofuels and hydrogen-related options to market through r&d. in the 7th framework programme, we need to align eu, national and private capital funding. intelligent solutions like caesar or galileo are only moving very slowly, we need to speed them up. we need to reshape the economic environment to meet our goals. the principle of user and polluter pays. finally, let's not tax ownership, let's tax use. then we will be able to transform our driving, our use of and our travel patterns. madam president! we thank our colleague albertini for his work, his thorough and careful report. itre supports the report with these additions, which are also recommended to the commission for its forthcoming green transport proposal. thank you, sir.
thank you, madam president. i would like to congratulate my colleague albertini and make a few remarks. the first. in the area of taxation as a tool, i can accept that it should be applied equally to all modes of transport, but at the same time it should be borne in mind that the tax cannot be increased indefinitely, as it causes severe inflation, which can lead to increased costs and reduced competitiveness for the whole sector. so you can't have a tax on the same things in the sky, like the gas tax. i would note that linking taxation to direct air pollution - for example, registration tax - is a good idea. the second. the expansion of the trade in pollution is another cost factor that will be reflected in prices. this should also be taken into account in the idea of introducing indirect taxes, which is sometimes proposed. the third. indeed, efforts should be made to reduce congestion in cities and thus emissions of air pollution. however, the biggest challenge for the new member states is not only to support urban electric public transport but perhaps even more so to build bypass roads. they are relatively the most lagging behind and should be highlighted as one of the priorities for the use of eu funds. 4. to i agree with the need to create sector neutrality in the internalisation of external costs. however, the requirement of the eu matrix is already a major challenge for hauliers in the new member states, due to increasingly stringent engine emission standards, etc. so internalization in our country can only be solved more slowly and according to specific principles. our hauliers cannot be penalized for example because they have less developed infrastructure and therefore more traffic jams. the fifth. it would be good if the new member states, particularly the danube and the tisza, were to help in the shipping sector, not just with words but also with deeds, and the commission would help in this. intermodality is important and can be the biggest help in modernising the rail network. let's talk about that, and not count the railroad tracks. finally, i hope that the construction of high-speed railways will eventually put the eastern region on the map, because it can only compete with the passenger car in the long term. thank you very much.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. humans have never traveled as much as we do today. forced relocation is also a huge waste of time, a major economic problem and a serious environmental burden. one third of the energy we use is used for transport. and in europe, our main mode of transport is the passenger car. in the last 10 years, the number of cars per thousand inhabitants has increased from 400 to 460, and the use of passenger cars has increased by 18%. over the past 15 years, co2 emissions from transport have increased dynamically, by more than 100% in some member states. the commission forecasts that the energy demand for transport in the union will increase by at least 30% by 2030. this is the kyoto protocol's downfall. it is regrettable that, contrary to the principles that have been set out, road transport projects continue to be given priority in europe over rail projects. the bad examples are compelling, and the former hub of public transport in central and eastern europe has also changed. in my country, hungary, in 2007, public transport only accounted for 40 percent of the total. reducing pollution caused by motor vehicles is a matter of traffic management, technology and economics. the spread of green technologies depends on the internalisation of environmental costs and the introduction of a carbon taxation system. at airports, differentiated take-off and landing charges are required, depending on the emissions of the aircraft. free parking for green cars, reduced congestion and road fees, and lower vehicle taxes, levies and entry fees could trigger a spectacular transformation. health care costs from transportation are also staggering. it's not fair to make society pay for all of this. the costs of air pollution, noise pollution and the resulting accidents should be borne by transport, i believe. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. mr. chairman of the committee. we have accepted the commission's strategy in the hope that it will come to fruition. the only obstacle to this is the budgetary constraint. it can make it hard to start new things. the willingness of member states to pay has fallen below 1%, so that funds for new ideas can be found almost exclusively through transfers. but let's not do that without a thorough analysis of the programs running. let's see where we get more value for money and where we get less. we can't let lobby groups make our decisions for us. in the context of the parliamentary reform, new cooperation between the committees and the committee on budgets is being developed. this will provide a more thorough understanding of the purpose and benefits of the expenditure on each programme. although it's a painful decision, it's wiser to end some programs or not start them at all than to underfund them. a small budget is a waste of money. the commission, council and parliament need to work together to ensure that only programmes that can be funded and deliver real results are run. parliament is ready to join this in its political strategy for the year. thank you for your kind attention.
mr. president, i have to go. i want to draw your attention to two things. firstly, it is necessary to strengthen new forms of cooperation, between the member states and the union on the one hand, and between parliament, the council and the commission on the other, and to highlight positive examples of what can be achieved. the other important issue in this connection, which has always been of paramount importance to european socialists, is the question of a social europe, that is to say, the guarantee of prosperity, solidarity and security, which we call in short and simple 'social europe', and the earliest possible achievement of the lisbon objectives. and here i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that attention to the situation of women has been given very little importance in this programme, despite the limited social security for women in most member states and the prevalence of questionable forms of employment. so these are the two things that i want you to pay attention to in 2009. thank you very much.
mr president, science and technology are our real chances to get with the global competition. for many centuries, our continent has been the centre of scientific and technological development, and european science has always been international. there has been an intensive exchange of ideas and visits by scientists, even in the times of the iron curtain, and the scientific community is almost borderless these days. setting up the european institute of innovation and technology is an important step to keep on with this ancient tradition of our continent. i highly welcome it and, of course, i welcome the excellent report by my colleague mr paasilinna. on behalf of my government, nation and scientists, i offer budapest as a seat for the eit headquarters. our achievements in life sciences, in the combat against climate change and in environmental studies are the best arguments. but my home city, budapest, could provide a pleasant and exciting atmosphere as well.
in writing. the information and technological revolution, the post-industrial socio-economic transformation, has shaken science, economics and politics out of their chippersky dreams in most countries of the world, and attention has increasingly turned to understanding what makes a town, a larger region or a country successful. the key to success is creativity, the creative force, the new idea, which can be the basis of all development. creativity becomes innovation when it is realized. it is hoped that the european parliament will have such an innovative product as the european institute of innovation and technology, whose primary objective will be to develop the eu's innovation capacity by bringing together representatives from higher education, research and industry. the eiti can play a huge role in restoring the global recognition of european innovation and counting on european industry and researchers. the hungarian capital has also entered the competition to host the european institute of innovation and technology. i am confident that my country, with its government's commitment to research and innovation, its research infrastructure, its previous role in scientific development and its hospitality, can be a good host for the institute. let me ask you to support me in the competition for the eiti headquarters, in the words of nobel prize winner albert szent-györgyi, who said: "hungary is a small nation, but as far as the grey matter is concerned, it is a great power".
mr. president, i have to go. my dear mrs fischer-boel, i have to ask you to come with me. the 2% increase in the milk quota proposed in the report concerns several member states. hungary is not affected by this, because my country uses only 70% of the milk quota, and we are in solidarity with those member states - poles, others - who need to increase the milk quota. in addition to the quota increase, we must prepare for what the commissioner proposes in 2015 to abolish the milk quota permanently, and therefore we must develop support mechanisms that will make a real contribution to quality milk production. the technical and technological backlog in some countries is a particular problem, and it would be good if community funds could help technological development in countries such as hungary or other new member states where they cannot use the quota. the development of agricultural innovation is very important in raising quotas, the price increase of feed crops is a big problem, and there is a specific problem, which mrs fischer-boel, no one can blame, is that the processing industry in hungary is unfortunately not owned by milk producers, and this means a huge competitive disadvantage. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear colleagues, i would like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her excellent report, which has been worked out with great care. there is no doubt that the european union must respond adequately to the growing global demand for a significant increase in milk quotas. the proposed 2% quota increase, which would be introduced in all member states at the beginning of april 2008, could perhaps help the eu sector to take advantage of the global demands. however, we must solve the milk quota problem without creating another problem. i would like to emphasise that in addition to meeting real market needs and increasing the choice, the improvement of the situation of producers who are already in difficulty must be promoted. care should therefore be taken to balance the social, environmental and production impacts of quota increases, in particular with regard to support for producers in less-favoured areas. the provision of a fair price for both producers and consumers is essential to internal market mechanisms. with the quota system due to be abolished after 2015, we need to think now about how to help producers to be efficient and profitable in their businesses. thank you for your attention.
thank you, sir. the increase in milk quotas is premature and risky in the current market situation for two reasons. firstly, the market outlook is not nearly as favourable as the european commission assumes. recent developments have demonstrated the risks of quota increases. the increase in the price of milk products has been welcomed by consumers in europe and beyond. consumption decreased by 10-30% in several countries and imports of chinese milk powder decreased. as a result, the purchase price of milk in hungary, for example, has fallen by 10-20% in recent weeks. the main reason may be that meat prices have not kept pace with other food prices, so consumers are eating meat instead of rising dairy prices to meet their protein needs. on the other hand, there are significant unused milk quotas in many member states. the increase in the quota would prevent producers in those member states from exploiting their opportunities and could even lead to a reduction in production in those countries, as producers in the member states using the quota would buy the livestock needed to expand production from those countries. so for now, there's no need to increase the quota, let's wait and analyze the situation. if price increases and demand growth continue over the longer term, let's return to the question.
we're going to discuss one of the most important agricultural reports of the last four years, because it's more than a health check or a medical examination. mrs fischer-boel is a liberal-radical, mr goepel is a christian-democrat-liberal, i am a socialist-liberal, we must radically renew the common agricultural policy from 2014. and in this health check, this health check, there are a lot of ideas that are going to be valid from 2014. the flat rate nature of direct payments, the territorial nature of direct payments, the nature of modulation, the transfer to the second pillar, the need to develop a risk management system. and the ceiling is very important. i agree with mrs fischer-boel and mr goepel. i would like to see the queen of england not get that much, there are a lot of estates in hungary right now, but we have to find a system that doesn't allow us to circumvent this limitation, so we have to solve this problem in the future. thank you very much.
in writing. – of course it is of the utmost importance to clearly stress in the framework of this report the necessity to maintain direct payments not only in the case of climate-related crisis or market failures but also to balance fairly the high european standards in terms of environmental, animal and consumer protection. nevertheless, it is our duty to consider seriously the situation of the least-developed agricultural producing countries while reviewing the criteria under which direct payments will be made in the future under our common agricultural policy. moreover, we have to acknowledge the difficult situation faced by most of the new member states’ agricultural sectors requiring specific attention and further investments mainly in restructuring and modernisation of the sector. finally, i would like to point out that it is essential while addressing the cap health check that the emphasis should – following the recent crises – be on guaranteeing food safety and supply for our citizens by ensuring sufficient food-stocks.
in writing. there is a widening gap in employment between urban and rural areas. disadvantages are particularly acute for rural women. they have less favourable chances of social integration, employment, access to childcare, education, health and social services. they are one of the most vulnerable groups in society, increasingly at risk of poverty and marginalisation. even if they can get settled, their earnings are significantly lower than those of their urban counterparts. the cumulative emergence of social disadvantages creates social tensions, since it is precisely in the most disadvantaged municipalities that the social care system is most deficient and the infrastructure deficiencies are greatest. the role of agriculture, with its short-term benefits and lower standard of living, preserves the tense employment situation of the countryside. the solution is to work together, and so local authorities, governments and the european community have a responsible role to play. complex containment programs are required. opportunities for rural people to catch up should be created through the creation of alternative jobs, infrastructure developments, the launch of market-oriented training and retraining programmes, support for business start-ups, and the establishment of border and cross-border projects. it is inevitable that catch-up programmes will be tailored to the specificities of each rural area. this can ensure that territorial differences are continuously reduced.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, christa klaß, on her report, which highlights the difficulties faced by women in rural areas in the labour market and in other areas of life. among the most disadvantaged and those living in the worst conditions, we must mention the roma women, a significant number of whom live in villages and small towns. several studies have shown that roma women are the most vulnerable group in the european union, with a shockingly low life expectancy compared to the majority of society and unemployment rates many times higher than average. it is therefore necessary for member states to develop and implement policies that improve the general living conditions of women in disadvantaged regions and to promote both employment and self-employment for women in disadvantaged and socially excluded regions through the creation of businesses, in line with the recommendations of the report. in particular, roma women could benefit from support from member states and the european commission for socially conscious business models involving disadvantaged and disadvantaged groups. it is also welcome that the report places a strong emphasis on the collection of reliable statistical data, as data collected and processed by gender and ethnicity are essential for the elimination of indirect and multiple discrimination and for the assessment of progress in education, housing, health and employment. thank you, thank you.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is officer fischer-boel. my fellow officers. in a world of climate change, rising energy demands and energy prices, reducing energy dependence and consumption, and diversifying energy sources, is an absolute priority, a key interest of the union. the increasing use of renewable energy sources is an integral part of this. we need to diversify, and it's worth it, within renewables. in the field of renewable energy sources, different countries have different capacities, which we should exploit to the fullest. biogas has a huge potential and a great future as a renewable energy source, for a number of reasons listed in the report we are discussing today. first and foremost, ladies and gentlemen, the main raw material for biogas is animal manure, and its processing for environmental purposes and energy production can be linked. this is one of the most important benefits of biogas production, although of course biogas can be produced not only from animal manure but also from municipal sludge, slaughterhouse waste and power plants. biogas is a multifunctional energy source: it can be used for electricity, heating, cooling and drying. the compressed biogas is suitable for the propulsion of cars, public transport vehicles and can be fed into the natural gas network after proper purification. biogas production is therefore a major opportunity for european energy production in this sense. among other things, if we look at the possibility of producing biogas from animal manure, we could produce 14 times more than we are producing at the moment. this is a very serious potential, because from an environmental point of view, we know that we cannot put animal manure on the land without proper processing, because that would be very serious environmental damage. there was a debate in our committee about whether biogas production, when it uses plant-based products, is not a competitor to food production. the european commission has shown that this is not the case in europe today, and we hope it will not be, with the second generation of power plants. this may be a problem globally, in brazil, in the united states, but it's not a problem in europe today, and hopefully it won't be a problem. the other debate in this regard is how do we regulate it? the current regulation, both at national and eu level, is extremely complex, over-regulated, which is why i proposed a biogas directive in the report. however, i have been assured by the european commission officials, and in consultation with the european people's party, that there is no need for a separate biogas directive, but that a directive on renewable energy sources is being prepared, and that the biogas problem can be solved within this framework. i would ask the commission to pay particular attention to the renewable energy directive, to use the suggestions in my report. my fellow members of the house of representatives! in my reply, i would like to thank the danish institute for its help and all those who have contributed to this. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, madam president. officer, please. my fellow officers. in today's globalized world, we face more and more challenges. these include climate change, increasing poverty, energy efficiency and security, and the use of renewable energy sources. we must therefore not only respond to the challenges facing the union, but also try to address the difficulties of the 27 countries through coordinated policy measures along the lines of a common strategy for sustainable agriculture. in particular, in this light, i welcome the initiative of my colleague mr tabajdi csaba on biogas and sustainable agriculture and congratulate him on his excellent report. i think it is important to have an eu renewable energy directive, which will bring eu regulation and national policies, eu and national regulation, into line. biogas produced in integrated agricultural facilities is one of the most important sources of bioenergy. however, the establishment of biogas plants requires resources. to exploit the potential of biogas, it is appropriate to coordinate the opportunities offered by cohesion policy, agriculture, rural development and the framework programmes and to encourage investment in and maintenance of biogas plants. efficiency should be the primary consideration in the allocation of aid, and if this is the case, then today it would be worthwhile to support almost only the production of electricity. but there are many more uses for it, and we need to focus on research and development, innovation, to expand the range of effective uses. in addition to union aid, favourable conditions should be created in the member states to facilitate the establishment and operation of biogas plants, for example by providing price support to member states or by other measures to promote the use of the new energy source. the additional advantage of biogas as an energy source is that it has a significant value-adding potential in farms and rural regions, helping to increase the economic viability of these areas, and it is therefore important to ensure that disadvantaged regions can also exploit these opportunities. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. - it must be a woman. madam president! thank you for the debate. clearly, the debate today has confirmed that neither biogas, bioenergy nor renewable energy sources are miracles in themselves, but they are extremely important in diversifying energy. secondly, biogas is still expensive today, as mr kuc, my colleague and many others have said, so technological development is needed. first of all, we need the state support from the rural development fund, as commissioner fischer-boel said. the third is extremely important. it was not clear - i say this to mr parish - that i will have an oral amendment tomorrow, in which i will withdraw my proposal for a directive on biogas and biowaste and propose it in the framework of the single renewable energy directive. i have agreed this with mrs fischer-boel, her colleagues and the european people's party. the fourth thing is the deadline: of course we'll be flexible in that. i would like to point out to mrs mcguinness that the procedure is extremely bureaucratic today, in the most exemplary country - not because she is danish - in denmark too it takes five years from the idea to the plant being handed over, there are countries where it takes ten years. finally, my dear avril. i have the danish in my hand and again not because of the excellent study by the danish agricultural advisory service national center. it was easy to write this report. i'm going to send it to dear avril, where "potential environmental problems", so there are very accurate calculations on those issues, on the escaped gases, and thank god it's reassuring to me, but i'm not an environmental expert. and finally, i would like to thank the danish institute. first of all, i would like to apologize to the commissioner for my bad danish pronunciation, to thorkild birkmoss, henning lynksø foged and jørgen hinge, who have produced this excellent study. i would like to thank nicolas nevez, a member of the committee on agriculture, and my colleagues david korány and tomáš bíró, and i would like to thank the two opinion-makers, werner langen and holm jens, for the opinions of the two associations' committees and for your constructive criticism. let's move on to biogas, even if it's not a miracle drug. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i debated about whether to speak in hungarian or english on this subject and then i realised that during the working process i used mainly english expressions on the given topic. the pse group had an intensive debate on the report and reached a compromise standpoint. some of us, including myself, had more radical amendments but the common position of the group is acceptable to us. i should like to welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur. pesticides, on the one hand, are an important and essential support to modern european agriculture but, on the other hand, the non-sufficient pesticide use and the use of harmful substances are responsible for health problems, fatal accidents and environmental pollution. decision-makers, authorities, local governments, farmers, ngos and citizens need proper information regarding pesticide use in order to reduce and prevent the negative impacts of pesticide use. therefore, this proposal for european statistics on pesticides is a positive step forward towards environmentally friendly agriculture. based on european statistics, we can monitor and evaluate the positive changes provided for in new pesticide legislation, i.e. the directive on pesticide use, the thematic strategy on sustainable pesticide use and the regulation on pesticide authorisations. from the beginning, i proposed and supported the inclusion of biocide products into this directive with the approval of the pse group. as in most cases, the active ingredient of the biocides is also used as a plant production product. biocides therefore have almost the same health and environmental impact. it does not make any difference after it has been released into the environment whether the substance was produced as biocide or as a plant production product. it is reasonable that, first, we collect the statistics on the biocide products only. business confidentiality is always a sensitive issue and, therefore, i am pleased we all accept that this directive takes into account the obligations under the aarhus convention on access to environmental information. that is why i supported the amendment that obliges the producers to provide proper information for the public. i hope that after the compromise among the political parties represented in this chamber, we will have a good first reading agreement from the council and within a few years, perhaps, i will be able to quote here in this chamber the useful data from the latest european pesticides statistics.
thank you, madam president. there is no doubt that pesticides against various pests and insects have fundamentally reformed european agriculture. however, these chemicals have adverse effects on human health and the environment. therefore, plant protection products that are particularly dangerous for humans should be withdrawn from the market and the use of chemicals for this purpose should be significantly reduced. however, this requires reliable statistics that are comparable and harmonised at eu level. we do not want to put a burden on consumers, on farms, that is not our goal. but it is important to include all non-agricultural uses of pesticides in the statistics and thus in the scope of future regulation. let me give you an example. in europe, stone scrap along railway tracks is sprayed with a pesticide, an isopropilamine salt, or rather washed. the eu's rail network is about 213,000 km long, and it is estimated that 900,000 litres of chemicals are sprayed on it every year. this, along with rainwater, enters our groundwater and surface water, eventually entering our bodies. we haven't paid enough attention to this, and that needs to change. the report before us is an integral part of the legislative package discussed last year and should be treated as such. the framework directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products, which was noted by my colleague, christa klaß, is the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides, written this year by belohorská, and the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, whereby hiltrud breyer, the european parliament's thematic coordinator, has set the direction for the future of the sustainable use of plant protection products. i congratulate the rapporteur and support the report. thank you very much.
in writing. the next spring european council will launch the next three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy. in view of climate change, energy challenges and stabilisation of financial markets. in a globalised world, effective management of all three issues is essential for europe's continued success. a common european union position as soon as possible is essential. we have noted the progress made in implementing the lisbon strategy since spring 2006 and support further efforts to bring targeted guidelines on issues affecting the general economy, but more importantly, on issues affecting all member states. it is becoming more urgent to reach agreement on climate and energy issues. to find an effective solution to europe's energy dependence, while maintaining the economic competitiveness of european products. we are seeing the rise of autonomous economic funds and we need to ensure that they are transparent and trustworthy in their activities. effective rules for the operation of these funds should be established. it is timely for the council to address the issue, and a common european approach must be developed as soon as possible in order to avoid the uncertainties that are currently being felt. last but not least, the council should adopt all possible and essential measures to strengthen the binding regulatory framework for the stability of financial markets. the crisis that could affect european citizens is not over, the worst may be yet to come! the motto of this council meeting is: we can't waste time.
in writing. today's debate was preceded by a sharp exchange of words over the past few days. it seems that the old worn-out liberal slogan of "let the market work, it will solve the problem" has been given new life. i am pleased to belong to a political family that has been the most vocal advocate of europe's social values and has reminded us that the protection of human life in dignity is a common duty binding the eu at 27. it is the responsibility of the commission and the council to ensure that europe's new challenges and increasingly significant risks strengthen solidarity. and together, decision-makers and the elected representatives of parliament must prevent the emergence of rivalries between poverty and the exploitation of the weak, children, immigrants, the elderly and families by the competition of the economy and the market. they must accept that they have a responsibility not only to those who work for a living, but also to those who are marginalized. the new europe, which has emerged from the lisbon process with a social face, cannot choose between economic market interests and human destiny. in this europe, the objective is not to improve the quantity and quality of jobs in general, but to ensure that the activity is sustainable and life-saving in the long term, which is also a requirement and should be seen as a common value. in comparison, social assistance is a help in transitional situations. if these values are truly the motivation for action, the 2009 elections could bring about a more united and humane european institutional system than ever before.
rapporteur. − mr president, we agreed to change paragraph 41 and not to propose a specific biogas eu directive but to integrate it into the draft renewable energy directive. the text is as follows: ‘proposes the comprehensive inclusion of the promotion of biogas in the framework of the draft renewable energy directive with special emphasis on the following elements:’. plus we agreed to delete point ‘(a)’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. i want to congratulate the schmidt reporter on a job well done. i think today is a breakthrough, because we were able to find a common parliamentary resolution with a broad consensus. i think it is important that we in the committee find a common voice here, and that we can preserve it in the plenary. we have succeeded in doing this because we have been able to achieve the goal of setting both a minimum and a maximum income tax threshold for anti-inflation purposes, but we have ignored the idea of abolishing all regulation. it is better to have an opinion than not to have one and leave the commission's proposal on the table. it works because everyone makes sacrifices. high tax countries would be willing to freeze their current high values for convergence purposes, while low tax countries would accept some increase over the current legislation in the field of diesel. this is particularly the case for the newly joined baltic and balkan states, which have lower price and income ratios and have faced a high inflationary, competitiveness and social challenge, especially before the introduction of the euro. this will be possible because parliament will end the cherry-picking, by the end of 2015 everyone will be in the proposed band, there will be no inexplicable series of individual exceptions. this will help to reinforce the seriousness of european legislation. i value discipline, so in 2010, we're asking the commission for an interim report on whether the catch-up people are actually catching up or just alibiing. this is because the council sees that the desired convergence is possible and the commission can take parliament's philosophy into account, namely minimum and maximum values, but the point is to reduce inflation and not to increase it. and in the case of excise duties, it can take this into account in a future commission proposal. thank you very much for your time, mr. president.
in writing. union support for district heating! i welcome the european commission's initiative for a new energy efficiency and renewable energy source. one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century is to ensure that we have an adequate supply of energy without compromising our environmental values, our strategic security or our competitiveness. the cheapest energy, of course, is the energy we don't use, so it's the energy we save. energy efficiency, in this age of energy quality, is a fundamental concern for everyone, both consumers and the wider community. the left-wing view is that energy conservation, energy efficiency, is also a social issue, because often the poorest people waste the most energy. this is particularly true for residential homes in the new member states, such as hungary, where they use more than twice as much energy per square metre as in western europe. it is therefore important to provide community support for the modernisation of outdated district heating systems in eastern europe. district heating is in principle an energy-saving system, with the particular advantage of being easily convertible to renewable energy, which in the case of individual heating has to be solved per household. therefore, it is crucial to ensure that district heating receives union support. in addition, a single eu tax credit could be envisaged to help create energy saving investments and funds.
thank you, mr president. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! equal opportunities must be extended to prisoners. for example, women must be provided with different health and hygiene conditions than men. it is particularly important for women prisoners to maintain their family ties, and it also helps their social reintegration, as my colleagues have already said. in drug dependence and some other cases, psychological assistance is essential, and some member states have developed complex gender-oriented programmes to provide it. the other new member states should follow suit. women in prison have a harder time getting work. training programs in prisons can alleviate this problem and thereby reduce the risk of relapse. the report is excellent, i recommend it be accepted.
in writing. i would like to point out that while women make up approximately 4 to 5% of prison inmates in europe and the proportion of female prisoners is increasing in many european countries, sometimes even exceeding the number of male prisoners, prisons are still set up for men and tend to ignore the specific problems of an increasing proportion of women prisoners. the areas of greatest concern are health, the situation of mothers with children, and professional and social reintegration. statistics on female prisoners generally show low levels of education and lack of skills. if we want to ensure that the social integration of female prisoners is more stable after their years in prison, we should offer all prisoners the opportunity to acquire basic educational skills. however, in many european prisons, there are differences between the vocational training provided to women and the demands of the labour market. most prisons offer feminized vocational training limited to the development of knowledge and skills related to the cultural and social roles traditionally attributed to women. these skills, which are generally poorly paid, are not highly valued in the labour market, and this contributes to the persistence of social inequalities and may undermine social and professional reintegration. prison authorities should therefore be encouraged to provide, even in cooperation with external companies, high quality vocational training adapted to labour market needs, a variety of employment opportunities free from gender-based bias.
author. − mr president, i was one of the four members of the european parliament election observation mission in armenia and i fully agree with and endorse its findings concerning the presidential elections, namely that the election was mostly in line with the osce and the council of europe commitments and standards. the state authorities made genuine efforts to address shortcomings noted in the previous elections. allow me to use this opportunity to thank the commission’s delegation in yerevan for all the assistance provided to us. the election was mostly in line with our standards, as i said, but further improvement and political will are required to address remaining challenges. i express my deep regret and concern at recent developments that have taken place in armenia, with violent clashes between police and opposition demonstrators that led to the death of eight citizens and over 100 injured. it goes without saying that we expect a transparent and independent investigation of the events that took place and the partial lifting of the state of emergency which was imposed after the event. even though it is a step in the right direction, it is not enough. i call on the armenian authorities to carry out a full lifting of the state of emergency. on behalf of my group, i call upon all parties involved to show openness and calmness, to tone down statements and to engage immediately in a constructive dialogue. last but not least, we regret and we are concerned at the recent unprecedented violation of the ceasefire on the line of contact with nagorno-karabakh and we strongly urge the parties to refrain from any actions that could undermine the negotiation process. we urge them to stay away from the loud and catastrophic power of arms, and we call upon them to exercise the silent and peaceful power of dialogue.
mr president, i have to disappoint you. i am not the author of this resolution and my group did not co-sign the resolution. the reason why my group did not do so is not to avoid having a discussion today. it is not because we think that we do not need to discuss these matters and not because we think there are no problems in russia, nor is it because we think we do not need to address the implications of the russian presidential elections, but rather it is because we strongly believe that, when we are dealing with russia – a world player, a member of the un security council and one of the major partners of the eu – we need an extensive and well-prepared plenary debate to take place. russia is not only a close neighbour for us, it is also a strategic partner. we want to have a broad debate on our relationship where all significant issues will be addressed, from trade to investment – which is booming – and energy, democracy, and also human rights. there are many different opinions on russia, but i think everybody agrees that russia is a key partner for us in tackling regional conflicts and global challenges, and that much remains to be done to develop the full potential of our relationship. we need to be able to have an extensive exchange of views in this house, but also with the commission and council, on how to formulate a pragmatic approach cooperating in issues where we can, and disagreeing on issues where we cannot cooperate. it is more than obvious that it is not possible or appropriate to deal with this significant and important issue in a time slot of 20 minutes on a thursday afternoon, and this is the reason why my group cannot support the draft resolution and the reason why my group will abstain in the vote later on.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. accession negotiations with croatia slowed down at the beginning of the year, and the process seemed to be stalling. hopefully, this will be over now, and the negotiations can take on new momentum. the decision of the croatian parliament to suspend the application of the fisheries and ecological zones to member states was a major help in this respect. croatia has delivered commendable results in recent years: it is an undoubtedly functioning democracy, a functioning market economy and is implementing the provisions of the stability and association agreement. but there are also, undeniably, serious problems that need to be solved. i would mention first of all the delay in judicial reform - it cannot be delayed any longer. i believe it is important to strengthen the fight against corruption, and this should not only extend to minor cases but also to the 'highest level' of players, as croatia has not been able to show much in this area so far. improve the efficiency of the use of community aid, and embark on important structural reforms. i would like to stress the position and role of shipbuilding, which needs to be reorganised. if croatia does all this, it should be able to conclude the negotiations in a timely manner by the deadline set in the report and should receive all the assistance it needs to do so. the accession process of croatia is of regional significance. he's way out of his league. if croatia's accession is successful, it will be both a model and an inspiration for the other countries of the western balkans. therefore, a swift and successful conclusion of the negotiations is both a shared responsibility and a shared interest of croatia and the european union. i hope you live with that responsibility. finally, i would like to congratulate mr hannes swoboda on his excellent reporting. thank you, mr president.
thank you, mr president. as chairman of the joint parliamentary committee, i consider that the recent period has been a positive turning point in croatia's euro-atlantic integration process. a few weeks ago, commissioner barroso outlined a roadmap to conclude accession negotiations by autumn 2009, and last week croatia received an invitation to join nato. well, both developments are an acknowledgement that croatia is on the right track and that the international community is rewarding the government's efforts. it is no coincidence that the eurobarometer in croatia has finally reached above 60% again after a long time. i myself consider it a remarkable and wise decision by our croatian friends to withdraw from the application of the no-fishing zone to eu member states in the interests of eu membership. the sanader government also took a moderate stance on the issue of kosovo's independence, when it sided with the majority of eu member states in recognising kosovo's independence. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the fact that the serb minority in croatia has been given the position of deputy prime minister in the current cabinet contributes greatly to the stability of the region and to peace between the nationalities. i think it is unfair that the slovenian prime minister has said that he does not consider croatia's accession to the eu or its veto to be out of the question because of the border issue between the two countries. i believe that eu enlargement and the fate of a nation should not be tied to the resolution of a bilateral border dispute. the report conveys a positive message in that it acknowledges the progress made by the country in the stability of the western balkans region, the country's economy, ensuring eu competitiveness, institutional reforms and the transposition of eu legislation. it does not leave out the positive aspects but also the challenges ahead: reforming the justice system, tackling organised crime, reducing corruption, completing the return of refugees, and resolving or reducing bilateral tensions. i would like to congratulate mr swoboda on his report.
madam president, i am very disappointed at the current relations between the west and macedonia. frankly speaking, the people of macedonia deserve far better treatment from us. with the independence of kosovo and the recent failure of nato accession, the situation is even more complicated. in macedonia there are separatist elements on one side and nationalists on the other who try to challenge the stability of the country, and the bucharest decision does not help the situation at all. but perhaps our macedonian friends can learn at least one lesson from bucharest. it is not enough to get the support of the us. many decisions depend on the common accord of the member states, not only in the european union but also in nato, and any member state may use its veto. in the light of the latest events macedonia should reconsider its standpoint on exempting the us from the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. many mistakes were committed on both sides – by us and the macedonian politicians – but we cannot punish ordinary people for our mistakes. that is why at least in the field of visa liberalisation we should act quickly, assisting the macedonian people to travel, learn and have closer contacts with everyday european life. three and a half years ago when i was elected vice-chairman of the eu-macedonia joint parliamentary committee, i had many optimistic plans on how to improve our relationships. very few of these ideas were realised. i hope at least in the field of visa liberalisation we can make a step forward.
in writing. – without any doubt, since the accession negotiations started, croatia has made decisive efforts to comply with the requirements of the acquis communautaire. we are indeed glad to notice that a number of new negotiation chapters have been opened. the accession of croatia should become a driving example for all other candidate and potential candidate countries in the western balkans. despite the substantial efforts made by croatia to meet eu standards, there are still areas where attention should given such as: the fight against corruption and organised crime, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal, the fight against all forms of discrimination (especially with regard to the roma and national minorities), the sound use of community funds, environmental protection measures and public administration reform. these points are essential, as further developments in the above areas would indeed bring greater stability to the country and to the region as a whole. it is clear that the stabilisation of the western balkans through the europeanisation process should remain a top priority objective, for which the finalisation of the accession of croatia will definitely be a major step forward.
hungarian citizens who moved from romania to hungary and retired after 2007 following romania's accession to the eu have still not received their pensions for years worked in romania. under the agreement in force between romania and the other member states of the union, the romanian authorities should pay the pensions of the persons concerned directly after 1 january 2007. however, the romanian side has not done so for months and hungarian citizens who retired after romania's accession in 2007 receive only their share of the pension due to hungary. the romanian authorities tend to delay the settlement of cases, whereas the relevant eu directives should be in force in romania. as the european commission is responsible for monitoring compliance with eu directives, i ask the commission to look into what is happening in romania in the area of pension determination and payment and to call the attention of the romanian authorities to the problem as soon as possible. it's no consolation that these pensioners are winning their case in luxembourg. thank you very much.
after kosovo, you have tibet. in both cases, the violent, colonial policies of nationalist-communist police states led to bloodshed. in both cases, the denial of the right of peoples to self-determination has brought about a crisis that threatens the peace of the whole world. the nobel peace prize winner, the dalai lama, has exposed the cultural genocide and demographic aggression against the tibetan people. these methods are also well known in former communist romania. ceaușescu also considered the oppression of minorities to be an internal romanian matter, as china has said in the case of tibetans. the european parliament should join pope benedict xvi in standing up against injustice, hatred and violence and in taking action to ensure the territorial autonomy of tibet. we expect the dalai lama and the pope of rome to tell the world here in the house of representatives of europe that there can be no peace without justice.
thank you, madam president, and welcome to the new commissioner. cancer is the second most common cause of death. in hungary, we were the world's leading cancer mortality in 1993 and 2003, with lung, bowel and breast cancer being the most common. we know the causes: unhealthy diet, lack of exercise, contraceptives, alcohol, smoking, and environmental damage. we know that the most cost-effective way to reduce cancer is prevention, yet there are some member states, like hungary, that have only given money this year for oral cancer screening, breast cancer screening and cervical cancer screening, and not for anything else. 6 to 8 weeks should be allowed for ct, mri screening and treatment. i hope that this report will open the eyes of the member states - and of hungarian politics among them - and help the ongoing legislative debate on tobacco control. thank you very much, and welcome back to the officer.
thank you very much, madam president. i too would like to say a few words about the importance of prevention. smoking was mentioned in this discussion. smoking is perhaps a good example of how a social resistance can be built, and today it's - if i may put it that way - not cool, not trendy to smoke in many places. but there are other causes of cancer that we don't have this healthy social resistance to yet. chemical pollution, air pollution, is one of the major causes of cancer. but even in the field of environmental protection, there is not the kind of social awareness that would make us understand that certain chemicals need to be removed from our bodies, that excessive traffic in a city is unhealthy for city dwellers, that we need to change our whole life to reduce toxins and pollution. so i want to make it clear to us that fighting cancer, living a healthy life, and protecting the environment are all intertwined. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the pse group. there are many areas where the objectives of the sixth environmental programme are lagging behind. i'd like to mention just two. the air in our cities is polluted, unhealthy. in many cities, the objectives of the urban environment strategy seem very far off in the absence of community legislation. the commission must therefore come up with legislation that defines the framework for urban environments and urban transport throughout the union, otherwise our citizens will continue to suffer from bad air and other pollution. implementation of the water framework directive is also stalled. without harmonization of industrial regulations and rural development and agricultural policies, our waters will continue to be polluted. as the foaming of the hungarian river rabah, polluted by austrian tanneries, shows, current regulations are not able to prevent water pollution. the member states and the commission must do everything possible to ensure that the water framework directive and the flood protection directive are respected by all. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, madam president. let me start by saying that i don't agree with the implementation of the sixth environmental action programme going as planned. moreover, in many cases, specific quantitative and qualitative objectives and timetables are missing, not only in the action programme but also in the thematic strategies. there is no doubt that the implementation of the sixth action programme is lagging behind, its key environmental objectives have not been achieved and the implementation of legislation is stalled in the member states. let me give you four specific examples of this. firstly, there is no specific legislation on indoor air. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the principles of non-discrimination and equal treatment. we should at least start with sample projects. secondly, the implementation of the natura 2000 network directives is also stalled. there would be a need to disseminate best practice and to take financial action against polluters. i myself have approached the commission with a complaint about the pollution of natura 2000 sites, but the commission has just sat by and did nothing. thirdly, there has been a dangerous increase in the illegal dumping of hazardous and municipal waste on the territory of another country. africa, asia are often the targets of european waste - this is unacceptable. how is it that several german states illegally take thousands of tonnes of waste to eastern europe and then refuse to return it? see the case of bavaria. fourthly, what happened to the fine principle of preventing cross-border pollution? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the river is full of foam, i have spoken about this issue half a dozen times, and i have even lodged a complaint. it is useless, the river is foaming, the commission is sitting with folded hands. even the best principles are useless if they are not followed. the commission is the guardian of the union's laws, and it is time for the guardian to do its job and not allow the member states to enforce the laws they have agreed to. thank you very much.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would also like to congratulate mr. potočnik and mr. rübig. eurostars is an excellent tool for achieving the lisbon objectives, for increasing competitiveness, for strengthening innovation. r&d smes, which spend at least 10% of their turnover on r&d, are key players in this area. hungary is a member of this programme, and the interest is huge. more than 200 companies met the criteria and applied, but the problem is that the member states have not set aside enough money. in hungary, for example, only half a million euros is available, which is enough to support 2 to 3 projects. so i think that member countries should definitely increase this resource, or they should achieve that we spend at least 3% of gdp on research and development, to be competitive on a global scale. i think eurostars and eureka are both excellent tools for this, so congratulations again.
madam president, i am pleased to welcome the valuable report of mr graça moura. the european year of intercultural dialogue should highlight the crucial role of culture in strengthening the sense of european identity. as a hungarian from romania, i would like to draw the attention of the member states to the support for minority and endangered cultures in europe. i mention the ancient culture of the hungarians in romania, the tsangs and szekels in moldova, the macedonians in greece and bulgaria, the romanians in serbia, and the basques in spain. the council of europe's recommendation, adopted on the basis of the report on the kangaroos by tytti isohookana-asunmaa, member of the finnish parliament, is exemplary in that it calls for the preservation of the kangaroos culture, which is on the verge of extinction. in the context of eu external relations, we must also pay attention to tibet, occupied by the chinese communist dictatorship, where, as the dalai lama put it, cultural genocide is afflicting one of the world's oldest cultures. thank you, sir.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! i welcome the commission's commitment to a cultural work programme to develop a european strategy, both in the eu and in relations with third countries. it is important that special attention be paid to promoting diversity and intercultural dialogue in the year of cultural dialogue, as the lisbon strategy will not achieve its fundamental objectives unless culture is treated as an essential aspect of the strategy. i regret to note that the report pays little attention to the relationship between culture, minorities, nationalities and ethnicities, and between each other and the country in which they live. we cannot ignore the fact that the arts play a prominent role in the integration of minorities, but they can also provide social support for talented but poor artists. by supporting the arts and artists, we can also give a perspective to transnational but poor groups such as the roma, who have a centuries-old traditional culture that has been preserved. it is also necessary to ensure the openness and transparency of the rules on (online) trade, creating fair market access, thereby helping european cultural industries to realise their potential, in particular the audiovisual and music sectors. in addition to adequate consumer protection, we must tackle the roots of counterfeiting and piracy, while protecting the diversity of european culture through the rational and fair regulation of performance-based competition.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. let me briefly summarise the amendment to the regulation on the financial regulation of executive agencies with different tasks in the management of community programmes. this amendment was a joint work with the association committee and the committee on budgets under article 47 of the rules of procedure. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues mrs gräßle and mr mulder for their close and excellent cooperation. we have proposed a number of amendments to make the agencies work more smoothly, and to make the scope for democratic control of accounts and the money they manage wider and more precise. it is important to note that:- there is an urgent need to harmonise the deadlines for the discharge procedure for the agencies in the future;- the court of auditors also points out that persons responsible for accounting and audit tasks cannot participate in the implementation of the budget;- a list of experts and their remuneration should be attached to the budgetary and financial management report of the executive agency, with due regard for the protection of personal data;- external experts should be provided for the executive agencies. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. the european commission's green paper on mitigating the negative effects of climate change is a welcome development. however forward-looking the eu's proposals to combat climate change may be, we must live with the consequences of changing climate today. the available data indicate that some countries are more affected by the rate of accelerating warming. these include hungary, where the rate of change has been well above average in recent decades. the population was able to see firsthand that this was not just an abstract phenomenon: the number of droughts increased, the amount of rainfall decreased, and this had a significant impact on agricultural production. perhaps the most spectacular manifestations of climate extremes in the carpathian basin have been the record floods of the past decade. we are convinced that flood protection is one of the areas where urgent and consistent action is needed. the european union and the member states must pay greater attention to ensuring that the ever-smaller and ever-larger rainfall does not simultaneously burden rivers. to this end, natural water retention potential should be mapped in flat areas and the risk of flooding reduced by afforestation in mountainous areas. let's hope that decision-makers don't wait for the shocking news of the next flood to take action.
mr. president, i have to go. in slovakia, serbia, and romania, hungarians have often been beaten in the streets in recent years simply for speaking their native language. this weekend, another bloody attack took place in transylvania, in which the victims were journalists zágy tibor, ambrus istván and jános fancsali, who were attacked from behind by three romanian youths in the street at night and brutally beaten. they are bozgor, they are patriotic, they mock them, they shout: "get out of the country with the hungarians!" at the same time, on saturday, k. attila was stabbed in the main square of szabadka, serbia. in this place you remember the anti-hungarian demonstration of march 15, 2008, organized by the fascist romanian organization called new right, in kolozsvár, where a hungarian youth was also beaten that day. it is urgent that we join our romanian brothers in the fight against violent nationalism. at the same time, we rightly expect the romanian authorities to identify and punish the perpetrators with an exemplary punishment.
mr. president, i have to go. serbia will choose on may 11. we all know that the western balkans cannot be stable without the stability of serbia. the signs are extremely negative, kosovo, the loss of 16% of the country's territory, nationalism is overshadowing everything, and it is likely that the nationalists, the radical party, koštunica and the socialist party, the party of milošević, will form a coalition. serbia is not going to europe. at the same time, the european union is making all the mistakes it can make. i beg you not to speak to javier solana until then, because every statement made by javier solana is going to ruin the chances of the pro-european tadić party. it was a huge mistake to let haradinaj, the albanian guerrillas, out of the hague now. it was a huge mistake to announce the trade agreement with kosovo now, a huge mistake to mention the saa that the netherlands prevented in january, to do good for the union, to help facilitate the visa and try to save what can be saved, the democrats, the european parties finally try to help the union. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for your time, mr. president. i am sure that this report by jutta haug will have the support of parliament. while i congratulate you on your work, allow me to highlight a few thoughts. one is that parliament is really struggling to find a budget to meet the new challenges. we just heard about that. we support the priority role of growth and job creation, which can or should be a key element in the development of the less-developed regions, among others. i am very pleased that the commission is represented by the commissioner responsible for this area, regional development. a very important element of the report is that european citizens need to be informed about what we are spending their money on and we are committed to spending that money in a way that is sure to create value for money. we are waiting for the lisbon treaty to be approved, and we cannot really behave in such a way that when it is approved at the end of the year, the agreement that will govern our work in the coming period will suddenly appear like a rabbit from a magic cylinder. so we have to work on that now. the epp votes in favour of this report and hopes that its amendments will also be supported, with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. i do not agree with the commissioner that we are negotiating on time. the preliminary budget must be ready, and we will therefore agree only if we have already asked for things which the commission supports. how we are to do this in the future is still to be worked out, so that parliament can get its message to the commission sooner. thank you for your kind attention.
thank you very much, mr. president. as rapporteur for the 2009 budget in the committee, i would like to thank mrs jutta haug and mr surján lászló for the thorough preparation they have done so far. to do a good job, we need to work in a disciplined and coordinated way, because in many ways we will be on new paths. as far as the environmental aspects of the parts of the eec that have been identified so far are concerned, we can be basically confident. i welcome all three of the commission's initiatives. as a member of the central asia delegation, i am particularly pleased to see your strong support for the new central asia strategy of the european union. i also welcome the intention to promote the practice of sustainable development in developing countries, in particular with regard to its biodiversity and energy aspects. it's not only our moral duty, it's our interest. i hope that my colleagues and i will be able to propose many good pilot projects for funding, as this is a direct demand of the citizens. thank you very much.
in writing. we ought to prepare for the changes set to take place in 2009 with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the european elections as they will have a major impact on the budget. the new elected parliament and designated commission will indeed have to deal with new budget procedures. it is therefore necessary to present for 2009 a transparent and viable budgetary framework and priorities. among other aspects, it is essential to ensure that the budget matches the priorities with sufficient resources. in this respect, i am pleased to note that our rapporteur, mrs haug, puts the emphasis on the importance of the principle of solidarity as one of the cornerstones of european policies, especially with regard to cohesion and structural policies. with new challenges ahead and the new inter-institutional balance within the institutional triangle it is even more essential to ensure coherence between policy priorities and the financial resources that are made available. there are growing concerns that the re-prioritization toward competitiveness, climate change or sustainable development would be made at the cost of other priorities budgets. adding new priorities in the future should at no cost hamper the achievement of other political priorities such as solidarity.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the romanian uprising against causescu in timişoara, it started from our church. i experienced communism firsthand. i therefore welcome the fact that the european union is once again turning its attention to the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. the world still has a double standard when it comes to crimes against humanity committed under national socialism and communism. unlike the nuremberg trials, the trial of communism has still not taken place. both dictatorships together suppressed freedom, human rights, churches, and the lives of national minorities. many human and social tragedies are linked to communism and fascism. the process of historical, political, human and moral restoration, which has just begun, must continue. the tismăneanu report in romania is an example in this respect. i am convinced that the change of regime that began in 1989 cannot be complete without facing the past. the real european integration of the former communist countries also requires the abolition of dictatorship and justice and reparation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, officer, please. ukraine and belarus play a key role in the eastern dimension of our neighbourhood policy. in the case of ukraine, the goal is democracy, market economy and consolidation of european orientation, and in the case of belarus, the goal is the democratisation of the country. the granting of travel facilities is an effective and efficient means of doing so. ukrainian citizens have been able to obtain visas under a simplified procedure since january 1, but most of them feel that their situation is more difficult than before, as they can reach their important destinations, poland, hungary, lithuania, with greater difficulties than before. this is perceived as a step backwards, as the eur 35 visa fee is a large sum and the administrative burden and the administrative procedure are extremely complex. in order to ensure the effective implementation of the visa waiver, the commission should be able to request the competent authorities of ukraine to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states. as far as belarus is concerned, we must make it clear that europe's problem is not with the belarusian people but with the oppressive system, so we want to make it easier for belarusian citizens to travel. this requires a reduction in the visa fee of eur 60, which is extremely high, since it corresponds to almost half of the average monthly income in belarus, and at the same time a reduction in the administrative burden, since these complex requirements are difficult to meet. this will help to ensure that the citizens of both ukraine and belarus feel closer to europe. thank you, sir.
many people die or suffer needlessly because they don't get a transplant in time. and many people would have no ethical problem with using their organs after death if they knew about the possibility, but in the absence of information, they don't donate their organs. of course, this is a matter for personal decision, and no one should override or force this decision. it would be important for citizens in different countries to know that, because of the different regulations in each country, not having a provision for the possible transplantation of their organs would mean that in some states it would be allowed and in others that it would be prohibited. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. illegal organ trafficking is one of the most heinous crimes that can ruin the entire transplant industry. this must be confronted with the utmost resolve, even if committed by the so-called allies of the west, for the cover-up of such crimes would be a collective disgrace.
thank you, mr president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! perhaps not everyone knows that the world's first organ transplant was performed by hungarian-born ulmann imre in vienna in 1902. the connection with the austrian capital has remained since then, so much so that despite the fact that both the personal and the inter-ethnic conditions were given, hungarian lung transplants are still performed in vienna. why not? so it costs about three times as much, and even the number of patients is limited. there is no doubt that transplant coordinators should be appointed in the intensive care units of european hospitals. there are currently 0 in hungary, we heard, and 156 in spain. my country is one of the last in europe for heart transplants, although our results are excellent, even in international comparison. the reason is the lack of donors, the lack of equipment, the lack of air transportation, and the lack of human resources. hopefully, this decree will help to eliminate these anomalies, since the problem is not in the heart but in the head. thank you very much, and i recommend that you accept the report.
in writing. i welcome the independent report by mr adamou on organ donation and trafficking. although unfortunately the expertise of the member states on this important issue varies widely, the use of human organs for transplantation has increased rapidly throughout the european union in recent decades. in western europe, there are now nearly 40,000 people on waiting lists, and as a result, the livelihood trade in organs is booming in poorer areas of eastern european countries. the european donor card can be a good solution to legal issues related to donation, but more serious action is needed to combat illegal and commercially motivated organ trafficking. given that, despite isolated attempts, there is no comprehensive register of available transplantable organs in many places, even at national level, it would be important to introduce a uniform eu transplant database, similar to the schengen system, accessible on the internet, and a medical certificate valid throughout the union. legally certified human organ transplantation facilities could access life-saving information in a matter of seconds, facilitate bilateral agreements, and protect the poorest and most vulnerable donors from becoming victims of the organ trade. the establishment of the database is essential to enable the bodies to be used in more than one country, and it is therefore essential that member states abolish their legislation prohibiting this as soon as possible. it is also important that organ donation remains strictly 'non-commercial' but that the conditions under which financial compensation may be granted are also defined.
, in writing. in europe, more than 100 million civilian volunteers work for the benefit of others and the public interest. in the uk, 38% of the total population and in poland 18% of the population are engaged in voluntary activities. voluntary activity is inseparable from active european citizenship, which can be seen as a basic principle of democracy at both local and community level. citizens also contribute to solving social problems through volunteering, their activities help to develop social awareness and skills. through the work of volunteers, different groups of the population can have the opportunity to catch up and integrate, while the elderly, for example, can participate in society, benefit from their life experience and feel useful for a longer time. voluntary activities are motivated by the fundamental european values of solidarity and responsibility. the usefulness of volunteering is also increasingly recognised within the eu and voluntary organisations are being more closely involved in decision-making processes. in recent years, the scope of voluntary work has become even more diversified. the interest in volunteering is growing, the demand is growing, but there is a lack of appreciation, limited financial resources, and a lack of infrastructure. that needs to change. in order to support voluntary work and increase its social acceptance, it is important to have a community of interest based on cooperation, dialogue, partnership, sharing of best practices and experience between the actors concerned, such as the state, businesses, trade unions and voluntary organisations.
thank you very much, mr. president. i'd like to deal with the report from the european agencies. the european parliament examines the management of the european agencies on an annual basis and relies on the work of both the european court of auditors and the european anti-fraud office to carry out this task. as a result of a long and thorough analysis and preparatory work carried out together, we have reached a decision on the management of the community agencies for 2006 and we are very pleased to recommend all agencies, in agreement with the european court of auditors, for adoption. this does not mean that we have not found errors in the management, but it does mean that we have not found errors of a degree that would impede acceptance. i would also like to point out that the groups in the committee voted by a very large democratic majority to recommend that the work of the agencies be accepted here in plenary, even if the rapporteur does not entirely agree with his own report. thank you for listening.
thank you very much, mr. president. ladies and gentlemen, in 2006, the european union spent 39% of its common budget, some €38.9 billion, on structural expenditure. the european court of auditors found in its annual report that the european commission had made a number of progresses in the use of the structural and cohesion funds and in overall control. financial absorption has clearly improved, but the report points out that at least 12% of payments for structural projects in 2006 were not reimbursable. this is almost eur 4 billion, and 20% of the projects were defective. over the years, a number of problems have arisen with the multi-level and shared management of the structural funds. the relatively high rate of detected irregularities and incorrect refunds is mainly due to the low efficiency of the member states' control systems and the control systems based on them. the biggest problem i see is that there is no uniform, universally accepted evaluation model, no necessary indicator or benchmarking system, and no effective measurement of projects. although the structural funds provide adequate resources for very important joint developments, the reduction in the number of misuses of public funds can only be achieved if the member states and the european commission act together in a consensus to reduce the illegal use of money. there is also a need to improve the effectiveness and harmonise the control systems of the member states. it is also essential that the commission makes its controls on structural expenditure more effective, applies the suspension and adjustment procedures and develops a new system of reporting by the member states, given that 40% of commission audits have been problematic. in the light of the above, our delegation proposes to accept the discharge. thank you for listening.
thank you, mr president. as the shadow rapporteur for the envi opinion on discharge 2006, i would like to thank jutta haug and the rapporteur for their thorough work. i believe that the work of our four agencies is very important and that their work undoubtedly helps the european parliament and the other eu institutions to do their job and thus improve the quality of life of our citizens. the european centre for disease prevention and control plays an important role in epidemiological surveillance and in the formulation of opinions on the risk of new and emerging epidemic diseases. perhaps this is also the reason that hungary has already become the first country in terms of immunity to epidemics this year, since we have the least number of people infected with diseases that can be prevented by vaccination. the work of the european environment agency is essential in the collection and synthesis of environmental information, and the european medicines agency plays a major role in the protection of public and animal health. i consider the agency's contribution to the development of new medicines to be particularly important. the european food safety authority provides essential support in the areas of food safety, animal health and plant health. it is important to note that all agencies have shifted their annual budgets, which is due to the complexity of the tasks, as the rapporteur points out. this is why it is worth putting more emphasis on this when planning for the future. i welcome the rapporteur's suggestions on the importance of internal control, on strengthening it, on the need to remedy the shortage of human resources that is arising here. finally, i would like to draw attention to the importance of the commission's work on clarifying the role of the agencies, which is now beginning. agencies are needed, but transparency and efficiency require clarification of their place in the governance of the union. thank you very much.
thank you for your time, mr. president. with today's expected vote on the 2006 discharge, we have reached the end of a long and tense process which can rightly be considered both special and a milestone in the history of the european parliament. it is special because this is the first time that the european court of auditors has confronted us with a 12% error in the structural funds, which the tabloid press, hungry for sensationalism, has of course immediately presented as a deficit of 4 billion euros. the cocobu responsible for the case carried out its task, with the help of the danish rapporteur, jørgensen, in full awareness of its political and professional responsibilities. the aim was not to create a sensation and a scandal with unforeseen consequences, but to explore the situation in a transparent way and to develop proposals that would guarantee the avoidance of future events. we have found a very good partner in the person of president siim kallas, whom i would like to thank for his work and i trust that in the future we will be able to solve such problems in a predictable way. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what is social tension in europe is human catastrophe on other continents. the impact of the food explosion is felt here in europe, primarily among the urban poor, but also among the middle classes. on the continent of europe, there are almost 100 million poor people in the union, and in my country there are almost 3 million people living below the poverty line, whose already unbalanced diet, which is low in meat and fruit, is being further degraded by the effects of price increases. the eu programmes already in place, such as the school milk and school fruit scheme, are therefore particularly important. the current crisis has shown that a new common agricultural policy is needed from 2013. the union must produce more and of better quality and help non-eu countries, primarily through know-how, knowledge transfer and the development of agricultural production, to solve this increasingly serious global problem. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? honourable president of the council, minister žerjav, president barrot, colleagues. the european parliament has consistently and strongly supported the galileo programme from the outset. this was the case last november, when the european parliament took a bold step to bring the programme out of the deadlock, and then in december, when funding for the gnss programmes was approved from the revised community budget. the regulation implementing the galileo and egnos gnss programmes is now being discussed following a successful informal trial run at first reading. financing entirely from the community budget requires a special responsibility towards the taxpaying european citizens and the correspondingly careful regulation. this is particularly true for funding, programme management, procurement procedures and security. we've learned a lot in the last few years as we've faced the problems. however, in terms of regulation, we have taken a completely new path, a new path, so to speak, because this is the first common european infrastructure that we are building together and that will be publicly owned by the community. financing: the european parliament notes that the cost of implementing the programme is eur 3.4 billion, which is provided by the budgetary authorities. it also calls on the commission to submit a proposal by 2010 on financing beyond 2013, and in particular on public liabilities. it is important to note that, for the economic success of the programmes, adherence to the timetable and the avoidance of further delays are of paramount importance. the pricing policy will be determined after a detailed analysis of the financing of the recovery phase, taking into account the high quality of the service provided to consumers. we have built the governance of the programme on a clear division of powers. the commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the programme as manager of the programme. its work shall be assisted by the gnss programme committee, in a comitological procedure. the european space agency is the so-called 'prime contractor' and it should be noted that a further guarantee of the success of the programme is the appropriate contractual agreement between the commission and esa. and after a long debate, the gsa is essentially the security function. the european parliament, the council and the commission recognised that new ways of working together were needed to make the programme a success. therefore, in accordance with the declaration in the annex to the regulation, we will in future monitor the implementation of the programme together on a quarterly basis, in the framework of the so-called galileo interinstitutional panel, and the annual review of the work programme. the rules on public procurement procedures were already of high importance in the november rapporteur's report and the essential elements of these were incorporated in the council proposal. we agree with the latter. with galileo, we promised new technology, development, new entrepreneurial opportunities and jobs, and in particular we promoted the participation of smes in front of entrepreneurs in the 27 member states. the regulations provide for that. the parliament's negotiating delegation, led by angelika niebler, president of the itre committee, and including representatives of the shadow rapporteurs from the opinion committees, presented the text adopted in the informal trilogue at first reading to the itre committee. the itre committee unanimously adopted it with one abstention. on this basis, we are now submitting the regulation to the ep plenary. finally, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency for its commitment to the programme, the expertise of the commission and the support of my colleagues which made it possible to reach an agreement. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. i cannot stress enough that the european engineers and developers have done an excellent job, and as the vice-president has announced, giove-b is ready to go. the european commission, personally vice-president barrot, after a year of painstaking work, put a new proposal to the negotiating table and the european community set up the new structure and provided the necessary funds. the galileo programme is ready for the new start, in other words, the project must now be implemented. more specifically, let us not be complacent, we have many and difficult tasks ahead of us. in conclusion, the gnss programmes are 'made in europe' programmes, not the business of one or another member state or one or another industrial company. please keep this in mind during the implementation. and in conclusion, mr president, allow me to make a personal comment: hungary, where i was elected in 2004, was not yet a member of the eu when the galileo programme was launched, nor was slovenia, so i am particularly pleased that we were able to work together at 27 in the new start, because galileo is a very important step towards a strong europe. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. officer, please! the secondment directive has been the subject of eu attention following several european court judgments. the court has spoken. of course, you can dispute what he said, but it's not worth it, because that would make his decision valid, and the court wouldn't have established a value order. we can see that these judgments have given rise to conflicting opinions in parliament, but i am glad that the commission has taken account of its responsibilities and has turned to the member states. this is all the more important because it helps to cool things down. the commission's previous failure to assess the transposition of the posting directive into national systems, which it had strongly called for in parliament's resolution two years ago, had unfortunately contributed to the heightened mood. there is thus no answer to the question whether the measures to protect workers in the member states are compatible with the posting directive, and in the absence of that answer we cannot say whether the posting directive is really working well or whether the rules of the services market need to be amended. there are no lessons to be learned from implementation, and so at most declarations can clash with each other. you wonder if this uncertainty is a source of populism or demagoguery. and are we not creating a political problem out of possible legal loopholes? so we may create political tension where we need only calm regulation. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the freedom of the services market has been achieved, with few exceptions, by the provisions of the law, but concrete steps are needed to enforce the law. we hope that the commission will take these concrete steps, because the court of justice cannot carry out a comprehensive examination of the legal file, that is the commission's job. and it will be the commission's job to initiate infringement proceedings if necessary. this is the way to achieve what commissioner spindla said, namely that we must act simultaneously and jointly for the sake of workers' rights and the social market. thank you very much.
in writing. it is not for nothing that the rain forests of latin america are called the lungs of the earth. our entire climate, and our future, depends on preserving the original extent of the rain forests that sustain life in brazil, colombia, ecuador, venezuela, and many other south american countries. and with it, the richness of biodiversity, flora and fauna. it is therefore important that cooperation between the european union and latin american countries focuses on environmental protection and appropriate climate policies. greedy profit, the clearing of rain forests and the planting of biofuel crops are all contrary to the basic interests of mankind. we must encourage our latin american friends to stop this destructive process. the best way to preserve the original natural values is to not disturb the indigenous communities, to let them own their lands and continue their natural way of life. our development and support policy must make mutual respect for environmental standards a basic condition.
mr. president, i have to go. i must reject, on behalf of hungary and all the new member states, the criticisms and accusations that have been made here. the old member states of the european union have abandoned the new ones. european solidarity has not worked either towards the new member states or towards greece, which is why all the critical remarks are incomprehensible. the european union's solidarity has not worked and does not work on this issue, and it is therefore extremely important that we have finally managed to settle this issue. it has been possible to identify the competence of the member states and the community in relation to visa waiver negotiations. we hope that this year hungary and several new member states will finally enjoy the same rights: visa-free travel to the united states as the old member states did. this debate shows that solidarity does not work in the european union. thank you for your attention.
i voted with some concern on the macedonian report. it is good that we are making new and new demands on macedonia, but are we doing everything we can to integrate the country into the euro-atlantic area? the independence of kosovo on the one hand and the veto of macedonia's nato membership on the other hand, have potential dangers. minority separatists and majority nationalists can easily upset the fragile balance in macedonia. the european union and the united states often interfere in macedonian internal politics, and we expect and demand many unpopular measures from macedonian leaders. this is a responsibility, and we have a responsibility for the stability and euro-atlantic integration of our small country. it would be good if we all took this responsibility seriously!
thank you, mr president. mr matsakis has already mentioned implementation problems, so let me give you a couple of examples. in europe and the carpathian basin, the challenge of protecting our forests is growing, with some being burned, others littered with garbage or simply stolen. in the carpathians, or sayolád, for example, 30-40% of the forest has already been stolen. illegal logging reduces biodiversity, causes erosion, and contributes to 20% of greenhouse gas emissions. to stop this, four of my colleagues and i are writing to the commission asking it to come up with legislation to ensure that only legally and controlled harvested timber and timber products can be placed on the union market. i ask my fellow members to support declaration 23 by signing it. conservation of biodiversity is an important public task. well, the hungarian government has such a disregard for natura 2000 sites that this week, in celebration of earth day, they're holding the central european rally, free after dakar, in natura 2000 protected areas. there was no environmental impact study, no recovery and protection plan, and no legal authorisation to organise the race. there is no revenue that can compensate for the environmental damage that has been caused. but we're not better off with our birds. two weeks ago, the european commission sent hungary its last written warning. it did so because it did not adopt national measures for the protection of wild birds. but to give you a few examples, i recently initiated the signing in my country of a voluntary agreement, unique in europe, to stop the destruction of birds by overhead electricity lines. in the project called "barrier-free sky", civil society, the electrical industry, and the government agreed to ensure that by 2020, birds in hungary could fly safely through the air by replacing wires, insulating walls, and other means. this agreement is a pioneering one, of great significance, and deserves european attention and support. thank you, sir.
we should finally have a meaningful debate on the use of genetic engineering in europe, because there is a debate on faith, and in many cases, hysteria. science cannot and should not be stopped. even after the population and food price explosion, we cannot ignore the possibilities of biotechnology, of genetic technology. without this, the green revolution cannot be complete. my biogas report, adopted in march, also shows that the ep has reached a consensus on the authorisation of gm crops for bioenergy production. in hungary, there is a consensus among the parliamentary parties on the preservation of gmo-free agriculture, but at the same time we must see that this is illusory. 85% of imported soybeans used for animal feed are already genetically modified. obviously, gmos are not a toy, the risks are huge. the key is therefore to set up a professional eu inspection body, free from the harmful influence of large companies, to examine gmo products in a scientifically sound and credible manner, to protect against risks and to allay unjustified fears. unfortunately, multinational companies dealing with gmos are reluctant to publish detailed documentation on their products, and are not partners in scientific research, even though this would be a basic requirement from a consumer protection point of view. but there's also a lot of misinformation, a lot of unscientific harassment from the anti-gmo community, which is why this debate is important. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the pse group. "the world can be different!" - that's what the leftists say, who think that our world can be changed. we must not get involved in casino capitalism, so-called development that destroys natural resources. the history of the 20th century, however, teaches us that utopias are doomed to failure without adequate economic and social backing. the green tax, the environmental foundation of all taxation policy, is a market-based, sustainable tool for a better and more livable world. as for the increased taxation of raw materials, the single energy tax could force us to reduce our dependence on energy imports, to drive less, to reinvent public transport, the electricity grid, the railway. if we shift the focus of taxation from labour income to consumption, we create a lot of new jobs and we give more importance to a way of life closer to nature and culture than to consumerism. emissions of pollutants, taxation of non-recyclable waste reduces pollution, the associated public diseases, reduces premature and unnecessary death. the transition to green taxation can also be seen as a peaceful revolution. of course, the level of taxation cannot be increased, because europe is already taxing too much. reducing energy consumption would also increase the competitiveness of our goods. green taxes can move us from the extremely materialistic world of the 20th century to a more environmentally friendly, more human-centric, more intelligent world. if there is one issue that should unite us, the european representatives of 27 countries, it is the issue of green taxation. the world can be different, but only through thoughtful and bold reforms.
in writing. in order to achieve environmental objectives, member states now favour almost exclusively direct requirements. this is despite the fact that a number of other regulatory instruments are possible. among these, we believe that market-based environmental incentives should receive priority attention. we believe that the market, competition and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive. the importance of market incentives lies in the fact that they achieve the environmental quality they set as an objective in a cheaper and more efficient manner. they may also contribute to the achievement of other social objectives. unfortunately, the european union has done little to promote market-based incentives. perhaps the emissions trading system is the only exception. it is therefore welcome that the green paper we are discussing is exploring the potential of these incentives. but it's worth adding that mapping is a long way ahead of us. the wider use of market-based regulators should be accompanied by the elimination of direct regulations that lead to significant inefficiencies. since economic incentives also have a revenue-generating effect, we need to examine how these instruments can trigger taxes, which are primarily labour-intensive. it is of particular importance that this subject be discussed in depth. we are convinced that ambitious eu environmental policy objectives cannot be achieved without the use of market incentives.
thank you, madam president. first of all, congratulations on your 10th birthday. the euro was a success, it was a stable money with low interest rates, it was well protected against speculation, and we were able to create many more jobs after the euro than before, we know that. this is why the euro is attractive to those who have joined but are not yet members of the euro area. discipline is very important, and independence of the banks is very important, and i'll sign it. i did. the eurozone cannot be an elite club, it cannot be a political elite club, and we cannot say that only those who have already achieved some real convergence can join. the euro is a tool for those who most need stability, the fight against speculation, cohesion, the fight against unemployment, to become truly european. so let's avoid orthodox theories, like the inflation criterion, and it's very important that there is uniformity, that there is a uniformity in the definition of the criteria. thank you very much, madam president.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. on behalf of the socialists in europe, i would like to thank rapporteur marco cappato for his balanced, thorough report and for his particularly good cooperation and openness. it is extremely important that the report should give greater emphasis to economic and social rights, as proposed by the socialists. if we are proud of social europe, regardless of party affiliation - populist, liberal, green, socialist - then it is very important that we hold others to account - rightly - for social rights. in china and russia, for example, hundreds of millions of people living in the countryside have no social security, no access to basic medical care, no pension. i think this is a basic human right and it needs to be given much more attention in the future. we are very proud that in your report there is much closer cooperation between the european union and the council of europe in the field of minority rights. the framework convention and the charter of languages are the defining documents for both the european union and the council of europe under the copenhagen treaty. at the same time, we have a big problem with the fact that there is no separate report on national minorities, there is no separate paragraph, because we - there is a commissioner - we will monitor kosovo and we will tell what to do with minority rights. and in our report, there's nothing but china and russia. so in the future, it would be good if the human rights report on this issue had a separate chapter on national minorities, roma and migrants, that is, new minorities. thank you for your attention.
in writing. it is a shocking fact that 82% of people with disabilities in developing countries still live below the poverty line and continue to face the most serious human rights abuses, including the denial of the right to life and inhuman or degrading treatment. the situation of children with disabilities is particularly worrying in this respect. the union is still far from having a uniform and effective policy for the protection and promotion of human rights worldwide. to make this more effective, we need to make significant progress in ensuring that existing eu human rights provisions are strictly enforced. the lack of these may be the reason why many women still face negative discrimination in the workplace today. roma women are in an even worse situation, suffering from double discrimination. in their case, an eu roma strategy and commission coordination would be an important step forward. i'm missing the report, so i would suggest reforming the right of assembly at the european level. we need precise definitions so that legal loopholes do not give way to the increasingly extreme, but allow a minority to exercise its rights without disturbing the peace of the silent majority. specific wording helps to make it clear to the congregation and to law enforcement agencies which acts are illegal. i believe that, among other things, the regulation of spontaneous, unannounced but peaceful demonstrations would be very timely and necessary.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. with great respect and sincere appreciation, i would like to congratulate chancellor angela merkel on winning this year's european charles prize, for her outstanding contribution to the treaty of lisbon and the integration of the new member states. i'm pleased to announce that for the first time this year the charles awards for young people will be given out. it is a special pleasure and pride for me that the first károly prize was awarded to hungary, a fantastic team of hungarian youth, the ferenc ii rákóczi foundation, who deserved the prize with their program students without borders. i would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the hungarian team, as well as to the silver medalists great britain and the bronze medalists greece. the hungarian 'students without borders' programme is unique in that it provides young people from hungarian national communities in the participating countries, such as slovakia, romania, ukraine and serbia, with the opportunity to exchange ideas about european education and culture. it is a landmark that such a prestigious european award recognises the link between the motherland and the national regions beyond the borders.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. few people know that sport contributes 4% of the european union's gdp and employs some 15 million people. if this is true, it is likely that the statistics of individual member states should also give such income and employment indicators. but in stark contrast to this is the fact that some countries, including my country, unfortunately hungary, spend a paltry, less than half a percent of their national budget on sports or healthy living. at such times, we may well ask, who is really supporting whom? if we take the role of sport seriously, it would be desirable that sport should not be a profit-making sector but should enjoy a moral and financial support from governments that is much greater than it is today. i believe that the health of the next generation, physical and mental hygiene, and the quality of their work, if you like, are strategic issues, and i am therefore pleased that the white paper has been born and that the treaty of lisbon is also dealing with sport in a meaningful way. let us not forget that sport is an important means of education, social cohesion, health care, and contributes to the quality of our lives. but in this case, the mere half a percent of the money spent on sport is out of proportion to the weight of sport, this social phenomenon. i sincerely hope that the pierre de coubertin action plan, which is part of the white paper, will be taken seriously by the member states and that the commission will provide appropriate guidance and, where appropriate, financial support from the available development resources. i also hope that no one in europe will be able to say that they do not know exactly what we are talking about when we talk about sport, because the white paper provides a great guide for all governments, all sports ministers. i'm glad that the material is also about the fact that i'm a sports manager myself. i'm glad that the material is about the fact that sport is an autonomous entity that can organize itself and that has special characteristics. congratulations to my friend mavrommatis! thank you, sir.
thank you very much, mr. president. i congratulate the rapporteur on her report. a lot has been said here today, but i'd like to draw your attention to a few issues. obesity is emerging as a public health problem, and to a large extent, it is the result of a sedentary lifestyle. so it can help to do this - as the previous speaker said - by making daily physical education compulsory in the member states from primary level up to the level of higher education. but that requires facilities, and it requires that we change the curriculum. the situation of the facilities could be helped by more government involvement, as at least half of the sports revenues, which represent 4% of national income, would have to be redirected for this situation to change significantly, and i would certainly recommend that this happens. i hope the white paper will help the situation. thank you so much for listening.
in writing. the report of my greek colleague on sport is an important and sympathetic document. sport has been part of european culture for thousands of years. ancient greece was one of the gifts that gave mankind the joy of the olympics. many people today are concerned about whether the olympics can be saved from the boycott, from legitimate political passions. i am pleased to say that in hungary, both the moderating political forces and the public reject the boycott of the beijing olympics. as far as i can see, the mood is the same all over europe. so it is hoped that after several unfortunate boycotts, politics will not spoil the fun for athletes and hundreds of millions of sports lovers this time. political participation in the opening ceremonies is another matter. this is a matter for politicians to decide in their political capacity, and in no way should it involve either sport or athletes.
in writing. allow me to congratulate mr mavrommatis on his report, which encourages eu member states to exchange best practice in order to reduce violence, racism and xenophobia in and around sports grounds. the fight against racism, which is unfortunately increasing in stadiums, is a common task and interest of the member states' authorities, sports federations and competition organisers. in this respect, great initiatives such as the european football association's 'football against racism in europe' campaign and the 'racism is ruining the game' series of events stand out. however, the most effective antidote to racism and exclusion in sport is play itself, which fosters team spirit, cooperation and fair competition, and reinforces the social values of cooperation and solidarity. however, certain social groups, typically the most disadvantaged ethnic minorities, are statistically significantly less active in sport and have less access to the facilities of the national sports infrastructure. it is therefore necessary for the european union to establish appropriate reference frameworks to promote equal opportunities in the practice and funding of sport, and for the management of national sports organisations to treat participation of disadvantaged groups in the sport as a priority, in cooperation with local and regional bodies.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the region of central and eastern europe, we must also confront the environmental legacy of communism. this is not a matter for us to consider as a matter of national policy, but as a matter for all of us in europe. our countries, including romania, were almost unprepared for the change of system in the development of environmental strategies. i support the report by mr hartmut nassauer, member of the european parliament, on the criminal law protection of the environment and urge that those who cause serious environmental damage be held criminally liable by tightening and enforcing eu legislation. cyanide technology should be banned in verespatak, roșia montană. deforestation in the szeklerland and other parts of romania is also damaging the environment. the transylvania highway could cause serious environmental damage. in ukraine, the construction of the bistro canal continues. a new nuclear power plant is being built in bulgaria after the closure of the kozloduy plant. we should pay close attention to these.
thank you, mr president. last week, the pope received the members of the catholic bishops' conference of hungary in the vatican. during the audience, the head of the catholic church praised the activities of the hungarian church, criticized the secular state, which he believed was hurting families, and criticized the law on registered partnerships because it legalizes cohabitation and gives civil rights to gays. he stated that the legislation was contrary not only to the teachings of the church but also to the hungarian constitution. in a secular europe, member states do not interfere in religious matters, and the church does not put ideological pressure on the state. the lisbon treaty guarantees fundamental human rights, including freedom of religion, and creates an institutional link between the eu and the churches. however, this cooperation can only be based on reciprocity, and we therefore urge president barroso to take the initiative, acting within the framework of the responsibility he has assumed, of a dialogue with the catholic church in defence of secular europe and european values. thank you very much.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the forthcoming russian-eu summit in siberia could open up new opportunities. an important outcome of the meeting could be a bilateral treaty that could define the relationship between the two parties in the long term. to this end, energy issues should be given a central role in that agreement, taking into account the principle of reciprocity. one of the most important conditions for establishing reciprocity is that russia ratifies the energy charter. the agreement creates transparency in the energy market, contributes to security of supply and stimulates investment. the latter are also vital for russia. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the russian federation is able to fulfil its commitments. the ratification of the energy charter by the kremlin is therefore in the common interest. the success of the forthcoming summit will depend on the willingness of the member states to step out of the shadows of short-term considerations and to speak with a single voice in defence of the common interest. thank you very much, mr. president.
, in writing. in the last 50 years, the world's population has doubled, and energy consumption has quadrupled. the commission has therefore no choice but to welcome and support by all means the creation of the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking. i understand the concerns of mrs haug about funding, but the financials should not stand in the way of this initiative. the key words are innovation and lifestyle change. and that costs money. but it's worth it. in modern economies, innovation accounts for 70 to 80 percent of annual gdp growth! why would we invest in hydrogen? because it's an intermediate energy carrier. its "stocks" are endless, the most abundant element in the universe. however, it can only be considered as an alternative to fossil fuels if it can be produced from renewable energy sources at a competitive price and without emitting carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. the importance of this was recognized in canada and the united states as early as 2002. there are hundreds of thousands of "biomills" on the roads, and the number of hydrogen stations is growing. there are around 18 000 environmentally friendly models in the union. the charging station coverage is not even worth mentioning. to avoid the final collapse we cannot wait with this technology and fuel support, we must act. i am also inviting my colleagues to my green innovation conference in parliament on the afternoon of 28 may next week, where, after the meeting, participants will be able to travel by hydrogen bus and hydrogen car.
, in writing. – we welcome the ongoing efforts to further incorporate the level of consumers' awareness as the necessary basis for the effective implementation of the existing consumer protection legal framework, especially with regard to the most vulnerable groups of the population. not only is there a need for a more comprehensive legal framework for consumers' rights, but also we ought genuinely to take into consideration consumers’ interests when completing the internal market standardisation. it is obvious that a stronger, unique consumer protection system effective all over the union is in the interest of all citizens. the completion of the internal market is an opportunity to implement harmonisation measures so as to target the problems faced by consumers in their everyday life. specific attention should therefore be given to sectors related to the new digital environment. a good consumer is a consumer aware of his or her rights and how rightfully to enforce them. we ought to develop in the community a genuine consumer culture as part of our education system and to systematically involve consumer organizations in the consultations and the dialogue with industry. we welcome therefore the call to establish a special european consumer ombudsman in the european ombudsman’s office on a country-by-country basis.
, in writing. the employment directive is a long-term guideline for the member states of the enlarged europe, setting out the objectives and means for the second half of the implementation of the lisbon strategy to increase competitiveness and employment. it has since been proven that no competitive, efficient economy in a competitive world can move faster than others if it is to be built in the social desert among people who are insecure and threatened with social exclusion. decent work is a prerequisite for a decent life, and this requires potential workers who are adequately qualified, able to renew their knowledge, in good health and protected from discrimination. in 2006, the directive was revised to take account of the needs of the new member states. this gave impetus to the cumulative disadvantage in the labour market, the hopeless labour market situation of non-young women, the specific linguistic isolation and the issue of roma employment. in the last two years, the number of jobs has increased, the employment rates have improved, and the dramatic activity indicators have become milder. however, the growth of jobs in the classic full-time contract jobs was slower, while the share of part-time employment, seasonal work and contract work rose exponentially. in the changed situation, we do not argue that the time for dogmatic labour law regulation is over. extensive and intensive economic development requires flexible rules which must not lead to a relativism of labour law and to a de-emphasis of the importance of social partnership and collective agreements.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, mr president. elizabeth lynne's excellent report is based on the responsibility that comes with the discrimination we live with. not only has this not disappeared from the europe of excellence, but according to eurobarometer surveys, it is increasing and citizens are feeling it. i would add that with enlargement new phenomena of discrimination threats have also been intensified, for example, the multiple disadvantaged, and today the discrimination against roma is becoming more dangerous. the majority of the committee on employment and social affairs voted in favour of adopting the horizontal directive. we all remember the sign of parliamentary mistrust of the committee that was being formed, which became the majority opinion because of the views of one of the candidates on discrimination. the commission then promised to use the power conferred on it by section 13 of the treaty, to take legal action against any discrimination and to seek legal remedies. the commission's assessment of the transposition of existing eu legislation by member states and even the initiation of infringement procedures for failure to transpose existing directives is also urgent. the socialists cannot accept any sort of hierarchy between the prohibitions of discrimination laid down in the treaty or in the future lisbon amendment. we refuse to consider who is more harmed, the disabled, the gay, or the elderly. we believe that the legal solution proposed by the elizabeth lynne report is a general horizontal directive from the commission, which does not exclude, but rather requires, the formulation of sectoral or other specific rules. i am convinced that this is in line with the position of european citizens who are themselves victims or may be victims of discrimination. thank you very much.
my fellow officers! european unity is not only based on economics but also on a number of important values. such values include the inviolability of human dignity, freedom, responsibility, solidarity, diversity, the principle of non-discrimination, tolerance and mutual respect. it is important that, in addition to policy statements, these principles are given a legal form which guarantees the elimination of the distinction between the grounds of discrimination and provides comprehensive protection. the european project is only viable if it can ensure that the rights of disadvantaged groups are upheld. their full integration is in our common interest and must be facilitated by appropriate measures. it is therefore in the interest of all member states to ensure the full, accurate and effective transposition of all the provisions of directives 2000/43 and 2000/78 and the proper practical implementation of the directives in such a way that the transposition of the legislation into national law represents a real benefit for disadvantaged groups. laws are only valid if they are enforced. monitoring this is a highly important task which requires special attention both at member state and community level. control mechanisms for carrying out impact assessments should be developed. involve and engage in social dialogue with civil society organisations that can provide concrete feedback. i am convinced that when barroso took office in 2004, he believed what he said. please do this afterwards.
, in writing. it is very timely that mrs lynne's report on equal opportunities was published today. recently, on may 17th, we expressed our solidarity with transsexuals, bisexuals and gays. on special days, on special occasions, it is customary to look back on the past. unfortunately, as the report shows, there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of equal opportunities. unemployment remains unacceptably high among women, migrants, people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, and those with isolated or unrecognised skills. in the field of employment, i therefore propose the introduction of a european equal opportunities monitoring system, which would support jobs that play a prominent role in creating equal opportunities through tax incentives and/or pr opportunities. he'd also blacklist anyone who didn't meet the criteria at all. this would provide an incentive for companies and new perspectives and insights for jobseekers. unfortunately, extremist and populist politics continue to spread in eastern and central europe, but sad images are coming from western europe as well. negative discrimination against roma is increasing, and roma communities are being destroyed by extremist forces. this is a real demonstration of the urgent need for the european roma strategy, which the socialists have proposed, to be developed and for action to be taken at european level. the laws of the member states protect against discrimination in various ways. there is often no uniform method of implementation, which leads to insufficient implementation of directives. eu, national and local authorities should coordinate their enforcement efforts, taking into account the horizontal approach and the general enforcement. it would also be important to validate the social impact assessment and the annual evaluation of implementation before legislation is established.
, in writing. as chair of the national intergroup on minorities, i welcome ms lynne's report, which takes stock of progress in non-discrimination and identifies the way forward. community legislation on non-discrimination is also of particular importance because protection of the individual is not sufficient. she is not discriminated against as an individual, but as a member of a group: because she is a national minority, because she is older, because she is a woman, because she is disabled, because she is a sexual minority, because she is roma. therefore, the only way to effectively protect persons belonging to different minorities is to protect the group as a whole. the report rightly points out that the two existing directives only set minimum requirements and that further progress should be made towards the development of a comprehensive anti-discrimination policy at community level, towards an anti-discrimination directive of a horizontal nature. the provision that the commission should develop a common eu-wide definition of the meaning of a positive measure is also of particular importance. the report draws particular attention to the fact that minority communities, and in particular the roma community, require special protection. in this context, i would like to recall article 25 of the zdanoka report on the same subject, which stresses the importance of the political participation of indigenous national minorities. according to the article, national minorities need a normative framework that allows them to effectively participate in the decision-making process concerning their identity through various forms of self-determination or autonomy.
in writing. −i voted in favour of mr andersson's report because i believe it is important to remove all possible obstacles to the harmonisation of qualifications. it is important to repeal council decision 85/368/eec as its implementation has not been effective in the harmonisation of professional qualifications. today, the decision is being replaced by other, newer and more effective instruments at european level, such as the european qualifications framework. the eqf covers all levels of education and training, including general and adult education, higher education and vocational education and training, as a means of promoting lifelong learning. it is therefore important that member states give greater weight to education, which is the basis for employment. education plays a major role in the development of a tolerant european society, besides providing general education and cultural skills. the next generation must learn to accept and respect otherness, in addition to energy efficiency and environmental protection. but education is more than that: it provides opportunities for minorities, roma, to preserve their culture and to integrate. even today, there are more and more well-trained youths among minorities who are prepared to defend their interests against local authorities and the government. for this to be universal, there needs to be progress in language teaching, more attention to minority cultures in schools and a more active role for minorities themselves in teaching.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, madam president. madam president, commissioner, and my fellow members of the house. the situation of roma in italy, as in the rest of europe, is terrible and has been for decades. we have done very, very little, and very little is being done by the governments that we control or that we support, and by the governments that belong to our groups, our own political groups, to stop this. neither the left nor the right have been able to achieve any change in the last decades in terms of the inclusion of the roma, so i think it's very, very important that we have this issue on the agenda here on a regular basis and talk about it, but we want to ask for a much deeper commitment from the political parties, and i think that programs, real integration in europe is needed to ensure that the roma do not fall victim to the atrocities caused by this mass hysteria. i think that we cannot be satisfied with speeches in plenary and that it is completely unnecessary to treat this as a question of party politics, because the socialist, liberal and conservative governments have not been able to do anything. we reject the inaction that is taking place in europe on the roma issue, just as we reject the reference to the principle of collective guilt and its practice, and just as we reject the criminality. i think it's very important that the italian government does everything possible to make sure that it keeps its promise and that the security package does not target any ethnic group, that we avoid mass expulsions, but i think it's even more important that we send a signal from here to the countries of europe. the responsibility that the european commission has to take on is to have a professional minimum, to have an agreement between countries on how they are going to change the situation of roma in europe very, very quickly. i think it is essential for europe's morale and competitiveness that the emphasis should be on action, on the implementation of serious plans, and on the substance of the matter, rather than on empty talk. and i think our job is to promote and demand that. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i congratulate the commissioner on his very fine speech on this subject. i would like to express myself in response to the anti-romany pogroms which took place in naples on 13 may this year and the subsequent developments in italy. i decided to visit rome and naples last weekend as a kind of field research and spoke personally to people living there. i also demanded urgent intervention by the italian authorities to ensure fundamental rights and protect roma in the country from further acts of violent, racist aggression and to defuse the climate of anti-romany hostility prevailing in italy. i had written a letter to silvio berlusconi on 23 february. together with 88 other ngos, we were seriously concerned that the political campaign which had been carried out associated roma with negative stereotypes and used the whole romany nation as electoral scapegoats, which is totally in opposition to european values. now we can see the impact of that campaign. the roma emergency was declared when the media reported that a 16 year-old romany girl had attempted to kidnap a 6 month-old baby from her mother in naples. according to my fact-finding mission, this story is false: the police have no record of this; there is no investigation concerning this case. on 13 may a mob of approximately 60 people used molotov cocktails to set fire to five romany camps in naples. similar violent outbursts have also occurred in other italian cities, such as milan. what is really worrying is that, according to the information i have received from the police officers in naples, there is no police investigation concerning this case either. i have to tell you that the italian government appears to be strong with those who are weak and weak with those who are strong. whenever they raise the security issue, they should first raise the organised crimes committed by the camorra. they intend to talk about the immigration and roma issue in order to divert the focus from italy’s real problems. i hope that the italian authorities will ensure adequate and effective investigation of the events which took place in naples and milan and prosecute to the fullest extent of the law all responsible persons, including public officials making hostile statements about roma which incite racial hatred. i call on the italian authorities to cooperate fully with intergovernmental institutions, international organisations and domestic civil society to swiftly and effectively end the human rights emergency of the roma in italy. i also call on the european commission to come up with an eu roma strategy with the aim of making roma inclusion an urgent priority and to provide leadership and coordination for member states in their responsibility to ensure respect for the rights of their roma citizens.
thank you, madam president. in the city of naples, a social reality that has been obscured by symptomatic treatment for hours has emerged with startling force. the problem in the eu27 can no longer be dealt with at the level of the member states, but calls for complex community action. the problem is not one nation versus another, nor is it old versus new, nor is it even the relationship between roma and non-roma. this crisis highlights the desperate situation of millions of eu citizens who are on the margins of society, unemployed in the outer suburbs of cities, in shelters, in unhealthy conditions, without adequate support and training, and who are struggling to survive, unnoticed. the socialists are not silent, they are acting, they are not just talking about it, they are saying that it is unacceptable in a united europe to blame the roma population for the current state of public security. it is up to us to understand events like naples and how to use our community resources to remedy them effectively. as the european parliament's rapporteur on roma issues, i commend our cooperation to the commissioner and ask my colleagues to do the same.
madam deputy speaker, i have to ask you a question. romania has an estimated several million roma citizens, whose plight is more often reported in scandal journals than in a responsible social and minority policy that addresses their unsustainable situation. we can see this in the crimes committed by romanian gypsies in italy. it is sad and painful that only the scandalous events in italy can reach the threshold of the european parliament's social impulse. it is even more sad that some political forces are treating what happened there as an interference in italian internal politics, trying to forge political capital from the roma issue. on the other hand, we must also reject the use of public sentiment against romanian gypsies by certain political forces to foment general anti-romanian sentiment. the situation in italy is not primarily an internal italian matter and not merely a romanian roma issue, but a european issue for roma living in the union, which requires and deserves more than occasional and symptomatic treatment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the participation of women in higher education has increased dramatically in recent years. however, this has not led to an improvement in the ratio of women to men in scientific fields. the number of women in engineering has also increased over the past 20 years, but not as much as in other professions and fields of science. because of the difficulties, a very high proportion of women scientists are giving up their scientific careers, which is unacceptable and unreasonable. it's harder for women to advance in their careers. there's a difference in wages. women are underrepresented in scientific institutions. women researchers are faced with a choice: career or family. temporary interruption of women's academic careers for family reasons hinders their advancement. best practices for the management of work-life balance should be applied. the lisbon strategy also requires gender mainstreaming in research and development. we need to take more effective steps in all areas of science, to make the admission procedures, the career progression frameworks, transparent. efforts should be made to ensure gender balance in academic and non-academic research areas and in governing bodies. the report is excellent, i recommend it be accepted. i congratulate my colleague britta thomsen, who has been seriously engaged in this area as a researcher. thank you for that.
, in writing. mercury is one of the most well-known and dangerous heavy metals. it damages the nervous and immune systems, especially dangerous for babies, children. i welcome the initiative to ban exports because, despite the restrictions imposed in recent years, the use of mercury has not decreased significantly, but has shifted from the developed world to the developing world. the european union is the largest exporter in the world and it is hoped that the regulation will reduce the use of the substance worldwide. the mercury can also be used in foodstuffs which are then placed on the union market. so it is not only our global responsibility, but also our own interest to reduce mercury pollution in the third world. i consider it a success for myself and the socialist group that the ban on mercury-based potash exports is extended, since mercury can be converted into potash cheaply and the cost of recycling is minimal. without this clause, exporters of metallic mercury could easily escape compliance with the regulation.
mr. president, i would like to congratulate mr. florenz on his excellent report. the debate about the science behind climate change is very important because unfortunately, we politicians often ignore the facts, and the facts are very stubborn things. i agree with martin schulz that we should stop arguing and consider the facts. for example, between the danube and the tisza in hungary, in the 30 to 40 years of the hungarian era, the groundwater level dropped by 3 to 4 meters, and there was a lot of desertification, which means that scientists estimated that 50% of this desertification was caused by climate change and 50% by human mismanagement. i mean, we do have to take into account what scientists say. and i also agree that the eu alone will not solve the problem if the usa, japan, china, brazil and the developing world are not partners. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, mr. president. if we are to succeed in copenhagen at the end of 2009, i believe we must take two things into account, which i have also experienced during my visits to india, bangladesh, china and california in recent months. one is that we need to make a real effort. so it's not enough to boast, it's not enough to talk about 10 times 20 times 30 times 40 percent. the european environment agency found that carbon dioxide emissions in the european union have not only decreased since 2000, but have also increased slightly, by 1%. the ets is a great success, its reform is underway, but i think that similar reforms should be implemented in the non-ets system, perhaps the two systems should be merged. i strongly support the council's decision to base its decision on 1990 rather than 2005. the other very important thing is the adaptation base. if we are to succeed in copenhagen, we must create the adaptation fund. the stern report showed that without an adaptation fund, the rest of the world has very little chance of escaping the unpleasant consequences of climate change. thank you, sir.
in writing. taking account of the scientifically substantiated characteristics of climate change is essential for making decisions in this area. the risk of making wrong decisions based on false conclusions is at least as great as the risk of inaction. one thing is certain: climate change is a scientific fact, and it requires quick and effective solutions. a calm consideration of scientific facts can also help us to assess how market-based environmental instruments can contribute to improving environmental quality. we believe that further efforts are needed by member states to promote market-friendly incentives. the creation of an emissions trading system, which takes a market-based approach to reducing emissions, is a welcome development. the operation of the system is evidence that market, competition and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive. in hungary, there are many examples of how wrong conclusions can lead to wrong decisions. biomass farming is really about burning wood, and the harmful consequences of the forced subsidisation of biofuels are becoming increasingly apparent. the measures taken in these two areas do not meet the sustainability requirements and do not provide a market-friendly solution to the problem. we would like to emphasise that climate change requires measures that are not only scientifically sound but also take account of market mechanisms.
madam president, let us not sugarcoat the situation: the turkish accession issue has reached a critical stage. it is also hampered by the uncertainty of turkish domestic politics and the european union's uncertainty about turkey. in this situation, it is important to reiterate that the accession process is an open-ended process, but the common goal is membership. we have also committed ourselves, and turkey has also committed itself. it is in our strategic interest that turkey should be part of political europe in the long term. associated membership, the union for the mediterranean, can complement but not replace the integration process. turkey also needs to do much more than it has done in strengthening democratic institutions, in strengthening civilian control over the military, in reforming the legal system, in human and minority rights. we have a shared responsibility to make this process a success, because if the negotiations fail, it is our failure, not just turkey's. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, mr. president. my fellow officers! the farm structure surveys are among the oldest statistical surveys in the community and provide essential and necessary information on the economies of the union. especially now that the community has expanded to 12 new member states and we are working on reforming the common agricultural policy, it is of great importance to be able to carry out a new comprehensive survey as soon as possible. to make fair and well-functioning agricultural policy, we need these comparable and consistent data. that is why i have tried to reach an agreement on the first reading so that these surveys can be launched as soon as possible. i would like to thank in particular the very constructive attitude of the colleagues who took part in the trialogue, in particular mrs. elisabeth jeggle, mr. nicolas meves and mr. alexis kuhl for their work. the modifications made as a result of the trialogue were incorporated into block 1. i ask that you all support the amendments proposed by block one, and in that case, we can close this file. thank you very much.
in writing. - in the case of public money, such as agricultural aid, it is necessary to ensure that it is distributed fairly on the basis of objective criteria. we therefore agree with the need for surveys to be carried out to ascertain these conditions on farms. the application of these principles must not, however, become another source of bureaucratic burden for farmers, especially small and mediumsized farmers, whose resources are very limited or non-existent. it cannot be a means of preventing farmers from obtaining the support to which they are entitled, because of technical or other shortcomings which are not their own, as has sometimes happened in portugal with satellite recognition and identification. we therefore welcome the fact that the report acknowledges the significant methodological and technical difficulties in many member states and stresses the need for the commission to provide them with the necessary technical assistance and advice on the recognition of agricultural holdings by satellite. we also want to emphasize once again the need for the member states' authorities to ensure that the data collected in the context of satellite reconnaissance is accessed and used exclusively for the intended purposes.
thank you very much, madam president. the natural disasters of the past few weeks have shocked all people of good will in the far east. it's natural that the world's attention is focused on these countries. the public is very concerned about china: the summer olympics, the visit of the chinese president to taiwan, the events in tibet, the dalai lama's visit to europe and his reception, the visit of the european commission to china - all these things are reasons for concern. but this is not the time to talk about a boycott or tibet. the near-magnitude 8 quake that devastated the sichuan plateau killed 50,000 people and displaced millions of survivors, not to mention the economic damage. i therefore ask all the institutions of the european union to provide all the humanitarian aid and to continue to disburse humanitarian aid to those affected by the disaster for as long as necessary. we thank the aid of the rescue and relief agencies who work day and night to improve the situation of the people there, and we assure the chinese people of our unconditional solidarity and sympathy. thank you very much.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the terrible tragedies of the chinese earthquake and the preceding cyclones in burma and myanmar shocked the world. the response of countries around the world has been exemplary, offering more than $2 billion in aid from japan to the united states, from russia to jordan. the european union and its member states responded immediately, and it was a positive thing that the commission sent 2 million euros in emergency aid to china, and is helping with mobile hospitals, medicine, rescue equipment, and clean-up equipment. it is highly respectable that the tibetan government in exile in india has called on its supporters to temporarily suspend protests against china and to donate to help earthquake victims. hungary had previously directed its aid to burma to china due to the military dictatorship's closure. the chinese leadership was wise to accept foreign aid, unlike myanmar. it's also very positive that china has been responsible in its treatment of the public, and it shows that there is substantial progress in democratic development. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mr wojciechowski on his excellent report. it is a very big problem indeed that animal health is not functioning properly in relation to third countries. we should strive in the wto to ensure that our high standards of animal health and welfare are respected in third countries. this is also in the interest of european consumers and producers. we need to protect the health of eu consumers from imports of products produced to lower standards. eu producers face higher costs, which puts them at an unfair competitive disadvantage. it is therefore of particular importance that an increasing percentage of the on-the-spot inspections carried out by the union food and veterinary office (fvo) take place in third countries. in 2008, it was only 30%. food safety is a priority. today, this system is facing serious problems within the union, even though the challenges, the risks of epidemics, are greater than before. in many places, there is a lack of qualified veterinarians to monitor compliance with the rules with sufficient efficiency and regularity. the tools are outdated, often working with 19th century tools. in many member states, there is a lack of training and education, and recent scandals, such as the m.e.g.a. trade scandal in my country, show that multinational companies are not sufficiently controlled in terms of food safety. these shortcomings must be addressed, i agree with the commission's strategic vision and i fully support the report. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, chief of staff, officer of the guard. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs saryusz-wolski and kuhne on their comprehensive report, they have done an excellent job. one of the main findings of the saryusz-wolski report is that stability in the western balkans is now the european union's number one priority. i couldn't agree more. in the case of kosovo, the credibility of the common foreign and security policy is at stake. the precedent is not very encouraging: although the ahtisaari plan was supported by all member states, there is no consensus among member states on the recognition of kosovo. but even more troubling is the disagreement over whether the mandate of unmik should be transferred to eulex. if this does not happen, the european union will not be able to meet its own commitments, and this will undermine its credibility. the eulex mission has a very important role to play in establishing the rule of law, introducing a functioning market economy, strengthening kosovo's multi-ethnic character and building trust among people living together. the european union cannot leave kosovo on its own. our policy in the western balkans must rest on three pillars. first, we must offer countries a genuine european perspective, we must set the conditions strictly and we must be consistent. it is a big mistake to ignore the conditions for momentary political considerations or to give inconsistent benefits to countries that do not cooperate with us and benefits that we do not give to those that do. they continue to threaten the credibility of the european union. the european union wants to play a global role, and rightly so, but this will remain a pipe dream until it can provide peace, stability and the possibility of progress in its own immediate neighbourhood. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague helmut kuhne on his excellent report. he is absolutely right that 2008 will be a defining year for the common foreign and defence policy. not only because of the lisbon treaty, but kosovo will be the eu's biggest test of whether we are prepared to do the right thing politically in kosovo. unfortunately, there is still no agreement between the un and the eu, and unfortunately we are not prepared intellectually, because we have not learned the lessons of the international presence in bosnia and herzegovina. as regards the second report, i regard the anti-russian lead in the saryuš-wolski report as unfortunate. russia can and must be criticized, but at the same time it is an unavoidable strategic partner, deepening cooperation is in our mutual interest. it is not because there is no common energy policy that the eu member states have concluded a bilateral agreement, but because there is no common energy policy, there is no basis for adjustment, there is no basis for reconciling the interests of the member states, and therefore the criticism of the wolski report is unacceptable. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – the report reflects correctly our opinions on the evolution of the cfsp in the future. the cfsp is a crucially important element in the eu’s foreign policy. i would like to welcome the improvements brought by the lisbon treaty regarding external actions. its implementation would make the cfsp more efficient and more coherent. the new posts created by the treaty could give a greater visibility to the eu, but i believe it is essential to define the different roles in order to ensure that their different functions contribute to the coherence and efficiency of the cfsp. if we want the eu to be an active force for international peace and stability, we must have all the necessary tools and instruments at our disposal; but to achieve this, more political will from the member states is needed. the eu presence in the globe is widening, and we can find eu missions all over the world. by helping to build security and stability in the wider world, the eu is also helping to make life safer for her own people. this is the best way to defend its security and promote its values. in my opinion these are steps in the right direction.
in writing. the eu-us summit in a few days' time is a good opportunity to review the development of transatlantic relations in key areas. we believe that energy cooperation should be placed high on the agenda. energy security remains a priority on both sides of the atlantic. it is well known that the bulk of the stocks are located in countries which do not always meet democratic requirements. therefore, joint action and further efforts are needed to promote human rights and the rule of law. it is important to emphasise that the spread of democratic principles also means greater security of energy supply. in addition to the above, future cooperation should focus increasingly on the fight against climate change. it is a welcome development that the united states has committed itself to laying the foundations for a post-kyoto regime. the eu member states and the united states should take the lead in ensuring that the most developed countries agree on the main pillars of the international treaty before the end of the year. the recent package of emissions reduction proposals in the us congress is yet another sign that washington wants to take an active role in the fight against climate change. oil prices at previously unimaginable levels are urgently calling for concerted international action on energy policy. we are convinced that the responsibility of the united states and europe in this area is inescapable.
in writing. – eu-us relations in many issues have been through substantial changes over the last years and are moving into a phase of consolidation for many items of cooperation. the recent case of the negotiations on lifting visa restrictions for travellers from the eu is an excellent example – in spite of the positive outcome – showing why, in order to ensure successful talks between the us and the eu, we ought to avoid mere bilateral agreements which actually undermine the negotiating powers of the eu as a whole. having a package agreement encompassing the 27 member states, based on the distribution of competences between the union and the member states, was indeed crucial in order to support the eu visa common policy. it is essential to ensure that, where community competences apply, we secure eu-wide deals with our strategic partners such as the united states. in my opinion, it is in the interest of both partners. it is indeed the only way to ensure that the visa waiver programme brings full reciprocal visa free travel and equal treatment for all our citizens as regards the status of their passports, just as for us citizens.
in the midst of the worldwide crisis over illegal logging, a landmark law was passed in the united states on may 15. congress created the first law in the world to ban the importation of illegally harvested timber. in 2006, 10% of us imports were from illegally harvested timber. after the law was passed, the analysis highlighted that this law will help american manufacturers compete, protect jobs, and that it is a clear message that will be heard by forest communities. how long and what is the european union waiting for, i ask? it's a shame and a disgrace to wait with our hands folded. but there is something we can do as members of parliament: i suggest that everyone sign petition no 23, which was tabled a few months ago and whose aim is precisely to persuade the commission to finally follow the united states in introducing legislation while we still have forests. thank you very much.
turkish prime minister erdogan gave a highly controversial speech in cologne in february this year, calling assimilation a crime against humanity. on the basis of the free choice of identity, this statement is unacceptable, the preservation of cultural diversity is an important goal, but the individual cannot be deprived of the choice. for western european turks, dual identity may be the natural state. erdogan's demand for a university in germany with turkish as its mother tongue is unrealistic, because in several eu countries even the indigenous national minorities who have lived there for centuries do not have their own state university, like the hungarians in transylvania, where the hungarian community was deprived of an independent state university under the communist dictatorship. it is important that turkey does not manipulate the migrant minorities in western europe for domestic political purposes. it would also be nice if prime minister erdogan swept around his own house: the situation of the kurds, the recognition of the genocide against the armenians and the equality of women.
in writing. the union has a responsibility to prevent sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings at sporting events held on its territory. the 2008 european football championship is a major sporting event that brings together a large number of people, which temporarily increases the demand for sexual services. it is therefore essential to defend ourselves with transitional campaigns, such as those initiated by ms. zaborska during the 2006 fifa world cup and which she argues should continue this time. however, i believe that in order to reach as many people as possible, the initiative would need to be widely publicised in the media (including on the ec's official website) by political and sports leaders or by athletes and fans (as in the 'youth voices against racism' programme). but a transitional campaign is not enough. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's action plan against trafficking in human beings. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that many countries are experiencing shortcomings in the transposition and interpretation of directives, which is causing delays in their implementation. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that we get an accurate answer to the question of the zborskaya commission concerning directive 2004/81/ec. although border control plays an important role in screening for sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings at sporting events in the union, i believe that this cannot be achieved by tightening internal border controls but by strengthening external ones, by ensuring adequate cooperation between border guards. we're not making it harder for law-abiding citizens to participate in european events.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i would like to draw attention once again to the vulnerability of roma women in the area of trafficking and forced prostitution, following the question of president zaborská. social exclusion and the frequent lack of official documents make roma girls particularly vulnerable and easy targets for trafficking profiteers. their situation is further exacerbated by racial and gender prejudice both in society and in their own communities, and by the general lack of trust of roma in the justice system. specific programmes are needed to help victims of trafficking and their families and to prevent adolescent girls from being forced to live and work in exploitative environments. it is also essential to establish advisory networks and centres, both by civil society organisations and by member states, and to collect and analyse reliable statistical data on the relationship between roma communities and trafficking in human beings. in the latter area, while some civil and international organisations are able to show some results, a substantially greater involvement of both the european commission and the member states is needed. however, the main driver of trafficking and sexual exploitation is the deprivation of human life in the daily struggle for survival, where the lack of economic and educational opportunities significantly increases the risk of illegal activities. therefore, in addition to awareness programs and assistance to those already victimized, the elimination of this inhuman misery is our joint priority.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much, mr. president. health and the consumption of quality food are of paramount importance to european citizens in the 21st century. it is our job as representatives to ensure that, and that requires consumer protection legislation, procedures like haccp. but it's equally important not to overdo it, not to over-regulate our lives, because that's not about quality of life, that's about bureaucracy. the present compromise proposal is, in my view, a step in the right direction. experience has shown that the haccp requirements currently in force are in many cases unduly restrictive. moreover, they are not always applicable in the hospitality and hotel industries, because they assume food industry conditions, working methods. nevertheless, the new member states, including hungary, have met or exceeded the haccp requirements. and that's what our businesses have been doing, and many of them have been doing it for centuries, and that's not what we're trying to do, and that's why we have to change it. first of all, it is important to emphasise that restaurants are not food factories, so they should not be required to meet the same standards, because this is at the expense of quality and traditions. let's not forget he had a michelin star before haccp. we need to reduce the overwhelming administrative burden. i support the idea that the haccp exemption should only apply to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are able to carry out food hygiene controls. i regret that while the taxation of micro enterprises is covered, the exemption of small and medium-sized enterprises is only covered in the text. it's important to be clear about this, to say it. finally, the system must be more flexible than the main one. the competent national authority shall decide what is common sense in a given case. i congratulate the reporter on her report.
i am absolutely in favour of mr verheugen's efforts to help smes and i would like to congratulate mr schnellhardt. food safety is a key issue in the european union, but we should regulate and control it rationally. the eu's excessive regulation often seems to benefit multinational companies rather than small and medium-sized enterprises. mr verheugen is right that the national control authorities are making the situation worse by taking unnecessary bribes from small and medium-sized food businesses in hungary, by over-compliance with regulations in a foolish manner, while not daring to take meaningful action against the large multinational companies with a lobbying power. unfortunately, this report will not bring back the small butchers and bakers in the villages who have been forced to stop their production because of the senseless overregulation, but i think it is absolutely necessary to support this report.
in writing. the official inspections due in hungary in the summer show that there are often hygiene problems with the occasional vendors, bakeries and market stalls. these phenomena are known in other countries. i agree that we need to cut red tape, especially when regulations make it impossible for small businesses to do their jobs. but reducing the scope of legislation cannot be at the expense of food safety. europe has a unique and exceptionally good food safety regulation compared to other continents. there may be shortcomings in its implementation, but these problems need not necessarily be addressed by deregulation. therefore, we can only exempt from haccp, eu hygiene control, in cases where we can be absolutely sure that we are not causing harm. as the hungarian says, it's better to be afraid than scared.
thank you, mr president. i'll speak in hungarian. in slovakia, a new education law has been adopted, adopted by the parliament, and only needs the signature of the president of the republic to be implemented. from now on, in history books for hungarian-speaking students, place names and names of historical personalities will be written in slovak spelling, ignoring our centuries-old historical and linguistic traditions. the new law seriously violates the language rights of the hungarian community in slovakia. the charter for regional and minority languages was signed and ratified by slovakia in 2001. commissioner orban himself considers the preservation of the mother tongues of national minorities to be of strategic importance. it is regrettable and unacceptable that in the european year of intercultural dialogue slovakia is acting contrary to european practice. it does not extend the rights of minorities, on the contrary, it actually restricts them. as a result of the treaty of trianon, thousands of hungarian-speaking settlements have been moved beyond our borders, and we have the right to use their names in our native language. linguistic diversity is europe's cultural heritage, a unique treasure which we all have a duty to preserve. thank you for the word.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! in the last plenary session, our president, graham watson, briefed this house in one minute on the atrocities against the roma in italy. today, i am compelled to inform you of similar events, this time from my own country, hungary. a few weeks ago, 70 kilometers from budapest, on easter sunday, three vigilantes threw a dozen molotov cocktails at three roma houses. on april 16th, two houses in faddon, tolna county were hit by unknown men throwing molotov cocktails. a week ago, my own colleague was attacked by extremists in the ghetto, shouting, "you stinking gypsy, get out of the country!" the patkai police are innocent, but the majority of the population is for it, even though one of the suspects has already confessed. nevertheless, on friday, about 150 uniformed men with nazi ideology marched, and then unknown mobs tried to attack again in the presence of a hundred riot police, including me. at the same time, the police have hidden the victim of the patkai incident. in italy, our fellow eu citizens are in prisons for refugees, and they are also roma. commissioner barrot, i hope that once your new cabinet is in place, we roma can also enjoy the security provided by the democracy of the european union, and that the definition of eu citizenship can be interpreted for me and my children in the same way as for my non-roma colleagues. thank you very much.
mr. president, i have to go. pope benedict xvi aptly described to the hungarian bishops the distressing legacy of the long communist regime. it is particularly timely today, the 50th anniversary of the execution of prime minister imre nagy, and the 60th anniversary of the start of the brutal persecution of the church and the imprisonment of józsef mindszenthy. the painful period of militant anti-churchism coupled with the violence of power was evoked by the recent speech of our post-communist representative kosané kovács magda here in the plenary, in which she wanted to protect european values from pope benedict and the catholic church. a few years ago, kosane kovacs, a former party leader, slandered the vatican, headed by pope john paul ii, for wanting to take over all of europe and involve it. i am aware that the christian churches themselves, as reformed bishops, are the bearers of genuine european values in a union with christian democratic roots, and i reject all manifestations of anti-church ideologies and intolerance. let's invite pope benedict to the parliament.
mr. president, this is a respectable house. fifty years ago today, on june 16, 1958, in hungary, imre nagy, the prime minister of the 1956 revolution and freedom war, was convicted and executed in a constitutional conception trial, pál maléter, the minister of war, miklós gémes, józsef szilágyi and his colleagues, and geza losonczi were killed in prison. their bodies were wrapped in wire and buried face down. your lawsuit is one of the greatest embarrassments and injustices of the 20th century. imre was a staunch communist, yet he chose to return to his homeland in a free europe rather than the soviet union. he made him a national hero, a martyr of the revolution, a politician of european stature. his moral sense made him a symbol of freedom and european hungary. nagy's dignified reburial took place only on june 16, 1989, but then the communist regime was over, and hungary could return to the family of free european nations. their message is clear: freedom, national independence, the dream of a european hungary that renounces communism. fifty years ago, they gave their lives for this, their sacrifice was not in vain.
mr president, chee soon juan was released from queenstown prison in singapore two days ago. he has been convicted and imprisoned several times in the last few years. chee soon juan is not a criminal. his ‘crime’ is very simple: he is leader of the democratic opposition. he is constantly struggling for freedom and democracy in his country. since his last release, the state-controlled media in singapore started to discredit him, to destroy his credibility, with baseless personal attacks and character assassination. we have a strong solidarity with mr chee soon juan and his fellows, who are struggling and fighting for democracy and human rights in singapore. we call on the singaporean authorities to stop harassing the democratic opposition, to stop the violation of human rights and to start respecting the basic right of free expression. we hope very much that singapore will go along with our strong wish to respect basic rights.
madam president, i speak now as the representative of a country whose parliament has ratified the constitutional treaty for the second time with the support of all parties and the lisbon treaty for the first time, to draw attention to the fact that the greatest danger in europe today is national egoism, nationalism. we have to ask ourselves, should we always reward those who demand more or should we rather punish such behavior? the protection of national interests is a fundamental task for the government and the member of the european parliament of each country, but the union cannot function without sensible compromises between national interests and solidarity between nations and peoples. i would therefore urge our polish friends to support the european institute of technology in budapest, as do the other 26 member states. in the case of frontex in warsaw, hungary, which has been a long-time supporter, has not used its veto power, and it would be unfair if our polish friends did not reciprocate this gesture. "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier dwa bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier two bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki" - "hungarian, polish two good friends" - "polish, węgier two bratanki, i do sabli i do szklanki"
madam president, in europe we are currently recycling only 27% of our waste and almost half of our waste ends up in landfills. this shows that we have to fundamentally change our waste management. most importantly we should encourage waste prevention, strengthen reuse and recycling and minimise the amount of landfill waste. therefore i welcome the fact that the waste hierarchy remained in the new compromise text after some debate. as regards prevention – the main aim of the legislation – i miss the waste stabilisation targets in the latest text, but we had already adopted them in the first reading. in the old member states one person generates almost twice as much household waste – 570 kg per year – as a person in the new member states – 300 to 350 kg per year. so the rich nations should start to decrease waste production first. the amount of generated waste is increasing on a european scale. therefore prevention programmes, as proposed in the compromise, are not enough: we must set binding targets to halt the growing waste generation. that is why i consider supporting amendment 48 which reintroduces the waste stabilisation target. i welcome the mandatory waste reuse and recycling targets, but i am afraid that the new text, which says that member states ‘shall take the necessary measures’ to achieve the targets is not enough. we need concrete, enforceable and binding targets, both for household and industrial waste. therefore i propose to support amendment 82, to ensure the enforcement of the recycling targets. having made these comments, i welcome the report and the work of mrs jackson, my friend guido sacconi and others.
thank you very much, madam president. i welcome the compromise package, but i must stress that this compromise is very fragile. it is therefore particularly important that each member state behaves responsibly and does not seek out any loopholes in the legislation. at present, the selective collection rate for municipal waste in hungary is 2%. i think there is nothing to add to this but to hope that the directive will finally move us away from this low level. in recent years, the number of waste management investments in the eastern half of europe has increased, mainly due to the support received from ispa and the cohesion funds. the main landfill sites were built and selective collection programmes were initiated in several municipalities, and in some places measures were taken to collect organic waste separately. there were no real waste prevention measures or investments and there is still no visible processing industry. it is therefore very important that the union sets the course, including for hungary. statistics show that virtually any community can achieve a 50% waste reduction by implementing dry recycling and home-based separate collection of organic waste. however, when imposing new obligations, we cannot ignore their feasibility and their costs. for example, can additional investments be built on the ispa projects? can the original contracts be amended? if not, then despite the need to increase separate collection, despite the legislation to reduce the amount of waste landfilled, the contracts concluded for 20 years require that the waste collected be landfilled in the built-up landfill. the adoption of this directive should not delay the possibility of making amendments to existing contracts. i congratulate the performer on his excellent work. thank you very much.
madam president, i have to ask you... the waste directive in its present form unfortunately threatens the spread of biogas use. i fully agree with my colleague mr schnellhardt of the european people's party that this directive is not suitable for biogas production, either in terms of the use of slurry or municipal waste. the waste directive in its present form unfortunately threatens the spread of biogas use and the jackson report is therefore very questionable. the definition of animal manure used in biogas production as waste in the waste directive is not clear. if it were to be covered by the directive, it would make it impossible to produce biogas from animal manure, which has significant energy, environmental and climate protection benefits. this legal inconsistency needs to be clarified as soon as possible and the commission's position on the biogas directive should therefore be adopted.
thank you, mr president. most of europe's rivers are shared by several countries, sharing both the benefits and the responsibilities of rivers. one member country gets the same quality of water as the previous one. for example, the danube flows through seven countries, the drau through six, and the rhine and the tisza through five. this is a major challenge and requires a high level of cooperation. hopefully, the adoption of the legislation will also end the seven-year-old foaming of the river rabah, because the only wild water river in hungary is currently only distributed to you and it is advisable to be painted in bathing suits that can be seen on leaflets and posters. rubber is just a litmus test, of course, that something is wrong with the current regulations, because if everyone is following all the limits, and there's still a thick foam on the river, then the regulations are not good. that's why we need to change now, and that's why i'm asking everyone to vote for the compromise package tomorrow. thank you very much.
my colleagues have already told me that fresh water is perhaps the most valuable resource of the 21st century, and i have to agree with that, with that idea. it is also true that we are doing well in europe, both in terms of quantity and quality of freshwater. i want to bring to your attention a question that has not been addressed before, and that is the fact that with climate change, precipitation is becoming more extreme, and with it, the distribution curve of freshwater availability, which means long, hot, dry summers and flood-like rainfall across europe. therefore, in addition to all the environmental care mentioned above, there is a need for water management that, unlike the current system, basically captures water and allows it to be stored for the dry season. and it would be very important to have this become a european community policy, so that we can preserve the quantity of fresh water, and the quality is ensured by this legislation. thank you, sir.
as mentioned in the previous item, a significant proportion of europe's natural disasters are water-related: droughts, floods, forest fires. one of the roots of the problem is in traditional flood control, where if there's a flood, we're interested in draining the water as soon as possible, and a few months later, we're surprised at how important it would have been to properly store rainfall during floods, extreme rainfall, in the event of drought or forest fires. so it would be very important, and in a sense, it would be preventive, if we could change our entire water management, change it to the idea that every drop of fresh water is a treasure that needs to be properly preserved for more difficult, drier times. and it would be very important, especially in the new member states, that this should become a community policy, and that we can build this up as a community policy from common resources, and in this way mitigate the damage of floods, droughts, forest fires.
in writing. poverty is a complex, relative and multidimensional problem, which raises economic, social and cultural issues. yet we must act against it, because in 2006 16% of the total population of the eu25 (78 million) lived below the poverty line! when the lisbon strategy was launched in march 2000, the european council called on the member states and the commission to act in order to achieve a significant reduction in poverty by 2010. having a measure of poverty is an important step, because it's important to recognize the problem in order to address it. i welcome the fact that 2010 has been designated as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i hope that the year will contribute to the exchange of good practices and to the launching of new initiatives in all areas, in particular poverty prevention, monitoring, financial mechanisms and the fight against child poverty. it should be noted that surveys show that women are much more at risk of poverty than men and this is particularly true for women who are cumulatively disadvantaged. it is essential that the fight against poverty be based on the principle of equal treatment, so that the european year will also be marked by equal treatment. genuine equality of opportunity between men and women is a fundamental prerequisite for reducing the risk of poverty, as women are less likely to fall victim to poverty if they have a decent and well-paid job that they can reconcile with family responsibilities.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, mr. president. officer, please. my fellow officers. there are regions and people in those regions who are not able to take advantage of the opportunities that we, with european funds, are trying to provide them, so that they can catch up with the eu average as quickly as possible, so that they can end the poverty in which they live. i have initiated this report to examine the reasons why we are not able to achieve progress in these areas and to make recommendations to reverse this process, to stop it. as the european commission's fourth cohesion report shows, cohesion policy is working very effectively at country level. in practice, in those countries that have already joined, that are receiving cohesion support, more progress has been made, a good track of catch-up has been started. however, if you look at it a little bit further down, the differences between the regions don't diminish that much. i would like to take hungary as an example, where the central region has reached 110% of the average gdp per capita in the european union, while in hungary there are four regions out of seven with a gdp per capita below 45%. but at least here, those differences don't grow. however, as this fourth cohesion report points out, the disparities between regions are in many cases continuing to grow. why is it that some regions are able to take advantage of the opportunities and others are not? if we look a little bit, we find very serious structural reasons behind this, spatial structural reasons. in these areas, where there is little development, there is clearly a lack of human capacity to bring about the right projects, a lack of basic infrastructure to bring investment to these areas, a lack of proper education, and a lack of proper health care. there are several regions where male life expectancy is more than 15 years lower than the national average, such as hungary. what are we supposed to do? since this is a very complex problem and it is clearly focused on a few small areas, small areas, i believe that we need to examine whether it is right to look at cohesion policy only at the regional level, at the level of the regions, or whether it is worthwhile to examine whether in some small areas where the biggest problems are, there is a need to take more focused, more targeted measures. so the first thing we need to do is to look at what statistics we can use to make decisions. when i wrote the report, i was aware of the problem, but i cannot give you a specific statistical comparison because there are no comparable statistics at the level of the microregions across the union. we must now examine whether, as these are predominantly rural areas, it is right to link rural depopulation to agricultural policy. would it not be much more appropriate to try to solve the rural problem within the framework of cohesion policy, with cohesion instruments, and this would only be complemented by what agricultural policy can add to this? i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive work they have done in preparing this report. at the same time, i would like to point out that after several weeks of negotiations, after i had accepted the report of the people's party, which made a very substantial change in one of the most important points, the people's party voted against its own point, and after that i have to ask myself what do we want? are we willing to say that there is a problem and we don't want to achieve anything else, or are we willing to face the problem and propose that we change our policy and focus more on where we can solve the problem? thank you very much for your attention.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, mr. president. officer, please. my fellow officers. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner not only for her response to this report and to this debate, but also for the work that she is continuously doing to make this policy better and more effective. i appreciate your efforts very much and i thank you very much for your open attitude towards my report. i'd like to answer some questions that have come up. first of all, i think that if we take the problem seriously, then just as we took seriously the need for the lisbon process, the need to ensure the implementation of the lisbon process in cohesion policy, and we have introduced a loophole system in cohesion policy to ensure the lisbon process, we can also do something about the territorial concentration of poverty if we want to. it's a matter of will. first of all, the people's party also has a primary. i want to tell mr. nistelrooy that if we were to remove item 17, the report would say that we agree that there are small communities who cannot take advantage of the opportunities that we provide. we agree that these are micro-regions, but we would like to delete the point in the report where we ask the commission to consider whether it would not be more effective to tackle these micro-regions at micro-regional level. i still don't understand why this is necessary. i want to tell mrs. petre that i think this is a regional political report. there is no place for ethnicities in the regional political report, and i don't understand why we should talk about ethnicities anyway. in the case of romania, if we're talking about an ethnic approach, who do i put in the report? the roma, who live in very poor conditions in certain areas? the boars, who also live in very poor conditions in a certain area? or the romanians in the mountains? it cannot be defined in this way, we need a complex indicator, a complex approach and integrated implementation. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. to promote employment, growth and competitiveness, the european union must make full use of its entrepreneurial and labour potential. given that a large proportion of the almost 10 million roma in europe are affected by structural and/or absolute unemployment and by participation in the grey and black economy, the integration of roma can have a decisive impact on the outcome of the lisbon agenda and cohesion policy. the report notes that while cohesion policy has helped the poorest regions to catch up in socioeconomic development, much more is needed in terms of both quantity and quality. the european commission and the member states should seek to coordinate and complement the available sources of funding, and eu financial instruments, notably the european social fund and the european regional development fund, should support a range of specific programmes, from micro-credit for entrepreneurs to infrastructure developments. the identification and removal of general and specific obstacles is essential for the success of the programmes and the targeting of funds. the declining regions, faced with complex problems, are unable to generate the resources needed to supplement the community aid they are entitled to, and the roma are particularly disadvantaged by low levels of education and by generational unemployment.
thank you for your time. we have reached a great moment, as parliament and later the council can decide legally that the first former cis and warsaw pact state can join the single currency area. congratulations to the casa reporter on a great and outstanding job. it welcomes the fact that slovakia has fulfilled all the conditions which were stated in the treaty as a condition of accession. this is the result of ten years of work. i think it is important that we really only give an opinion on whether the candidate country has fulfilled these conditions, otherwise we discriminate between member states on the basis of whether they join earlier or later. therefore, the report should not examine precisely defined sustainability criteria, in particular inflation or debt, or real convergence in numbers and separately, since all euro area member states should be given the same confidence in their ability to achieve sustainability from the first moment of membership. especially if his debts are small and decreasing compared to other club members. this is an important issue in the further enlargement process. the slovak government has a great responsibility. from the moment of the exchange rate freeze, i.e. from july, it must prove that it is not only interested in its own entry, but also that it has a responsibility for the other countries in the region and, in this light, it must use all the means at its disposal to contain inflation, i.e. to keep it within the reference value, proving that it is not irresponsible to combine the well-founded and justified fears of several of our colleagues and of the ecb that, after the removal of the incredibly large exchange rate intermediate, it will not be able or will not be willing to contain the import price and the inflationary pressure resulting from the lock-in. on the other hand, it is not here that the unresolved issues of enlargement should be settled, but separately, such as: whether the candidate member states should submit their applications in time, what we mean by the time lag between the commission's opinion and the decision, what the concept of real convergence is, or how realistic it is to assess the achievement of exchange rate stability. but this is not the time to do so, it has to be done selectively and discriminately, so i will refrain from voting on these issues now. thank you, mr. president, for the floor.
thank you very much, mr. president. the new waste directive contains compromises and can therefore be attacked from several angles. i understand the concern of the environmentally conscious citizens who have petitioned me to reject the bill. i must also say that a number of my individual amendments have been incorporated into the text, and they were born in a progressive spirit in cooperation with the green organisations. the main merit of the directive is the adoption of a waste hierarchy. prevention comes first, then recycling in various forms, and then waste, which should be avoided if possible, but at least reduced. i voted for the directive because i believe in the hierarchy. we hope to improve the law in the future.
thank you very much, mr. president. i was very pleased to vote for the legislation on environmental quality standards for water, and i would also like to thank all 610 of my colleagues who voted in favour of the legislation. we have managed to produce a good, forward-looking directive once again, a proposal which re-includes the principle of regulation and responsibility between member states for transboundary waters, a proposal which shifts the emphasis from emission to emission, that is to say, it puts the interests of the riverine fauna first, rather than those of industry. a law that imposes strict limits on 33 substances, mainly pesticides, chemicals, industrial materials, heavy metals. now it's up to the council to support the legislation, to promote the cleanliness of our rivers, the cleanliness of our rivers. governments, will they stop the overpollution of the râba and similar european rivers? thank you very much.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy. - thank you for your time, mr president. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! in recent years, rising prices and opaque regulation have led to a marked increase in dissatisfaction among energy consumers. it is therefore of particular importance that the european parliament should soon give its blessing to a package of legislation to facilitate the more efficient functioning of the price market. i believe that the price spike and the growing vulnerability of consumers are largely due to the inadequate functioning of the market. in many member states today, consumers still compete for service providers, rather than the other way around. in hungary, for example, liberalization now means higher prices and a deteriorating quality of service, thanks to the government's failure to open up the market. this situation could be ended by the adoption of the report package discussed today. the new regulation will finally create real competition in the energy market and allow providers to compete for consumers. the energy package can also create more favourable conditions for investments that are essential for the future of europe's energy supply. it promotes the cause of energy efficiency, and i believe it will facilitate the spread of renewable energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. this is particularly important because the runaway cost of energy has become one of the most important drivers of poverty. i believe that energy policy ambitions should always be viewed in the light of consumer satisfaction. we are now taking an important step towards more effective regulation. the package of proposals will ensure that competition is stimulated while improving security of supply. we hope that its adoption will allow european consumers to avoid facing unaffordable prices in the future due to insufficient regulation. thank you very much, mr. president.
madam president, officer! we have made a huge step in one year, because a common energy policy can be a huge step for the whole union. an energy policy that serves the strategic interests of the eu member states, the rights and protection of europe's citizens, the competitiveness and growth of the european economy and the protection of our environment. the five proposals envisage a market integration in which, in addition to the separation and transparency of energy production, transmission and distribution tasks, the fundamental rights and protection of energy consumers are given greater emphasis than ever before in the transformation of the operation of energy companies. the clean competition of the market, the promotion of crossborder energy trade and the quality of consumer demand will have to be monitored by an authority independent of industry and governments, with greater powers than at present, in the framework of a european coordination. this is why european legislation has moved decisively towards the creation of the european agency for energy regulation and cooperation. the draft report prepared by my colleague mr brunetta, and subsequently taken over by mr chichester, serves this purpose. i'm glad i had the chance to work with them as a socialist co-reporter. i consider this jointly drafted bill a significant success, which, by creating a serious, independent, strong european agency, will promote both cooperation between national regulatory authorities and, as the main objective, the development of regional markets and the development of networks. we as socialists insisted on the establishment of a strong and independent authority, because we must know that in a liberalised european market everyone wants to buy where it is cheapest and everyone wants to sell where it is most expensive. therefore, there will be a real need for a regulatory authority to act against potential market distortions. the interest of hungary and all the other smaller member states is precisely this: the establishment of a strong authority that ensures the independence and cooperation of the authority, the transparency of the market and the implementation of development investments. mr. president, i have to go. you have all been reminded that europe's energy supply is not an ideological issue. the world has changed forever. continents are entering the energy race, and let's face it: no one can be shut out of electricity or motorization. energy policy aims at securing europe's energy supply and competitiveness. i would like to conclude, however, by saying that the socialists believe that the consumer should be treated as a central element of european energy policy. we regret that our conservative colleagues will not support the introduction of a consumer charter. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. officer, please! my colleagues! as decision-makers, we must be aware that any action has an impact outside the target area or even the opposite. we promote cycling and public transportation to protect the environment, but are we thinking about ourselves, about people? pedestrians and cyclists are served and often endangered by motor vehicles. in europe, 8,000 vulnerable road users die and 300,000 are injured each year. so thank you for the work of my colleague, mr. ferrari. his report points to a strong reinforcement of the commission's initiative. i am convinced that the reduction in the period of time for the introduction of the package of measures to strengthen active safety in the regulation will contribute to the efforts to reduce road accidents. the creation of an effective collision avoidance system would further help to protect pedestrians. i agree with mr koch that it should be cheap and accessible. in addition to continuously developing active safety technologies, manufacturers should continue to pay attention to the development of passive safety elements, as both are needed to achieve the objectives. i consider it important that the application of the changing technical possibilities can be continuously reviewed in the light of technical changes. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam president, i have to go. i would like to start with what the vice-president of the commission started with, namely that this is indeed a bilateral matter. on the one hand, it is a very technical question - but i would add that it is our job to solve the technical problems and the related tasks, and we must understand them - and on the other hand, it is a new opportunity for citizens, because, through their freely elected representatives, who are directly elected, the new procedure, the new control procedure, actually gives them for the first time the real opportunity to control the implementing provisions and the normative provisions of the european commission. you've heard a lot of stories, mostly from eurosceptic circles, about the european commission and the european bureaucracy wanting to regulate a lot of little, detailed things. from the size of an egg to the color of a pepper, we hear all kinds of horror stories. well, we don't know how true that is, of course. in any case, the myths surrounding the brussels bureaucracy are still alive today. one reason for the persistence of this myth is that the european parliament has not yet had a genuine power of control over the commission's delegated acts and normative acts. this current process, which will be completed - at least in part - by the two votes tomorrow, will enable parliament to exercise this control, and these normative acts will now be subject to political control, and to put it in the usual terms of the democratic deficit, i must say that this is a significant step. otherwise, without a treaty amendment, it's a significant step towards eliminating the democratic deficit. i have always been on it, and so has parliament, since the agreement between the european commission and parliament, which is the basis for this change, was signed in 2006. i have always been in favour of not having to wait for the treaty of lisbon to extend this power of attorney to parliament. we do not have to wait, because the agreement between the two institutions and the proposal put forward will remedy these problems to a considerable extent. moreover, today no one will be able to say when the treaty of lisbon will actually enter into force. parliament needs these licences. and perhaps a warning to ourselves, members of parliament, because this is a huge task: the council has been doing this for many years through the comitology committees. this is a completely new task for parliament and we have a lot of work to do to make sure that we can really exercise this new, opening licence. and it is not just that we can exercise these powers as a parliament, but that we are now obliged to do so, because the citizens can hold us, as elected representatives, accountable for the way in which we have handled these matters. i would like to thank the commission very much for putting forward these proposals, and i would like to point out that only 12 of the 30 or 46 dossiers on the so-called 'third list' have been submitted, and we would ask it to submit the remaining 34 dossiers as soon as possible so that we can discuss them. we have successfully concluded negotiations with the council on packages one and three. i have great confidence in him and the council's commitment to the company to continue this process and hopefully by the end of this year we can solve, we can complete this process. this will of course require further cooperation between all the institutions. this is also important because in this case both the commission and the council are giving up important constitutional powers in favour of parliament, so i would say that it is very honourable and we thank you for giving us these rights, but i am convinced that you have done this in the interests of a better functioning, more transparent and more democratic union, in order to eliminate excessive bureaucratic procedures in the democracy of the european union. i thank the institutions for their cooperation and i thank all the committees for the rapid procedure by which parliament has resolved this matter, at least as regards the first and third packages. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is the honorable house. in fact, i have little choice but to thank my colleagues on the legal affairs committee and on the other committees for their close cooperation and all the staff who have helped me with this very complex and difficult matter. i am very pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the council on this matter and i hope that we can conclude this process at first reading. and i would also like to express my hope that this process will continue at the same pace and pace as the second and fourth packages - the fourth omnibus package is perhaps a little more difficult and more convulsive - but negotiations have already begun on this, and i am very confident that there is a good chance that by the end of this year, or even earlier, we will be able to conclude this process and officially start this process. the treaty of lisbon, by the way, introduces this system in the delegated acts itself, but it would have been wrong to waste two years without the comitology procedure. i am convinced that parliament needs this learning process, to get its bearings on these things. one of the speakers mentioned that it is important that we ourselves can distinguish between the relevant and the irrelevant issues, indeed it is the job of legislators to be able to focus on the relevant issues, therefore certain powers should be delegated to the executive, to the commission, but we should keep in mind the possibility and the right to control these implementing acts. the comments made were incorporated into the proposal. i thank you very much for your attention and i wish us, the commission and the council every success in the remaining tasks, because there are now some 60 pieces of legislation, the vast majority of which are still to be dealt with and hopefully will be dealt with in the second half of the year. thank you very much for your attention. thank you so much for the audition.
in writing. i am one of those who believe that after the irish nation, things are not the same in europe as they were before. one thing we certainly cannot do is ignore the result of the irish referendum. i am also one of those who believe that the ratification process must continue, that each member state has an equal right to express its opinion on the common future of europe. we must solve this complex puzzle by listening to the voice of the irish people and taking into account the views of all the other member states who want to continue on the common european path. the equation is difficult, we have to take every opportunity to evaluate and we need all 27 member states to do that. i believe that 27 member states must find a common solution and decide together on the next step. as president barroso said: 27 member states have signed the constitutional treaty, so 27 member states must find the right answer together on how to move forward, how to find a solution and how to move forward from a deadlock! other
in writing. there are several ways of looking at the irish referendum. the people have won. that is a simple fact that cannot be denied. at the same time, a significant proportion of voters did not know what they were voting for, as shown by the fact that the campaigners of the 'no' vote referred to historical injuries that eu membership would actually remedy. we may think it unfair that 53% of the voters in a relatively small country can prevent 26 other nations from deepening cooperation, from fulfilling the european dream. one thing is certain, however: in the future, we will need to discuss integration with the citizens of the union in a more meaningful, convincing and understandable way. the european parliament's culture committee is therefore launching a report entitled 'active dialogue with citizens on europe'. i was assigned to prepare the report. i ask my colleagues to help us with their ideas, to bring our thoughts together, so that we not only understand and love, but also understand and love with the citizens of europe the issue of integration, cooperation.
in writing. the country has rejected the lisbon treaty, which has so far been exemplary in exploiting the benefits of european integration. this also shows a deep crisis of confidence in politics. the failure was also due to a lack of communication on the benefits of the lisbon treaty. in ireland, the treaty was not decided, the referendum was guided by domestic issues. the institution of a referendum has proven to be an inadequate instrument for deciding such a complex issue. the lisbon treaty is more than an institutional reform of the union, with the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, europe becomes a true community of policies and values. this is a qualitatively new stage in the development of european integration. the irish referendum is a big deal, but it's up to us whether the european union is going to be thrown into another crisis or whether we are going to react quickly and decisively this time. in the present situation, the biggest mistake would be to renegotiate a compromise that has been difficult to reach, and we must therefore preserve the treaty of lisbon in its entirety. almost two thirds of the member states, including hungary, have already ratified the treaty. the ratification process must move forward. ireland must decide as soon as possible whether it wants to participate in further deepening integration, as one country cannot keep up with the 26 others who want to catch up. i hope that the european council meeting tomorrow will find a way out of this situation. the european construction must continue, and for that the lisbon treaty is needed.
rapporteur. − mr president, as a result of the vote just cast, for the first time parliament acquires the real right of control and veto over the normative executive acts of the european commission on an equal footing with the council. by adopting the two omnibus packages we take a very big step in eliminating the democratic deficit of the union. i also want to remind colleagues that our new power of control over the eu executive requires from us more work than before. parliament has to prepare itself for the new task of the comitology procedure. i thank the council, and especially the slovenian presidency, and the commission, particularly because they both are giving up important and so far exclusive rights and conceding them to parliament, and they are both losing exclusive powers. i would also like to thank our colleagues in the respective committees who understand the importance of the new empowerment of the european parliament. they acted very quickly and flexibly on this dossier. our vote today will contribute greatly to a better, more democratic and a much more transparent european union. thank you for your support. (applause)
i would like to add my explanation of vote to the weber report. as a member of parliament, i consider the adoption of this report to be an important first step towards an eu migration policy. but as a human rights lawyer, as a minority rights lawyer, i think it's justified to vote yes. the weber report is the result of a difficult compromise in which parliament was able to incorporate a number of humanitarian and human rights considerations into the text. where there's no regulation, there can be progress. where there is already a wider range of regulation, you cannot reverse the better standards. as with any compromise, there are weaknesses in the text, vulnerable points, so i understand the reservations of the religious organizations, the civilians, and i agree with them that the floral language of the text should not be used to ignore humanitarian, human rights considerations. this text cannot be the basis for new tragedies, for the breakup of families in the lives of migrants who have already suffered a lot and who are looking for a more humane life than ours. thank you, sir.
we have to expect a sustained high level of oil prices. the european union and its member states must prepare for any eventuality. we need to invest much more in the development of low-energy, environmentally friendly technologies, as commissioner piebalgs said, in renewable energy sources and in the establishment of biogas plants, than i was the rapporteur for. conscious energy conservation is also important, such as better insulation in homes. we have no miracle drug, we cannot detain it at our borders, but we must also look for short-term solutions. i ask the european commission to allow the member states, and hungary in particular, to reduce the excise duty on gas oil temporarily, at least temporarily, because the united states has a huge competitive advantage in this area. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the security woman. in his inaugural address, president medvedev expressed his belief in democracy and considered the restoration of the rule of law to be his most important task. if you not only talk about it but actually do it, you have a real chance of making a real difference in your relationship. we have no unreasonable expectations, but we are open and confident. it is in our fundamental interest that russia be a stable and predictable partner, contributing to the resolution of frozen conflicts, to the prevention of nuclear proliferation. we see russia as a partner, but they have to decide whether they see us as a partner or as a rival to be played off against. we welcome the intention of the new partnership agreement, which should cover the energy sector and include the principles of the energy charter. europe must act decisively and unitedly in the negotiations if it is to achieve real results. i regard it as a positive sign that the summit will take place in the centre of chanti-manysi, which will also host the world congress of the finno-ugric peoples. i hope that this is not a one-off gesture to the finno-ugric peoples, but a genuine intention to improve the situation of the finno-ugric peoples, to ensure their rights. and here i ask the commissioner and the commission to speed up the preparatory work for the preparatory action to assist the finno-ugric peoples, because we see that there is a very big backlog in this area. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the forthcoming summit will break more than a year and a half of stalemate and hopefully bring substantial progress in eu-russia relations. the union needs russia, but make no mistake, russia needs europe just as much as russia needs europe as an economic partner and as an energy consumer. we are interdependent on energy and on many other issues. that's why i think the fears of the growth of russian influence are exaggerated, although there are many statements by russian leaders that support this. in order to further develop the strategic relationship between the european union and russia, it is crucial that mutual visa-free travel is achieved as soon as possible and is necessary for the further development of relations. finally, as president of the european parliament's forum of finnish-ugric peoples, i would like to reiterate my colleague from szent-iván's request that the eu heads of state at the eu summit support the finnish-ugric peoples. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. officer, please! my colleagues! we are becoming more and more dependent on transportation in our daily lives. the european economy cannot do without efficient road transport either. but the growing traffic is raising serious social problems. it causes traffic jams in roads and urban areas, serious environmental and public health problems, energy waste and, above all, accidents. some shocking figures to summarise: road transport emits 835 million tonnes of co2 a year; 40 000 people die on the roads every year; the cost of congestion in the union is estimated at eur 50 billion a year, equivalent to 0.5% of community gdp, and this figure could reach 1% of eu gdp by 2010. but the good news is that these problems can be alleviated. electronic stability control could save around 4000 lives a year, if the ecall could be fully deployed in europe, reduce road injuries and deaths by up to 5-15% a year, which would mean more than 2500 lives a year and savings of 22 billion euros. with the right software and real-time information, traffic jams in transportation hubs could be reduced by 40%. the above few figures show that the benefits of intelligent vehicle systems are undeniable, but they are less widespread, while in the united states, for example, electronic stability control will be mandatory in all new cars from 2012. the main reasons for this are the high cost of equipment, the lack of adequate information and the lack of intelligent infrastructure. but we must ask ourselves: can european citizens be denied the exercise of their rights? because i believe that each of them, and each of us, has the right to safe, sustainable and efficient mobility. the above problems are european in nature because of increased and constantly growing mobility, and if mobility is not optimal or safe, then we need to respond at european level. market barriers should be removed, demand for intelligent communication technologies should be stimulated and a european-wide interoperable intelligent infrastructure should be established. the european achievements in research and development in information and communication technologies should be maintained or improved, in particular with regard to the appropriate driver-driver interface. this is essential for the european economy, society and industry, as japanese and us industries are very serious competitors (to name a few). this has been recognised by european decision-makers and the smart car has been identified as one of the flagship initiatives of the e-2010 initiative. overall, therefore, i welcome the european commission's communication and i support the efforts of the parties concerned to ensure the appropriate deployment of intelligent information and safe technologies in vehicles. however, we must recognise that we are still at the beginning of the process and that we are currently informed about the developments that have taken place since the launch of the 'intelligent car' initiative. we've got a lot of work to do, and we're not doing badly. at the same time, i look forward to the next progress reports and am confident that i will contribute, with my modest means, to the goal of spreading life-saving, environmental and traffic-optimising systems as widely as possible. last but not least, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have helped me with my work: the directorate-general for information society and media of the european commission, the secretariat of the parliament's committee on transport and tourism, my dear colleagues in the house and those who cannot be here for comments, amendments, professional organisations for the many useful advice, invitations and explanations. thank you so much for your cooperation.
mr. president, i have to go. i support the report by the rapporteur, ms gurmai. mr. vice president, i have to go. the time has come to open a new era in the history of european transport by implementing intelligent transport. we know that if we want to respond properly to climate change, one of the most important tools we have, one of the most important weapons we have, is to make intelligent transportation a reality. just two years ago, here in the european parliament's plenary, i said that today, i clearly see the most important challenge facing transport as being to succeed in the deployment of intelligent transport systems in europe. then, a year later, i presented the european parliament's review of the white paper on european transport policy here in the house of lords, and then parliament clearly supported smart transport, just as it does now, as a top priority of european transport policy. then why are we moving so slowly? usually, the technology is ready. for example, the smart car, ict-based urban traffic management systems, egnos from 2009, galileo from 2013. one of europe's industrial strengths is the automotive sector, where we are indeed successful in global competition, not least thanks to the highly innovative smes associated with it. and now the developments are sweeping across western and eastern europe. in budapest, for example, two very important european centres of knowledge operate alongside the technical university. so the industry committed itself. now it is up to the community side, the member states in particular, to act. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is selective. of course, new technologies are not easy to introduce, but we can support this through, for example, well-chosen public procurement. we have a lot of tools. we ask the commission to develop an appropriate and full cross-sectoral strategy for the implementation of intelligent transport. europeans waste precious minutes, half an hour, on the roads. meanwhile, motor vehicles pollute the air unnecessarily, while personal mobility is endangered, partly because the cost of fuel for vehicles used in this way is becoming unaffordable. one of the key pillars of the solution is intelligent transport. the european citizens are sensitive to all solutions, and today all solutions, to the problems outlined here. let's move forward.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, mr. president. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! respected citizens of europe! i am convinced that this is a new era in the history of european transport, as my colleague, mr barsiné pataki etelka, has said. it is very important that all my colleagues here have spoken in favour of this report, and it is an indisputable fact that we have to be quite green to satisfy the greens, but i am glad that they are finally supporting this report. i have to say, it's very, very important. i agree with you, commissioner, that if we can save a life on the roads, we have already done something, and i believe that as european decision-makers, the protection of human life is our priority. many have given the shocking figure of 41,600 deaths on the roads. i also appreciate your support, because to get this case off the ground, we need everyone on board. i'm very proud of viviane reding and her team, and andré and juhanira, who are sitting here, and who have done this. and not just in the last few months, but in the last few years, because we had to test these technologies to see if they really worked. do you remember that back then, there were no seat belts, and now it's completely natural, or as robert evans put it, now you find a radio in every car. it'll be as natural as they are now. we need european citizens who, when they see clearly the benefits of an intelligent system, will buy it. it's important that car manufacturers are with us, because they produce 17 million cars a year in europe and they employ 2 million people in the process. it is important that the member states are here, and i have to say that malcolm harbour is right, the council is missing. the commission and the european parliament are doing everything they can to ensure that the council does not take this matter seriously enough. the council should know that it too should represent the european citizens. let's work together. i beg you, for actions must speak, not words. it is in our common interest to recognise that if we achieve results in this area, then everyone can really benefit from it, because we can travel safer, traffic will be optimized, pollution will be reduced, and european industry will be able to take the lead in information and communication technologies. this is a real breakthrough. we can't let this opportunity go. thank you for your attention, and i am very confident that officer tajani will do everything in his power to make this dream come true.
thank you very much, mr. president. allergy is a modern-day public health problem that has typically spread in europe since world war ii. one third of children today have allergies, and if we do nothing about it, half the population of europe will eventually suffer from this disease. allergic diseases are caused by contaminated food, polluted environment. and allergic symptoms can be triggered by natural and artificial food additives, spices, pollen, and other natural substances. in hungary, the biggest problem is the poppy. unfortunately, the european union does not currently have an allergy strategy, as confirmed by the commission in response to my question. the civil society organisations of allergy sufferers, and the millions of concerned european citizens, rightly expect us to take action against allergy at european level, to do something about prevention, to eliminate the causes and to ensure that patients are free of symptoms. active action against allergies could also demonstrate that the european union cares about the health and everyday problems of its citizens. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in may this year, the leaders of the romanian community in ukraine wrote an open letter to the president of romania and issued a separate statement against the discriminatory ukrainian education policy aimed at the total elimination of romanian-language education and the forced assimilation of the romanian community. hungarians living in transcarpathia in ukraine are suffering from the same anti-minority policy. the ministry of education regulation no 461/2008 provides for the transfer of education in national minority schools to the ukrainian state language, the complete ukrainization of education. the european parliament and the member states of the union, including romania and hungary, condemn ukraine's efforts to achieve the programmatic assimilation of national minorities and call for full compliance with its international obligations in the field of human and minority rights and the european charter for regional or minority languages, to which ukraine is a signatory. thank you, sir.
i would like to translate the words of andrás léderer, the president of the new generation of the hungarian liberal party. on saturday, the hungarian march of dignity started in budapest. as in previous years, this year, except for one day, they called attention to reducing prejudice against gays. this time, thanks to the molotov cocktail attacks of the past few weeks, hundreds of gay-friendly citizens have joined the march. the march was marked by unprecedented violence. several civilians, police officers and public figures were assaulted, including the treasurer of the hungarian liberal party, gábor horn, and the socialist member of the european parliament, lévai katalin. since the hungarian guard was formed, several right-wing, neo-nazi websites have been organizing aggressive attacks against a jewish ticket office, roma settlements, and now gays, while the government is apparently powerless, and the investigative authorities are unable to show any results. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for your time. the juttaug report, for which i express my appreciation and my thanks, sums up exactly what parliament thinks of the preliminary draft budget. i felt that the rapporteur and the commissioner were connected like a cogwheel, and that this could fill us with a kind of enthusiasm. there is only one small problem: jutta haug's sentences were written with a critical edge, whereas the commissioner expressed such reassuring intentions. i like intentions, but i also like to see numbers in the same form as intentions. out of the many, many things, i'm going to highlight two ideas. the french presidency, together with us, was interested in a strong europe, and unfortunately it has just gone to build it. this requires a suitable budget. france understands europe and has done a lot for it. we hope that the budgetary cutbacks will finally end. the board needs to be aware that every penny is wasted on underfunded programs. the people's party wants to see value in budget spending and is therefore ready to act to improve efficiency and to fight against dysfunctional programmes, corruption or domestic policy-driven spending. the agricultural budget is in surplus due to world market forces. i'm having a lot of ideas about what we can do with this. i am opposed to any sudden and unfounded decision, whether it be the 2008 budget or this year's 2009. moreover, the union has a significant debt in this area. the 12 new member states will have to wait 10 years to receive the same support as the old ones. competition in the single market is therefore distorted for a decade. this unfair situation was created by the alleged lack of funds. if it turns out that there is money in the agricultural budget, it is a moral duty to reduce this competitive disadvantage. the idea of diverting farm money is supported by some of the leaders of the new member states, but let no one be fooled by the sick compulsion of the post-communist leadership to conform, which once expected a pat on the back from moscow, now brussels. we must also deal with the problems of africa, and aid in the form of seeds and fertilisers in the agricultural budget is a serious reality. a shortage of goods is hardly solved by financial aid. my group will support the tripartite amendment on climate change and look forward to seeing what is behind the surprising reduction in the level of payments. thank you for your kind attention.
thank you for your time, madam president. yes, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, jutta haug, on the excellent work she has done so far, on this comprehensive resolution, which has led to the creation of a budget that can help us to achieve our priorities and also to respond to the global challenges we face, using the limited funds available. in the face of the stagflation that threatens the european union, it is an important positive step that the largest part of the budget is now allocated to the chapter for growth, employment, innovation and cohesion. this includes resources that serve the objectives of climate change and secure competitive energy supply. it would be even better to have separate chapters on these challenges, namely reducing co2 emissions, energy saving and renewable energy, thus also contributing to the development of a common sustainable european energy policy. thank you, sir.
author. - mr president, commissioner spidla, and my fellow members. at the end of june, our president, mr graham watson, and i sent a letter to the commission asking it to examine the serious situation in italy and to take appropriate measures to punish it if it violates the principles and commitments of the european union. in connection with the events in italy, several of my colleagues will mention the irregularities that have taken place in the recent period, including the collection of fingerprints. i would urge alternative solutions, as my colleague mr wiersma has said. i am very pleased with the communication the commission has recently issued, and i am even more pleased that it considers the roma problem, european integration, as regards the roma as a minority, to be serious and even more so that it considers it to be urgent. i cannot tell you how pleased i am that the new horizontal directive has been drawn up. in my view, the horizontal directive should bring together elements that could correct existing legislation. i cannot stress enough in my speeches how important it is to declare school segregation as discrimination in the legislation that this particular race directive 2000/43 has set out. the directive merely states that discrimination in schools between groups of children of different racial or ethnic origin is prohibited. this policy does not say that segregation, educational segregation is discrimination. we have a lot of evidence of this, not only from ngos, not only from the european commission and not only from various european parliament resolutions, but also from hungarian legislation, which has already proven that this is discrimination. considering this important aspect in the development of the new horizontal directive and the recommendations of the so-called 'roma decade programme' for the five member states as the development of a european roma strategy would be very important and effective for the integration of roma in europe. thank you, sir.
i welcome the fact that, after the reach regulation and the regulation of pesticides, we are now in line to regulate the use of food additives, a chemical that is so often condemned. the european public is increasingly concerned about these substances, which are suspect to consumers, as a result of the growing scandals. of the approximately 2600 different additives with e-numbers, the average person consumes about 3 kg per year without being aware of their harmful effects. a significant proportion of the additives have already been the subject of more or less well-founded allegations. additives give consumers a false impression of adding vibrant and vibrant colours to food that do not exist in nature. in addition to the health risks, they cause psychological harm to children by habituating them to unnatural foods, when it is the return to natural foods that should be promoted among young and old alike. i congratulate åsa westlund on her report, which has succeeded in ensuring that additives harmful to human health and the environment cannot be used in the future under the new legislation. it is important that hazardous substances such as azo dyes, which cause hyperactivity in children, should at least be labelled on foodstuffs, although i agree with my other colleagues that we should have adopted a ban. i regret, however, that despite parliament's proposal, additives containing gmos do not have to be strictly labelled. the majority of the european population does not want to eat food containing gmos and surveys show that at least 90% of them would expect to know whether a given food contains gmos or not. to such an extent, we cannot neglect the healthy concern of our citizens, the right to information. i have also made a statement with some of my colleagues protesting the commission's intention to smuggle in more gmos to europe. we must protect our right to natural and healthy food from everyone.
in writing. – i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteurs on these reports on food additives, enzymes and flavouring. it is essential that our parliament pays the utmost attention to these regulations as they have a huge impact on public health and we ought therefore to ensure that the amendments we supported on first reading are included in the final text. protecting consumers’ interests and ensuring food security must remain here our first priorities. we should – in line respect to the precautionary principle – avoid the use of certain compounds for which we lack reliable data and independent scientific assessment on their consequences on consumers’ health. we ought indeed to ensure quality and safe food for our citizens and should therefore develop efficient methodologies to list and monitor the effects on consumers’ health of potentially dangerous compounds. moreover, we have to increase transparency in the production, the labelling and the authorisation procedures as well as harmonising regulations on additives, enzymes and flavouring to set up a coherent regulatory package ensuring better consumer protection and public health. while ensuring consumer’s protection the real challenge is to actually regain consumers’ confidence and ensure a quality food production for their benefit.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. i am one of those who, like my party, have advocated the creation of a more cohesive parliament by raising the threshold which has been the precondition for the formation of political groups. i say that this will lead to a stronger parliament because i think it is also in the interest of the european parliament that there should be a closer link between political parties and political groups, between political groups within parliament, and that political parties should be even stronger at european level. we are faced with what richard corbett has just said, that at the moment this is a very low standard, low in comparison with other parliaments. that is why we in the european people's party supported this proposal, and we also supported the flexibility of this limit, although i would add that i would have allowed these groups to exist for a shorter period in terms of flexibility. but of course we have seen that not everyone shares this view, and i am convinced that in a european parliament where there are so many different colours, so many different political parties, so many different political views, we must always strive to reach some kind of agreement on this matter. so i was pleased to see that there was a possibility of a compromise, whereby we could set the limit for the formation of political parties higher than the current one, but lower than the one planned. i would like to make one final comment: i believe that it would be more successful to use a percentage rather than a specific number, as is the case with the number of countries and the minimum number of political groups. in this case, these ratios should not be changed continuously, especially since, in the light of the uncertainty of the lisbon treaty, we do not know for sure what the size of the next parliament will be in 2009 and whether this rule should be changed again. thank you for your attention. the people's party supports the motion.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, once again we have heard voices saying that this proposal is also about restricting the activities of certain members of parliament. i would like to call the attention of the eurosceptic members to the fact that before making such a claim, they should read the proposal. this report, this change in the rules, should have been done a long time ago, because the european parliament has long had considerable legislative powers. meanwhile, if you consider that only 17.4% of our time, of our debate time in the plenary, is spent on legislation, the rest is spent on other activities. in fact, this report enables parliament to do what the treaties empower it to do. we can therefore concentrate on legislation, and this does not mean that we should disregard the own-initiative reports, which also record very important points, but we must know that their impact is substantially less than what we can achieve through legislation. when we create legislation, we are already creating changes for 500 million people that will directly affect their lives in the coming years, whereas in the case of own-initiative reports this transition is much longer, much shorter, and therefore this parliament has to do a lot more with legislation, and this report makes that possible. we also reached agreement on the questions, because it is important that the questions really have meaningful answers. very often we as members of parliament find that we do not really get the relevant answers from the commission, whereas, as the commissioner has said, every member has the right to have his questions answered, but these should be questions which fall within the competence of the european union and the commission. i am also glad that the commission has finally rejected the limitation to two questions per month. it was a wise decision, but we can certainly achieve a better result and the effectiveness of the questions will be helped by this new rule, and for that i congratulate the rapporteur, richard corbett. thank you, sir.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the baltic sea gas pipeline is one of the most controversial issues in the emerging common energy policy. many are concerned that the pipeline will not increase the continent's security of supply, but our vulnerability to russia. it is not known whether the prices will be more affordable for the consumers concerned or whether they will skyrocket as a result of the gigantic investment. and finally, there is no clear answer to the questions on the agenda today: what are the environmental consequences of the nord stream project? i believe it is essential that the construction of gas pipelines, such as nord stream, which are intended to determine europe's energy supply for decades, be preceded by an appropriate impact assessment. of course, this must include consideration of environmental impacts. in our case, such a thorough and unbiased analysis, which also takes into account environmental considerations, is unfortunately not available. the report before us, however, sheds light on the environmental concerns that are being raised by the baltic sea pipeline. i think it is wrong that no detailed analysis has been made of the environmental impact of drilling the seabed for 1200 km. it is also unclear what danger lies in unexploded world war ii munitions found in the area. it may also raise concerns that dangerous chemicals could be released into the sea during the laying of the pipeline. these are serious questions, and without clear and reassuring answers, i find it impossible to imagine the responsible implementation of the project. i believe that environmental protection and energy security should not be at odds. if the european parliament is to become a genuine citizen-friendly institution, it must take account of the 30,000 signatures on various petitions calling attention to the environmental risks of the baltic sea gas pipeline and give a meaningful answer to the questions raised. thank you, sir.
, in writing. addressing the serious challenges of climate change, strengthening and accelerating action on the issue is an unavoidable task. it is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including from aviation, and to set an accurate emission ceiling for the period after 2012. the reduction of greenhouse gases will only be achieved if the emissions trading system is tightened. there is a need for pragmatic use of auction revenues (such as development and use of green technology), especially in sectors supported by the european union, and in this context it is worth considering the creation of a separate financial fund. the early completion of the galileo, ses and ets programmes as a whole would also contribute to fuel efficiency. climate change is a global phenomenon. all policy instruments and negotiating means should be used to involve all the world's major greenhouse gas emitters in the global reduction of pollution.
thank you, mr president. the european council, together with the european parliament, decided to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, and even by 30% in its international agreements, and by 2050 it has set a target of -60% and -80% respectively. to achieve these goals, every emitter, every industry and we as individuals need to make a serious effort in our households. if we lived in a perfect world where we had unlimited and cheap fuel available to us and where there were no growing environmental problems, i would not have voted for this legislation. i would not vote for it because it is obviously restrictive and detrimental to the new member states, including hungarian airlines. but we don't live in a perfect world, fuel is dwindling, fuel is going up, and we have to do something to stop climate change now. so, although i am aware that the legislation will also put airlines in the new member states in a difficult position, i voted for the legislation because i believe that in the interests of the future, the commonly agreed objectives must be met. and we have to stop climate change.
in writing. the surge in energy prices is a stronger reminder than ever of the lack of effective regulation in the energy market. it's no different in the gas sector. the european parliament's forthcoming adoption of the report on the gas market is therefore an important step forward. we believe that the document presented by the european commission is a good starting point for more effective regulation. the new legislative package can help to create real competition in the european market. this is only necessary because member states are highly dependent on external suppliers. europe is already 50% dependent on natural gas imports, and this figure is likely to increase in the coming decades. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the vulnerability of some member states is even greater than this. hungary, for example, is 80% dependent on a single supplier, russia. the new rules are unlikely to eliminate this dependence all at once, but they do create a more transparent environment. it promotes competition by reducing the burden on consumers. we consider it an important step forward that the proposed legislation would strengthen the existing consumer protection measures. this is especially important when we know that rising energy prices have become one of the biggest drivers of poverty. we hope that the new rules will make it possible for consumers to avoid being confronted with unbearable prices in the future.
just a few things very briefly. we are heterogeneous - i am from the new member states, for example, and i am the first person to speak here today - with a lack of capital, a weak public sector and a very unfortunate past whose return threatens us in an imperialist way. and that's something that everyone should take seriously. the other thing that's been said here is that these sovereign wealth funds have indeed served imperialist purposes in many cases, and not just in medium-term investment, but in the world's resources, see china's purchases in africa. so it's not certain that this international agreement, this code of conduct, will be enough. after proper analysis, it should also be considered whether, on a uniform basis, individual member states could take national security measures which would prevent such illicit foreign investment in strategic sectors, which would not interfere with the free flow of capital but would still provide some security. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, mr. president. as a socialist, i supported the compromise proposals put forward by miroslav ouzký. i consider it a success for parliament and the socialist group that the council has agreed to restrict the use of the two glycol solvents more widely, thus protecting the health of our citizens. a substance called degme is harmful to health by being absorbed through the skin. it's also known to limit reproductive capacity, so it's a big deal that we've banned it not just in paints, but in cleaning products, floor polishes. the commission was originally going to ban degme in paints only, but we got all the parties together to get it restricted in cleaning products. the solvent degme is harmful to human health when inhaled. the european commission proposed a ban on spray paint only, but the socialists also proposed a ban on aerosol cleaners. since there was no plenary debate, i wanted to convey the essence of the compromise proposals in this way.
thank you for your time, mr. president. organizing the olympics is challenging in every way, but it's also an extraordinary opportunity for chinese citizens to show the world that they understand the universal values and spirit of the olympics. one world, one dream: the slogan of the beijing olympic games fully emphasises and faithfully represents the fundamental principles of the games. i am confident that the olympics will provide an excellent opportunity to deepen and broaden our cooperation and dialogue with china in a number of areas. but we must not forget the earthquake in may, the devastation that left tens of thousands dead and millions displaced. we must provide support to the country in difficult times, but we must always remind the leadership of the importance of democratic reforms and we must exercise constructive criticism in many areas. i am one of those who believe that the european union should have a result-oriented human rights dialogue with china, but we must accept that results can only be achieved step by step. and yes, the results are in: it's only been a few days since direct air links between china and taiwan were restored after a decade-long hiatus. the negotiations with the dalai lama have resumed. here again, we are interested in a result-oriented, pragmatic, forward-looking dialogue that takes into account tibetan and chinese values. thank you very much.
in writing. enlargement is one of the eu's most successful policies and perhaps the most effective foreign policy tool ever known. all the enlargements so far have strengthened the union, stabilised it and generally brought the new countries closer together. the four years since the 2004 enlargement have been a time of unfounded fears and misinformation: enlargement has been an overwhelming success, from which both old and new have benefited immensely. unfortunately, some politicians, either deliberately or out of sheer stupidity, deny the success of enlargement and mislead citizens in the old member states. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we make the benefits of enlargement known to society. the rejection of the lisbon treaty by ireland is indeed a serious obstacle to further enlargement of the union. i remain confident that the eu will soon find a solution to save the lisbon treaty. however, croatia's accession cannot be held hostage until then: it is legally possible for croatia to join without lisbon coming into force. depending on the progress of the accession negotiations, croatia could therefore be admitted as early as the end of 2009 or the beginning of 2010. the relationship between the enlargement strategy and the european neighbourhood policy is a complex issue. i am in principle in favour of our european neighbours, who do not yet have a membership perspective, being able to move from one category to another in accordance with their measurable objective performance. at the same time, it is important that the union can maintain its geopolitical freedom of movement and, given its capacity for integration, decide in individual cases what perspective it offers its partners.
the eu's history to date has been one of continuous enlargement, and this enlargement is also the most visible evidence of the success and attractiveness of the european union. yet, there is a growing sense in the public of a kind of expansion fatigue, expansion apathy. this encourages all of us to be realistic about enlargement. but realism is not skepticism. it cannot mean stopping the enlargement process, much less formulating new, unenforceable recruitment conditions or resigning from commitments already made, since that would also jeopardise our credibility. after the irish referendum, it is in our fundamental, basic interest to prove that the european union continues to work and that enlargement remains an important and existing objective in the european union. this is in the interest of the member states as much as the applicant countries. thank you, sir.
in writing. – the process of enlargement has been an integral part of the development of the eu over the last 50 years. from the six founding members, the eu has enlarged to 27 member states and represents more than 450 million people the european union is more stable, more secure and has a bigger voice on international issues than before. we have experienced through the years that enlargement has been at the core of the success and development of the eu. enlargement has enabled the peaceful reunification of europe across the cold war divide. we have to agree that development of the eu has gone hand in hand with enlargement. but what is the current attitude towards enlargement inside our society? attitudes towards further enlargement are unenthusiastic, mostly influenced by non-enlargement-related issues and partly related to the lack of information about enlargement. i am one of those who are convinced that the prospect of eventual eu membership is indispensable to driving further political reform and pushing for democracy. the fear is that if the prospect of eu membership is taken off the political agenda, the balkans may slip back into instability.
in writing. mr president! in the context of the enlargement strategy debate, i would like to draw attention to the important aspects affecting our immediate neighbours, the western balkans and ukraine. the prospect of accession, and in particular the obligation to meet the copenhagen criteria, has been a tremendous driving force in modernising the candidate countries and in building the rule of law. this is the kind of momentum that the western balkans and ukraine need. if we take away the prospect of accession from our immediate neighbours, who share european traditions, history, we lose the impetus that can bring about the full rule of law in these countries. the phenomena and legislation that are immediately apparent are the anti-minority education decrees that are causing outrage in ukraine, the closure of mother-tongue schools, the loss of language and assimilation. the moment that the system of requirements is relaxed, or the goal that is worth fulfilling is removed, these systems are removed from what we call the rule of law. that's why we have a great responsibility. it is important to ensure that the criteria are met in practice, not just on paper. we need consistency in our neighbours' preparations and consistency in the union's promises and demands. our consistent behavior builds trust with our constituents and our neighbors alike.
in writing, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chair of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee, i believe that one of the greatest positives of the report is that it puts faith in the continuation of the accession negotiations already under way and offers a european perspective to the balkan countries. croatia has already demonstrated its commitment in the last three years of accession negotiations and the parliament has delivered a favourable opinion on both the 2006 and 2007 country reports. i would have thought it important that croatia, as the only country with advanced accession negotiations, should have been explicitly mentioned in the document, which is obviously being read with great anticipation by the four and a half million croats now in the country. these positive messages would be particularly important in the wake of the irish referendum. the first statements by the french presidency of the council on the continuation of accession negotiations give cause for confidence. we can preserve the eu's credibility by showing quick and effective solutions, we don't have time for another three years' reflection period, because in 11 months' time all of europe will have its say on the eu in the european elections. thank you for your attention.
three cases as the only commentator from the east side of the berlin wall. i'm disappointed that the president's speech didn't include equal opportunity. fortunately, we women from the seven political parties have written a letter, mr. president, expressing our wishes for the flower, our flower for you, cher président. first of all, i welcome the efforts of the french presidency at european level to promote gender equality, but it seems contradictory that local equality institutions are being closed down. do you propose a different policy at european level than the one you are pursuing in france? two: the president informed the french people that 350,000 childcare places will be created in the next five years. this is an important measure, as it gives men and women equal opportunities in the labour market and in reconciling work and family life. this requires good quality, affordability and accessibility for all, as a means of equal opportunities and inclusion. speaking of family life, do you think women will be able to balance work and family life if they work 65 hours a week? women are more vulnerable in the workplace and are generally not union members. yes, we need a common european immigration policy, but it should be about the rights and obligations of citizens and immigrants. the migration policy should be complemented by the integration policy of the host citizenship. thank you very much.
in writing. one of the key tasks of the french presidency will be to coordinate member states' climate change commitments. it is very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at eu level. this can happen if we take the kyoto protocol seriously and, as it says, continuously and significantly reduce emissions from the base year of 1990. it would be particularly scandalous if those member states which increased their emissions rather than reducing them between 1990 and 2005 were now rewarded by the european union with the possibility of maintaining their advantage contrary to the kyoto treaty. it would be even more outrageous if the member states that take the kyoto treaty seriously and decently reduce their emissions - and thus hungary - were to be punished by further restrictions. i hope that the french presidency will never accept such a mockery of the kyoto treaty and such negative discrimination against the new member states, including my own country.
mr president, there are threatening signs of the revival of racism, homophobia and anti-semitism in many countries of the eu. the peaceful pride festival in budapest this summer was brutally attacked by extreme right-wing groups, and stones and eggs filled with acid were thrown at the participants. many of them were injured. after that shameful event, the hungarian prime minister has initiated a hungarian charter, and here in the european parliament i would like to launch a european charter with my colleagues michael cashman and edit bauer. we condemn all kinds of violence. we cannot allow the formation of extreme organisations that want to practise their own idea of justice. we reject the rebirth of fascist ideas and prejudice against all kinds of minorities, and we strongly reject all forms of racism. we should act together against violence and intimidation with the help of legislation and also by setting a good example in our everyday lives. that is why i would like to ask for support for the european charter here in parliament as well.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. in connection with the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia, romanian president traian băsescu strongly opposed the collective rights of minorities, as they could lead to the disintegration of individual states. the european community has legitimate concerns about the crisis in the caucasus, the russian imperial aggression and threat, and the threats to ukraine and moldova. but beyond all great-power interests, the real and peaceful solution to all separatist aspirations could be the guarantee of collective human and national rights, of full autonomy. according to andreas gross, an et reporter, the most effective antidote to separatism is autonomy. president băsescu should not be afraid, just as tibet is not separating from china, nor the transylvanian hungarians, nor the szekler hungarians from romania, but only seeking to achieve their collective rights and autonomy.
thank you for your time, madam president. in the midst of the georgian crisis, the hungarian public witnessed a remarkable development. the russian ambassador in budapest made a far from diplomatic statement against the opposition leader viktor orbán, as orbán stood by georgia. the russian ambassador in other words, this cannot be characterized threatened the hungarian opposition, and through it the good part of hungarian society, with the malice of the russian state. the message is not difficult to decipher: those who vote for fidesz will have to face the disapproval of the russians. what the ambassador is saying is an open interference in hungarian internal politics, and thus in the democratic system of a member state of the european union. hungary is not alone, of course, as almost all former communist states face similar threats, and this threatens all of europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of course, schengen was a great pleasure for hungary too. let me say a few words on this subject, however, about the unfortunate situation that has developed on the hungarian-austrian border. the austrian authorities do not take into account the schengen system in many respects: although hungary has been part of schengen for almost a year, they ask passports from hungarians who cross, and impose penalties if they do not have passports. of course, this is not a common occurrence, but when it happens, it understandably and rightfully causes great controversy in hungarian public opinion. in addition, unfortunately, it is also a practice that existing roads are closed at the border, so that hungarians without passports can cross it, taking advantage of the schengen convention. i hope that we can find a way to put an end to this abuse on the part of the austrians. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. we all agree on the need to amend the schengen borders code to bring its provisions in line with the requirements of the visa information system. the commission's original proposal is problematic, however, as it requires third-country nationals to be fingerprinted when crossing the border, in addition to verifying the validity of visas. however, this can cause major disruptions at the eu's external borders, especially at land border crossings during holiday periods or national holidays. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's amendments which provide for these checks to be carried out not on a regular basis but on a sample basis, under well-defined conditions and time limits. i ask you to support this committee position in tomorrow's vote, so that border crossing is not only possible in theory, but also in practice, without long waiting times at our external borders.
we totally agree that we condemn russia for giving us citizenship, we condemn russia for its excessive military involvement, we condemn russia for recognizing abkhazia and ossetia, but we also condemn georgia because the georgian leadership should have known its geo-strategic space of maneuver. at the same time, we agree that peacekeeping forces are needed, but we don't talk about what the basis of a lasting solution would be. and that would be just a broad autonomy for the abkhazians and south ossetians under the ahtisaari plan. we're not talking about the minorities involved, we're talking about everything else, and so i think that not only is the conflict frozen, but in many ways, our thinking is frozen. we should be the ones to find a long-term solution to this problem.
in writing. georgia - the illusion of freedom? we all know that the georgian-russian war is not about georgia. my colleagues in the house know this, and so do the heads of state and government who are meeting today in brussels to discuss possible sanctions. in the midst of our work towards ever closer integration with the european union, the georgian-russian conflict was a flashback to the fact that in the 21st century, power is still decisive. russia is spending $190 billion over the next seven years on armaments and military development. and the oil and gas dollar-modernized army is not afraid to deploy at least as evidenced by august 2008. it is a conclusion that i find particularly difficult to draw as a hungarian and a former forced citizen of the soviet empire. the russian threat is alive and well, and it's now seeping into our everyday consciousness. not just through energy flows, but through the columns of chariots that line up in georgia. at the same time, i trust that my fellow mps and those attending the european summit are clear that it is not the peace of georgia, ukraine or eastern europe that is at stake in our current conflict with russia. we can set the framework and tone for the future dialogue with a unified and decisive eu response or we can set it with an overconfident russian foreign policy. the member states of the union, which have been suffering under soviet oppression for two decades, know what this danger means, whatever its ideological form. the leaders of the new member states therefore have a moral responsibility to protect their constituents from the growing external threat.
in writing. forty years since the warsaw pact troops invaded czechoslovakia and overthrew the government that sought to democratize the communist dictatorship. unfortunately, socialist hungary also took a shameful part in the operation, along with the other soviet satellite states. serving the imperial arbitrariness of moscow. that's why we demand the slovak and czech people. this is particularly painful for us hungarians, since twelve years earlier, in 1956, soviet troops had similarly strangled the hungarian revolution. with the prague spring's collapse, moscow was sending a message: in the sphere of influence it had conquered from europe at the end of the second world war, it could do what it wanted, and there were no limits to the imperial impudence and hypocrisy of soviet russia. there is only one way to fight this - to stand firm and decisively for the principles of civil liberties, democracy and national sovereignty, to act against aggression. this must be the clear message of democratic europe today.
thank you, mr president. it is gratifying to see that a community strategy is slowly, perhaps too slowly, being developed to deal with this issue. i agree that the fight against tax evasion should be integrated into the individual national obligations of the member states and into the community's lisbon programme. my comments: i do not agree with the argument in the parliament's report that increased tax competition would unnecessarily distort the internal market and undermine the social model. this reflects the obsession with imposing minimum tax rates in every tax jurisdiction that exists, which would cause an inflationary effect and an injustice because it would hurt those who have otherwise managed to keep their public finances in order and can reduce taxes. in the case of indirect taxation, which is a community matter, it is also unacceptable to have a policy of referring exclusively to minimum values without regulating the maximum side. i would point out that the abuse of income tax is rooted in the raising of minimum levels, which encourages the expansion of the black economy and the production of household products, which is contrary to all community policies. the third. in the area of value added tax, i welcome the policy of slow steps and the experimental idea of reverse taxation, but here we also need a firm step forward. i believe that, with the current level of technology, it is possible to have a smooth functioning internal market for crossborder transactions and for the supplier to collect and transfer vat to the country of destination. this is of course a matter of improving the cooperation skills that are still lacking among the tax authorities in the member states, and we can achieve this with a big push after the introduction of the euro and the birth of the payments directive. finally, i consider it important to take action on the operations of companies outside the union, especially offshore companies, since tax revenues are often diverted there before taxation, and then returned to eu companies in the same direction in the context of complex transactions, for the purpose of tax avoidance and not to choose a favourable tax location. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. the commission's preliminary announcement of the social package has given hope to social democratic parties and citizens who feel responsible for solving social issues. the accumulated debts and the newly raised questions painted a startling picture of how little had been accomplished and how many problems remained unresolved. the fact is that economic growth over the past decade and a half has not erased the gap between rich and poor, but has actually widened it. and the rivalry of poverty has taken on a new dimension. every country has its poor, and every member state has its own level and quality of poverty, but we know it hurts the same. whatever one and a half dozen documents the social agenda foresees will be produced, the identification of european citizens with the union can only be strengthened by something concrete and tangible, offering the possibility of common ascent instead of rival poverty. i am pleased that, following several calls from the council and the european parliament, the commission has carried out a survey of the situation and practices affecting the roma. unfortunately, it does not set out the framework for a long-term roma policy. it is also questionable whether this document encourages enough concrete action, whether it gives a prospect of accurate assessment or of a lack of action by member states that deviates from the desired practice. i feel like i'm lacking the necessary resolve. the other joy is the discrimination policy for us. parliament and the commission were divided on the need to regulate the prohibition of discrimination in a comprehensive directive and, in line with the social-liberal position, we did not finally give priority to the discriminated groups. it is expected that the directive will also allow for the comprehensive protection of persons and groups at high risk. and this is very much needed because hate-mongers, racists, people who only want to give to the deserving, can find support among the rival poor. the voters are always right, but they can be misled by populism. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. the commissioner's expectations were beautifully expressed in his speech, but the documents in our possession do not reflect this. there's a small, small semantic problem: discrimination should not be called an expansion of opportunity. for four years, i've been talking about the segregation of roma children all the time. in addition, half of our children, millions of roma children, are classified as disabled. what is this if not discrimination? in the process of creating the horizontal directive, the omission of the topic of segregation is an unforgivable crime. you must involve commissioner barrot in your work and you must not ignore the demands of parliament. in at least four resolutions, we call for a roma integration package with legislation, a budget and a committee coordination group to ensure the effective implementation of future programmes. officer spidla can't solve this issue alone. thank you, sir.
in writing. one of the main outcomes of the european commission's renewed social policy agenda should be to restore the rights of europe's roma as european citizens and to stop their social disintegration. i'm glad the document supports that. roma are significantly worse off than the majority in the areas covered by the agenda, including education, the labour market, housing, discrimination and health. lifelong learning programmes that provide roma with appropriate employment and self-employment skills can be a useful tool in the fight against unemployment. anti-discrimination tools need to be transposed into national law so that victims of discrimination can bring cases to court and national authorities and equality bodies can identify and punish violations. the structural funds can be much more effective in reducing social exclusion of roma, but this requires at least the right of consultation of roma civil society organisations in the selection, design, implementation and evaluation of projects financed by the funds and the launching of programmes to prepare roma civil society organisations for successful applications. we hope that the social agenda will provide adequate answers to these questions. i consider it important that these issues are discussed at the large-scale roma conference on 16 september and i hope that the issue of roma social inclusion will be put on the agenda of the european council both as a matter of its own and as part of the social agenda.
the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. - thank you very much, madam president. the european union has made progress in the last decade in the electronic communications sector. however, there are still cross-border problems and inequalities in terms of broadband access, the spread of the digital society and services. if we really want a 'common' market, we must create the conditions for it. as a result of the debate over the past months, we voted in favour of the creation of the so-called bert, which would simplify cooperation between national regulatory authorities and guarantee effective participation. we continue to believe that bert should be accountable and transparent to the european institutions. the commission's proposal is to set up a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, which will be responsible for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. we can't help it. we must continue to fight with the commission to protect consumers' interests, both to ensure that they pay only the necessary costs for the new technologies that are coming into use and, like roaming, that they are not misled about billing. thank you, sir.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, it is important to underline that the telecom evolution is not only a technological and economic process, but also a social and cultural event. we should maintain and sanction the leading role of europe in this process. two aspects should be taken into consideration: general and democratic access to electronic communications services, which means that everyone should have the right to access such services, and also the principle that culture and educational heritage should be transmitted and respected. the committee on culture has tried to strike a balance between these interests. as the draftsperson in the committee on culture on the body of european regulators in telecom (bert), i only focused on the aspects which come under the responsibility of the committee on culture. the bert should be open to contacts not only with industry and the consumer groups, but with culture interest groups as well, as they can provide useful and reliable information on cultural aspects. i think if we use the telecom evolution properly, the whole process can contribute to making europe the world’s leading knowledge society – which is our main goal.
in writing. the adoption of the legislative package on the agenda is an important step forward in the deployment of broadband communications technologies. the dissemination of these is key to our ambition to make europe one of the most competitive regions in the world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the opening-up of the telecommunications market has been steadily accelerating since the second half of the 1990s, with a marked improvement in the quality of services. however, we believe that there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of strengthening competition and consequently breaking down consumer prices. however, the emergence of new technologies also makes it timely to review existing legislation. we welcome the fact that a key pillar of the new regulatory framework is the review of the current frequency allocation practice. in our view, the principle of technological neutrality should apply in this respect in order to increase competitiveness. it is also an important outcome that cooperation between national regulatory authorities will also be given a new framework in the future. the new regulation has also had a welcome impact on consumer protection. it will increase transparency in pricing and reinforce the freedom to switch between service providers. we believe that the importance of the regulatory framework to be adopted lies in the fact that it enhances competition on the market without neglecting an adequate level of consumer protection.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, mr president. officer, please! my fellow members of the house of representatives! regular evaluations by the commission are of great importance in the path to gender equality, providing a clear picture of the actual situation. commissioner spidla's commitment to this case is well known. the first gender report was prepared five years ago, and we can now expect results. the 2008 gender equality report shows progress, but unfortunately also mentions areas of freeze where there is little movement. the gender pay gap has stagnated at 15% over the last five years, my colleague mentioned, which is 54 days, which is the february 22nd you mentioned. the gender ratio remains unfavourable in decision-making, and the media portrayal of women is disadvantageous. the main problem is the lack of significant progress on employment and related issues, which are key to tackling the eu's demographic challenges, economic growth and ensuring equal opportunities. these high priorities strongly call for the increased participation of women in the labour market. the quantitative success of the lisbon strategy - 12 million new jobs created, of which 7.5 million were filled by women - is not a qualitative improvement. the compulsory part-time work, the planned 65-hour workweek, the horizontal and vertical labour market, and segregation unfortunately lead to the fact that the question of reconciliation of work and private life remains unresolved, which is further exacerbated by the lack of childcare facilities. i believe that further coordinated strategies and methods need to be developed and effectively implemented in practice, as well as effective political support from member states. i congratulate the honourable member on her work, which has been of an excellent quality.
in writing. other the fight against stereotypes is one of the six priority areas of the equal opportunities roadmap 2006-2010. this is a matter of principle with far-reaching and profound practical implications, since it places women at a disadvantage, posing a significant barrier to their well-being - be it in terms of their position, employment, career advancement, participation in decision-making, or reconciliation of work and private life. stereotypes establish and maintain inequalities in all areas of life, thus causing incalculable damage to society as a whole, and significantly reducing the effectiveness of efforts to create equality of opportunity. i believe that it is important to have well-planned, coordinated actions and campaigns against stereotypes, which include, among other things, the formation of social awareness, education and the application of good practices, starting from childhood. marketing and advertising in the media play a significant role in shaping the image of women - the disadvantaged image contributes significantly to the maintenance of disadvantage, but can also reverse this trend by providing a realistic presentation of reality and opportunities and abilities. so we need to work on developing the possible tools, the measures, that we can use to facilitate this positive change. it is also essential that the existing rules are applied properly.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president! i fully agree with president parish's suggestion that we need two zero tolerance policies. firstly, cloned animals must not be introduced into the food chain under any circumstances, and we are in complete agreement on this. we are in full agreement on this and we ask the commission to ensure that no cloned animals from argentina, brazil or other countries can be imported into the european union. that's double zero tolerance, which i think is the essence of mr. parish's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, it could be summed up by not allowing it to enter the food chain, of course, it would be foolish, stupid to put a damper on genetic engineering, biotechnology research. research is one thing, the food chain is another, and thirdly, we need long-term, reliable and independent control from the industrial organization, independent control over multiple, long periods of time. thank you for your attention.
madam president, the global harmonisation of the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures is to be welcomed, and the european union should play a leading role in protecting our citizens against dangerous chemicals. the whole initiative comes from the united nations, and is therefore a global project. the globally harmonised system is a promising sign of global cooperation in environmental issues. that is why i support the adoption of the compromise on the sartori report. i have tabled more than 20 amendments in order to ensure the appropriate labelling and safe use of chemicals. seventeen of those amendments were approved by the envi committee. however, the same environmental committee also adopted several amendments from the rapporteur which would weaken consumers’ rights regarding information on the hazards of the chemicals in products. the socialist group and i voted against those proposals because the interests of consumers are vital to us. i am satisfied that the new compromise does not include these anti-consumer amendments, and i therefore propose to accept it. i am not totally happy with the compromise, but we cannot delay putting the ghs into our legislation. let us accept, as a basic principle, that companies should not invoke business confidentiality when they place hazardous chemicals on the market. concerning hazards, consumers must have the right to have all necessary information. of course, the devil is in the details, so we will see how the ghs will work in practice, how hazard signs will be indicated on the products by industry, and whether consumers understand the signs and warnings. the information should be clear and easily understandable. altogether, i hope that ghs will be a good tool to present the outcome of reach to the public, so that chemicals are trusted much more by consumers, which will help our industry as well. my assistant gergely simon, who has done much work on this and other dossiers, will leave parliament in the near future. i would like to thank him for his contribution to our common goal, which is a chemically safer europe.
thank you very much, madam president. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission and the rapporteurs on the fact that we have managed to have a constructive debate between the un proposal and the reach draft that we adopted earlier, and that has led to progress. the biggest advantage for the internal market committee is the uniform labelling, both for consumers and for businesses. let's not forget that labelling doesn't make chemicals safer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. finally, i would like to say, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we have gotten behind the un as the european union, and we must now do everything together with the un to get the rest of the world to accept this. so i suggest that we find supporters for our chemical regulation around the world, in the transatlantic economic council and other international forums. thank you very much for your attention.
thank you for your time, mr. president. i consider it extremely important to assess the sanctions that are part of eu measures and policies in the field of human rights, especially in a tense period such as the current crisis in georgia, the one before that in tibet, or zimbabwe. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs hélène flautre on her report. this sanctions policy is based on well-defined principles of human rights, international law, which are underpinned by a number of un and eu documents. the problems are not at the level of the principles but in their practical application, where we see a lack of consistency, efficiency and balance. the systematic promotion of human rights considerations is essential to preserve the union's credibility. i lack the consistency that often falls victim to daily political interests. it is equally essential to act in unison. it is useless to have common standards if there are large differences in practical application between different member states. for example, as long as the eu has stood up for human rights in tibet, there is an eu member state that is expelling tibetan refugees. in the interests of political efficiency, we need to develop a sanctions policy that is transparent, coherent and pursues well-defined objectives. in addition to a unified approach, it is important to react quickly, sometimes immediately. we see that the diplomatic windfall is making not only our sanctions policy, but the whole of the union, unrealistic. but this can only be achieved if it is accompanied by positive actions in support of the civil society concerned. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i have to go. i congratulate president flautre on her excellent and balanced report. i see three cases of double standards in the european union. on the one hand, there is a double standard when we are weighing up between two small countries, one of which is against us and hostile to us, and the other of which is friendly to the west and friendly to europe. we see a double standard between the small countries and the big powers, russia and china, because that's where economic interests come in. and there is a third double standard that challenges our credibility, our credibility, whether the european union has the right to criticize third countries on human rights, on minority rights, when there are eu countries where hundreds of thousands of people are stateless, like in the two baltic states, or there is a leading power in the european union whose constitution denies even the recognition of regional languages. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i have to go. i would like to join those who have called attention to the double standard, the inconsistency, and to point 22 of the report, which i would like to draw to the attention of mrs flautre. the soundness of country reports in the context of the issue of sanctions or sanctions policy. in september 2004 this house adopted a resolution to send a fact-finding delegation to vojvodina, in the north of serbia, which is not only a human rights issue but also a matter of solidarity, since there are many hungarian, but also romanian and german people living there who were displaced by the storms of history. and we looked at the human rights situation there. and you said this resolution was for the subcommittee on human rights to look into. that hasn't happened in three and a half years. i therefore ask that this serious situation be examined by the subcommittee, as provided for in the resolution, because only then can parliament draw the attention of the council and the commission to the real situation and play a role in sanctions policy.
in writing. – sustainable and efficient freight transport must indeed seriously be improved as the transport sector is responsible for a large share of co2 emissions in the union. as the sector is expected to grow substantially, increasing its efficiency and sustainability should be seen as an opportunity to develop its economic competitiveness and to create numerous jobs. the union should therefore allocate resources sufficient to achieve the ambitious objectives of improved mobility, intermodality in transport modes, energy efficiency, reduced consumption of oil and reduced pollution. we welcome therefore the strategic approach of the proposed freight transport action plan and its objectives: to focus on freight corridors using a combination of the various modes of transport; to promote innovative technologies and infrastructures; more efficient freight transport management and to enhance the attractiveness of modes of transport other than road. to ensure the success of a sustainable european transport policy, we – of course – have to bear in mind the importance of fostering synergies and complementarities with other european policies such as energy and environment policies. cross-border harmonisation of national rules and synergy with the other related policies are necessary conditions for the achievement of the objectives of sustainable and efficient freight transport.
in writing. the ries report on the mid-term review of the european environment and health action plan addresses important issues. in this brief space, i shall deal only with the question of fresh water. global climate change in hungary and many other eu countries is basically extreme rainfall distribution. floods and dry months alternate, which requires a new water management strategy. every drop of fresh water must be managed responsibly. this can only be achieved by bringing the eu together and by opening up substantial community funds for water management in the budgetary period starting in 2013 at the latest. this is linked to the provision of safe drinking water throughout the union, the use of heat sources in the form of thermal waters and geothermal energy. tens of thousands of european citizens have died in urban heat waves, which also require water to mitigate. our excellent experts can also help to exploit water projects in the third world in the context of eu projects. let's not forget that fresh water is perhaps the most important resource of the 21st century.
as much as mr graefe zu baringdorf is right that farmers protect the soil, there have been very serious losses in soil purity in recent decades due to intensive farming and the use of high levels of fertilisers and chemicals. this applies to the old and new member states earlier. the new member states have not had much money for fertilisers, for chemicals, in the last 20 years, so for example in hungary, they use four times less fertiliser per hectare than in the netherlands. so the real solution is the agricultural question, namely we need to manage the future in ways that protect the biosphere, in ways that protect the soil, that reduce this burden on the soil, so we need completely new methods, new approaches, to protect the soil, because this is in the interest of all european farmers. there are a lot of things that are not rational in this system, like not planting the crop after harvest, energy loss. you could plant plants, they could be compostable, and you could reduce your fertilizer load, for example. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i have to go. we are witnessing today a serious violation of the prohibition of market discrimination by german and austrian supermarket chains, which are using a boycott against the hungarian poultry farming and processing industry. these are rewe, spar, metro and kaufland stores, which are not taking over hungarian products following the boycott by an austrian animal welfare organisation. as a result, the hungarian poultry sector has suffered a loss of some huf 2 billion, and national discrimination is being applied against hungarian products, thus violating eu competition law. the european court of justice will be the court of last resort for those affected, because they are violating two eu principles: the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of nationality and the principle of equality and freedom of competition. thank you for your attention.
mr. chairman, members of the house. not only to promote intercultural dialogue, but to defend it when it is attacked. especially when ethnic coexistence begins every day in one of the eu member states, right next door. there have already been and unfortunately there may be sad consequences of the provocative, rude statements of the president of one of the slovak ruling parties, ján slota, the games on the youtube video site calling for the politicians of the hungarian minority party in slovakia to be killed, and most recently the statement of the slovak minister of education, which would ban the use of the hungarian language in public places in slovakia, or attacks the hungarian minority representatives because they participated in a forum that suppressed hungarian representatives in budapest. the consequences of tolerating extremist statements, of incitement, are already being felt. according to the latest opinion polls, more than 60% of 15-year-olds hate hungarians the most and agree with the staggering, inflammatory accusations that have been made by leading slovak politicians over the years. and the hungarians were afraid. this is happening today, and we are opening our arms, the consequences are gone, parliament, the commission, the council are busy, and we are celebrating the year of intercultural dialogue. thank you for listening.
thank you, mr president. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 15 september, the european institute of innovation and technology held its inaugural meeting in budapest. hungary and the city chosen as the centre of the institution, budapest, have a long tradition of scientific research. just think, there were 12 hungarian nobel prize winners who were actively involved in the key inventions of the 20th century. the main objective of the new institution is to promote and coordinate cooperation between european science centres, to create a network between universities, research institutes and the private sector involved in innovation. this objective is in line with the lisbon strategy's guiding principle of creating a knowledge-based society, with a focus on improving competitiveness, economic growth and job creation. please allow me, mr. president, to thank the decision-makers for choosing budapest, hungary, as the venue for this important institution. i'm sure we'll make a fine host for this institution. i would like to draw attention to the unprecedented political consensus in hungary on this issue. i sincerely hope that the institute will contribute to the success of the coming year, which the european union has declared the year of creativity and innovation. thank you for the word.
mr. president, i have to go. we see extremist ideas and violent manifestations spread between people, social groups, ethnicities, and often peoples, nations. there are political means to stop it, administrative and police means to stop it. but a forward-thinking politician is more likely to call for dialogue: not just political dialogue, which often leads to conflict, but cultural dialogue. to have a dialogue with someone about a culture, you first need to know your own culture. the year of cultural dialogue is about getting to know the different layers of our society, the lives and histories of minorities, ethnicities and nationalities that may seem foreign at first glance, not only between countries but also within countries. this kind of knowledge helps, and its lack hinders the unity of a nation, the good relations of peoples, groups of peoples, nations. in the year of cultural dialogue, i consider it particularly important to maintain a genuine dialogue between the majority and minority in all european societies, because only in this way can a real link be established between the cultures of the european countries. this is a european phenomenon which must be addressed at european level. thank you very much.
mr commissioner, mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european year of creativity and innovation is an excellent opportunity to draw citizens' attention to the union's activities in education and research, in particular its lifelong learning programme. lifelong learning is an integral part of the lisbon agenda, with one of its main objectives being to build a knowledge-based society, increase competitiveness, stimulate the economy and create jobs. when we talk about creativity, we tend to think only of scientists, engineers, designers, or craftsmen. but beyond economic and technological innovation, there is another, easier and perhaps more familiar, interpretation of creativity: creativity in the artistic sense. artists who amaze us again and again contribute greatly to the fullness of our lives, whether it be painting, sculpture, literature, music, theater, graphic arts, photography, design or, indeed, the art of cinema for the masses. artists and the works they create determine the quality of our lives. the year of creativity is a good opportunity to recognise and honour those who make our immediate surroundings liveable, influencing the tastes, values and needs of young europeans in a positive way. i see a great need for innovative and creative technology that can revolutionize the way we live. we are fascinated by fairy-tale cars, marvelous communication devices, scientific research, and innovation, but what would life be without the beautiful works of art, sculpture, graphics, textiles, creative music, or literature that surround us? i very much hope that the european union's programmes will include the moral and material appreciation of culture, especially those works which contribute to the proud sense of european identity, which makes us all feel a little better about being european. finally, although i have spoken of the arts, i hope that the newly opened european institute of technology in budapest will also make an effective contribution to the success of the year. thank you for your attention.
in writing. creativity and innovation play a crucial role in europe's ability to respond effectively to the challenges and opportunities of globalisation. the more efficient use of knowledge and the development of innovation are the lifeblood of the european economy and therefore need to be given special attention. the european year for creativity and innovation aims to raise awareness of this. the dynamism of the european economy depends to a large extent on its capacity to innovate. europe needs to increase its capacity for creativity and innovation, for both social and economic reasons. i therefore believe it is important that the european year should also be about practical measures to promote the development of innovation. the results of creativity and innovation should also be widely recognised. there is therefore a particular need to launch information and promotion campaigns, to organise events at european, national, regional and local level, to formulate key messages and to present good practices. cluster networks, the creation of knowledge triangles and the advancement of different forms of education, recognised as drivers of innovation, should be promoted. in order to foster innovation, member states should focus on improvements in innovation support services, in particular for the purpose of technology transfer, and on the creation of innovation hubs and networks by connecting universities and businesses, knowledge transfer, better access to finance.
the rapporteur. − it is a longstanding human experience that decision-making powers, especially those in executive positions, should not be left without parliamentary scrutiny. today, especially in the run-up to the lisbon treaty, we have heard a great deal about the so-called democratic deficit in the european union, and we have heard a great deal about the bureaucracy in brussels. interestingly, the very people who would benefit most from this change are not the ones who support the lisbon treaty today, the very people who would be convinced that the lisbon treaty actually provides more effective control over the executive, the european commission and the so-called european bureaucracy. i would like to make this point to all those who think that the treaty of lisbon is not necessary. i am convinced that by giving the european parliament, directly elected by the citizens, greater powers over the european commission, we are all serving this purpose. in particular, as the parliament and the council, the legislative powers, delegate more and more powers to the executive, the european commission is increasingly entrusted with the task of drawing up the detailed rules. there are many cases where immediate action is needed, where the complex european mechanism, the legislative mechanism, the council and parliament cannot come together and there is a need for a quick reaction, and in this case there is no other option than to empower the commission to act quickly and effectively in these cases. it's happening now. these two reports concern the fact that, under the agreement concluded between the european parliament and the commission in 2006, the powers and authority of the european parliament also extend to the scrutiny of acts of the commission in its executive or legislative capacity. until now, only one legislator, the council, has had the opportunity to do so. the european commission has put forward four packages, two of which were adopted at our summer session, and now the third, my own-initiative report, is about the principles on which this process should be based and how this control should be recorded. at the same time, i would like to make it clear that a good compromise was reached in the negotiations, but i would like to make it absolutely clear that this is not a precedent for the current comitology procedure or for the future. this audit mandate will be given to parliament regardless of the treaty of lisbon, which means that the treaty of lisbon, which provides for similar mandates, has come a little further and we are already implementing them in this context. this is a huge task for parliament, and parliament must provide the necessary means for this, which is why i have also acted in the budgetary field to ensure that parliament, apart from the bureaucracies, has the resources it needs to carry out this new task to the full. in other words, parliament must also be prepared to fulfil this task in full, and i believe that by doing so, by taking this step, the european union will also become more democratic, more transparent, more transparent, that is, we will take a significant step towards the control of the executive power by the legislative power, and thus by the sovereignty of the people in the european institutions. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – european roma have been subjected to low-quality education in the form of segregated education and gypsy-only classrooms, not only in the post-communist countries but in europe as a whole. roma children encounter difficulties in receiving quality education in new and old member states alike. geographical segregation of roma is a major obstacle to equality in education. the living conditions of roma make it difficult to take the steps necessary in the long battle to eliminate gypsy-only classrooms. making progress on this fight depends on highly-qualified teachers from roma and non-roma backgrounds to ensure the essential development of roma children and to change the status quo. providing highly-qualified teachers to give roma children the challenges found in mainstream schools is of huge relevance to the education future teachers receive in teacher-training colleges. if we are to expect results from our children we must provide our teachers with exemplary training. the knowledge about progressive teachings in multiculturally diverse classrooms must be a main focus in future teacher training. the goal of equalising the quality of education between schools, stopping early drop-outs, and making sure roma children make it to university and that they are prepared to face life’s challenges is not one taken lightly but one we must endeavour to fight for.
in writing. the financial crisis that started in america last year, triggered by unregulated, speculative financial processes, has not only subsided as expected, but has already shocked the whole world, including europe. the current crisis requires a long-term paradigm shift in both areas from european decision-makers in order not only to reduce the risk of a financial crisis in the future, but also to promote stable economic growth. the us developments have shown that the market alone is not able to cope with such and similar crises. the commission is therefore proposing to set up as soon as possible the central european financial supervisor, which was proposed by hungary last year and has since been endorsed by the french presidency. this would ensure, among other things, that such risky speculative transactions are placed in controllable and predictable conditions in the banking and financial system. this would be a prerequisite for europe to gradually take over the role of a shaken america in the financial world. in order to put the european economy, which is also suffering from the current crisis, on the desired growth path as soon as possible, the financial and banking world would need to finally put the financing of the real economy ahead of risky speculative transactions. one prerequisite is that the european central bank should not simply concentrate on fighting inflation as it has done in the past, but should also promote the recovery of the real economy through more favourable interest rates.
the only way to stop climate change is to stop deforestation. our efforts to protect the environment in europe will be ineffective if we tolerate environmental degradation in other parts of the world. the liberalization of international trade, globalization, is driving environmental destruction across continents. the wto rules must be supplemented by strict environmental standards, otherwise further liberalisation will lead to further environmental destruction. it is not enough to ban the illegal timber trade, we must also ban the import of products made from illegally harvested timber, furniture. do you really think cheap chinese furniture imports have nothing to do with deforestation? this report is a step in the right direction, but more radical measures are needed because the state of our planet demands it. until stricter rules are in place, we need to call on large international furniture retailers, such as ikea, to apply transparent self-restriction, not to trade in furniture made from illegal wood. and finally, deforestation is not only driven by the timber trade, the furniture trade, but also by rising agricultural prices, by rising demand for biofuels. if we allow them to trade in biofuels that are produced by deforestation, we need to know that every time we put that fuel in our cars, we are contributing to the destruction of a few square meters of primary forest.
in writing. there is no longer any doubt that deforestation and forest degradation have an impact on climate change and biodiversity. to be precise, global deforestation now affects 13 million hectares a year and is the third largest source of greenhouse gas emissions. illegal logging causes erosion, undermines the livelihoods of local communities and costs timber-producing countries between eur 10 and 15 billion a year. of course, i welcome the establishment of an international agreement on tropical timber, but that is not even close to achieving the goal. we will only get there if we succeed in getting a more comprehensive approach to temperate forests, at least in the european union. an approach that ensures that timber products are produced in a fair manner and that the entire supply chain can be traced. only such an agreement could make a significant contribution to the protection of forests and the sustainable use of timber. i have no illusions, of course, especially since this spring and summer, when i wrote a written declaration on this subject with several of my colleagues, only a quarter of the members signed it. i hope that the tropical forests will eventually turn their attention to us, to europe. perhaps, thanks to an agreement on tropical forests, the commission will come up with legislation requiring that only legally harvested timber and timber products may be placed on the union market.
thank you for your time, mr. president. the financial crisis that began in america a year ago has not abated, contrary to expectations, but has struck the entire world, including the financial markets of europe and, through them, the economy, in ever-increasing waves. the central bank has to pump huge amounts of money into the money markets in order to ensure their survival. however, in order to remedy the economic and social impact of the financial crisis, the commission needs to make progress in two areas. first, a common european financial supervisory body should be set up as soon as possible to prevent such speculative risks, thereby ensuring that europe gradually takes over the role of the troubled us money and capital markets. on the other hand, it should also ensure that the european financial sector concentrates on financing the real economy, which has been neglected so far, instead of speculative transactions. this would, of course, require the european central bank to prioritise economic growth and job creation in addition to keeping inflation in check. thank you very much.
in writing. of the tasks assigned in 2004, the commission is the most important debtor. by eliminating or substantially reducing the lack of interest in the european idea, the lack of confidence. nor does next year's programme reflect the recognition that this is a different europe from the previous period. the eu27 has a much greater economic potential than the eu15 and a more important place in the world economy. at the same time, the economic and social problems of the eu-27 are different, and the internal tensions and fears are different and more intense. the free flow of labour and services has brought hard conflicts to the surface. this is clearly shown by the french no vote which eliminated the draft constitution, and the irish vote, partly because of tensions among the staff on secondment, complicates the fate of the lisbon treaty draft. nor does the 2009 work plan mention what plans the commission has for monitoring member states wishing to apply further restrictions after the five-year limitation in order to ensure the free movement of labour. in this context, i am disappointed that the commission is not being moved to act by the increasingly alarming presence of racism and xenophobia in europe. these problems are inevitable, and they come back like a boomerang. the question is whether we deal with them when the tension is manageable or when neo-fascist groups are already rampaging through the major cities of europe. i hope we go with the former.
mr president, i would like to speak about only one aspect of energy prices, namely the price of district heating. in hungary, hundreds of thousands of households use district heating – mostly families with modest incomes – and its price is a crucial social issue. however, due to the run-down infrastructure and for other technical reasons, district heating is far more expensive than individual heating. this contradicts common sense and the basic interests of the environment. that is why, whenever i can, i urge the commission and the council to provide financial support to improve district-heating systems in order to make it socially acceptable and environmentally efficient. as long as district heating is more expensive in some member states than individual heating, it is nonsense to speak about energy efficiency.
in writing. in recent months, we have seen unprecedented increases in energy prices. the increase in energy-related costs could have a very negative impact on europe's competitiveness. however, it is precisely the most vulnerable in society that are most affected. the problem is compounded by the fact that some countries subordinate the resources at their disposal to political goals. as a result, rising energy prices have become one of the most sensitive policy issues. while no member state can avoid the impact of price increases, some countries are particularly vulnerable. due to the inaction and misguided government policies, hungarian consumers were forced to endure four times the increase in gas prices in 2008 alone. that is why the rise in energy prices has become one of the most important sources of social discontent in hungary. to keep prices affordable, concerted and consistent action is needed. every effort should be made to ensure that the system of long-term international contracts governing energy supply is transparent. at the same time, measures to promote competition and improve energy efficiency should be strengthened at both community and member state level. the european union must take substantive steps to achieve this, in particular by developing alternative energy supply routes. we also consider it appropriate to coordinate measures to protect the most vulnerable. we believe that the increase in electricity prices cannot be accompanied by a deepening of social disparities.
thank you, mr president. officer, my fellow members of the house. obesity and overweight are not just health-related, but also have broader social roots. i was pleased to see that the white paper and the accompanying report point out that the issue of obesity and overweight should not be addressed at the stage when it has become a real health problem, but rather at the root cause. i think it is important to stress that the white paper and the resolution of parliament should not be addressed to the health sector but to citizens, to communities, to society as a whole. this is a matter of the utmost importance and must be dealt with in accordance with the other european union documents, since as the causes of the problem are multifaceted the solution must be multifaceted and coordinated if it is to succeed. the promotion of healthy lifestyles should be supported in all possible ways at eu, member state, regional and local level. particular emphasis should be placed on programmes and actions aimed at educating school-age children and young people in healthy lifestyles. i must emphasise the role of local authorities, since they are largely responsible for running schools. and successful programs need to be widely publicized. we all know that the media are playing an increasingly important role in shaping our consciousness: with the power of advertising, we can make healthy eating, exercise, regular exercise and, in short, a healthy lifestyle fashionable and a model to follow. the importance of physical activity and sport in the prevention of obesity should be closely linked to the requirements of healthy nutrition, but it is far from sufficient to focus on these two aspects alone, encouraging healthy lifestyles should become a top priority in all related policies. the goal is to help people understand that eating a healthy, balanced diet doesn't mean that you can't eat certain foods at all. regular exercise doesn't mean you have to exercise every free minute. the emphasis is on moderation, which makes for a balanced diet and life. i want to thank the reporter for her work and for listening to me. thank you very much.
in writing. – firstly, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, joseph muscat, for a very comprehensive report allowing for the issue of a common system of value added tax for insurance and financial services from the point of view of businesses, tax administrations and consumers. i believe that, although it is difficult – on the basis of this proposal – to clearly assess what will be the extent of the benefits for consumers in terms of efficiency and cost reduction, we ought to ensure the legal certainty and consistency of insurance and financial service- vat related issues. as a matter of fact, it is essential to ensure that vat facilitation measures for businesses would not be implemented at the cost of the consumers. however, it is worth noticing, together with the rapporteur, that much flexibility is given to the member states, which might lead to uneven implementation results from one member state to the other. finally, i would like to put the emphasis on the fact that, given the uncertainty of the impact of the implementation of these measures, we ought to remain vigilant and therefore support the obligation for the commission to report on the issue to both the council and parliament.
in writing. – healthcare for roma has been systematically denied or rarely taken into consideration across europe, despite the fact that access to healthcare is a fundamental right for european citizens. the renewed social agenda on cross-border healthcare must address the problems roma encounter in their failure to have healthcare services within a short distance of their community. most roma live on the periphery of urban centres, and miles away from health facilities. their segregation from these services results in the life expectancy of roma being estimated at 10 years less than the national average. the prevention of and vaccination against diseases prevalent in roma communities as well as the question of emergency situations and regular health checks have yet to be resolved. another factor limiting the access of roma to healthcare stems from their lack of identity cards, which would enable them to apply for insurance or social assistance. with the fall of the communist regimes, many roma were not acknowledged, or were forgotten or erased from country citizenship records. lastly, the health of roma women must be addressed, as they are the caretakers of the roma community. if the commission is to help europeans obtain healthcare services within the eu, they must ensure this is universally and equally applied.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. as a shadow reporter on this issue, i join those who say it's not right, this system. i wanted to express the opinion of the people's party in the parliamentary debate, but as a shadow reporter i was not allowed to speak. i ask you, if media pluralism is so important, why isn't pluralism of opinion so important? i wanted to explain that we disagreed on some things, but i couldn't get a word in edgewise. in the whole of parliament, two people could speak on this subject, the rapporteur and the commissioner. and this is something that we really need to think about, is this a good system, because we're curious about each other's opinions, and it's called pluralism of opinion. please help us make this happen, mr. president. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. i'll speak in hungarian. the diversity of the media is a very important area for the european people's party, which is why we decided that instead of rejecting the report, our group would table an alternative motion for a resolution. it has, while preserving the virtues of the original report, deleted from the text those parts which we considered unacceptable and inserted those proposals which we considered important to emphasise. the group objected, inter alia, to the fact that the report specifically named individual member states, whereas we believe that a report on media diversity should be neutral and general in scope. it is not his intention to shame certain countries by setting a bad example. we also could not accept that the report expressed itself in terms of certain media empires being primarily motivated by profit and their own financial interests, which is also an over-generalization, and we could not accept that. the report, which is the subject of intense political debate, should in any case call the attention of the european commission to the seriousness of the issue and to the need to take measures at eu or national level to ensure diversity. thank you, sir.
in writing. − ‘community media’ often plays an important role in local communities. it is an influential source of information amongst the local media; sometimes even the sole voice of local communities. that is why the european union should focus more on these media, especially after the failure of the lisbon treaty, as they may serve as an efficient means to pass on eu related information to citizens. as rapporteur for the report on the active dialogue with citizens on europe, i fully support any kind of communication tool which may help to bring closer the eu to the citizens. nevertheless, i am convinced that an essential precondition for community media as well as any other local media financed, even partially, from public funds, is to be independent not only from national but also from local power. i know that community media, especially their financing, should be a primary concern of member states, due to their various forms and local specialities. where we may help at european level is in giving more visibility to the issue. this report is the first step in that direction.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as a member of the committee on culture, allow me to extend my warm welcome to the initiative of erna hennicot-schoepges and katerina batzeli, members of the committee on culture, to address an oral question to the european commission and have this debate on the progress of the reform of the european schools. speaking of multilingualism and its importance, let me use this opportunity to raise a serious concern we have in romania, where the recent initiative of the ministry of regional development to complete the translation of the eu’s regional operational programme from romanian into hungarian met serious attacks from the romanian social democratic party run by several leaders of the former communist regime. please note that this is happening in one of the 27 eu member states in the european year of intercultural dialogue, at a time when commissioner leonard orban issued a policy document entitled, ‘multilingualism: an asset for europe and a shared commitment’. in the european year of intercultural dialogue, a debate on the reform of the european schools could not be of greater importance, as we live in a multicultural and multilingual europe, where different cultures and languages coexist. we need to encourage and enable such cultural interaction for successful european integration. therefore, our european educational system needs to reflect this multicultural characteristic and allow a healthy and easy coexistence. european schools in particular were set up to meet these needs – to provide multicultural and multilingual education while also strengthening european identity. however, in an enlarged eu with greater citizen mobility and more agencies being created in different member states, it has become a challenge to meet these needs. as the questions in today’s debate underline, there is a great need to focus on reforms, as it has proved to be more and more complex to provide multilingual and flexible education of high quality. allow me to stress the fact that only by allowing students to express and practice their own cultural identity and use their own mother tongue throughout their education and formation can we allow them to evolve as true european citizens. if students studying in european schools are not able first to develop their national identity through the use of their mother tongue and culture, i believe that they will not have a strong basis to build their european identity. thank you for your attention and i wish you good luck in the reform process of the european schools.
thank you, mr president. i apologize for the interpreters, but i'm speaking from my head. the key words are solidarity, responsibility, safety. we always say that solidarity is particularly important in the current financial crisis, because we, for example, i come from a country that is full of subsidiary banks, subsidiaries, so it is very important in such a key situation how the parent company and its supervision respond to the problem that we are facing. i should also like to say something about solidarity: if you had the common agricultural policy five years after the creation of the european economic community, you could have the common energy security policy four or five years after enlargement. i'm glad what the minister said was very nice, just make it happen. but what i'd like to say is that it's about the deposits, and it's about solidarity. this is an opportunity to show the positive image of the european union in the countries of central europe, that if we do not go behind each other, but say together that yes, in the event of a crisis, we guarantee the deposit of the entire population. we have to decide on a six-month, a year, and we have to raise the funds as quickly as possible, because we are talking about people and about a delicate balance that we have to save very quickly. i don't think that's going to be a problem for very long. the other issue is solidarity and our vulnerability. it's about the relationship of supervision, which is the next point. i understand that we want to set up colleges, but i think it is important to move towards some kind of central supervision, as in competition policy with the european commission or the ecb, or with the european central bank, or with some kind of central thing, because it is very difficult to see how we can create trust in a collegial system. thank you very much.
the most important thing to do - and i agree with the french presidency - is to implement the treaty of lisbon, and ireland has to find some kind of solution. as regards financial disturbances, i would remind parliament that in february 2008 hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány proposed the creation of a single european financial supervision and a single supervisory rulebook in view of the disturbances in international financial markets. unfortunately, at the march board meeting, that didn't get a majority. i think we should come back to this proposal at the next meeting. the hungarian prime minister will propose this again, because without it without a european financial supervision the global disruptions will be repeated again and again. i ask the french presidency and the other member states to support me, because it is in our common interest to resolve this.
madam president, i have to ask you... as a christian and a hungarian, and as a member of the european parliament, i am speaking in defence of the half-million hungarian national community in slovakia, which is part of the union, and in defence of democratic european values. while i congratulate slovakia on its economic achievements, i regret to say that extreme nationalist propaganda is being directed against hungarians in slovakia, and that a frightening hysteria is taking hold. i call on president hans-gert pöttering, the european parliament and the european commission to take action against the gross violation of human and minority rights, the ethnic intolerance, verbal aggression and discrimination in slovakia. as a european representative, i am ready to play a mediating role in the hungarian-slovak reconciliation.
thank you very much, madam president. unfortunately, after the foaming of the river raba, i have to speak in the european parliament about another austro-hungarian environmental debate. the austrian company begas is planning to build a waste incineration plant with a capacity of 325 000 tonnes in heiligenkreuze, just a few hundred metres from the hungarian border. the power plant will be capable of processing waste not only from the province but also from other places. the investment enjoys extremely low social support in both austria and hungary. the fact that the city of szentgotthárd in hungary and the natura 2000 protected national park, which includes the recently awarded eden reserve, are located less than one kilometre to the north of the planned waste incineration plant is a cause for serious concern. this would have unforeseeable consequences in a region of hungary that bases its livelihood on natural values, national parks and eco-tourism. finally, madam president, i would like to ask why a slovak representative who speaks hate speech against hungarians was allowed to speak twice? it's a procedural issue. thank you, sir.
peter mendelson leaves the sinking ship and hands the helm to a sailor. he's leaving the ship he's steered into the iceberg. it was a mistake to make such excessive concessions - especially in the agricultural sector - at the very beginning of the negotiations, which made our trading partners reluctant to make concessions themselves. it is ridiculous that while we are dismantling the common agricultural policy, while the other trading partners are defending their own agricultural policy, they are strengthening their farms in america. the wto negotiations cannot be resumed where they left off. the negotiations can only be resumed if they are extended to environmental issues. without this, further liberalisation of world trade will lead to even more abhorrent destruction of the environment and acceleration of climate change. let us consider whether it is right, at a time when we are facing both a food crisis and a financial crisis, to sacrifice european food security and agriculture just so that our bankrupt banks can export their services, which are going nowhere, in a more liberal way.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much, mr. president. first of all, i'd like to join the many colleagues who have praised colleague seeber. he worked with great skill and dedication on the subject, so the success and the praise were deserved. the subject is of the utmost importance, i don't have to tell you. my country, 90% of hungary is a forest-threatened area. the successive droughts in recent years have caused very serious damage to hungarian agriculture, with losses of 1 billion euros last year alone. so this is not just a problem in the southern countries, because in my country, it's also a huge problem, because the danube, the largest river in the european union, and the tisa, the seventh largest river, both flow through it, and yet the 100 kilometers wide area between these two rivers of abundant water has begun to become desertified, and this process is happening at an increasingly rapid pace and is continuing. this also demonstrates the need for a comprehensive water management programme in the european union, which is why i welcome this report and the commitment of the european union to take action to combat and promote desertification. the committee on budgets yesterday also supported a pilot project on combating desertification, on my proposal. but we need to do more than just complex water management and rational agricultural use. we also need to take important steps to rationalise water use by the public. climate change is likely to make the impact of seasonal water shortages even more acute, with each drop of wasted water having consequences. finally, let me draw attention to the issue of global responsibility. as the world's population grows steadily and dynamically, and as industrial and agricultural water needs in developing countries increase, europe's clean water resources are increasingly valued. it is our responsibility to preserve and increase this treasure. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! water scarcity and drought are among the most pressing problems facing the european union today and as such, they are complex issues that need to be addressed in close cooperation with and with due regard to other environmental issues. water use is not limited to a specific geographical area, its transboundary nature requires legal regulation at eu level. we also need to highlight an important aspect of transboundary water management. the development of floods that cause severe damage is closely linked to the widespread practice of deforestation, i.e., whereas logging produces drought and barrenness on the one hand, devastating floods on the other. it is important to emphasise that the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the field of water management. the role of local and regional authorities and local authorities should be strengthened, as these bodies make a significant contribution to reducing the difficulties caused by water scarcity and drought by setting land use and building regulations. in addition to regional and local authorities, we must not forget civil society organisations. awareness campaigns and education organisation are key and should be strengthened in the future. it is essential to organise awareness-raising campaigns, because in these forums not only do they draw attention to the existence of the problem, but also people can hear ideas and suggestions that can be put into practice. in addition, i would like to stress the importance of allowing member states the flexibility to regulate other related issues of agricultural irrigation and water management in accordance with their own specific circumstances. regulatory fora at different levels should work together to develop a framework for sustainable water management. i would like to thank mr. seeber, the rapporteur for their work, and you for listening.
food and water become as strategic as oil and natural gas. there's a water shortage and there's an occasional flood and a flood. this is a european problem, mr. seeber's report is extremely important. i would amend the proposal made by mr herranz garcía to the effect that a common european fund should not be set up for drought but for water management, because in addition to drought, inland waterways and floods are sometimes at least as big a problem, and as we are in a committee we know very well that there is no common european fund for risk management. and this is the framework for solving the drought problem, which is not just a problem in the mediterranean countries. my colleague olajos spoke in the middle of the danube-tisza, sandokhátságon, in four decades, the ground level has dropped by four meters, desertification is finally going on in central europe, in hungary. this is a common european problem, and we could learn a lot from our friends in israel. there's no shame in learning. they have excellent irrigation methods. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the arctic has become a symbol of climate change in recent years. the region is also at risk of becoming a hotbed of international conflict because of its untapped resources. the region's valuation is also indicated by the fact that there is a state that has given a clear signal of claim to the territory. it is not the role of the european parliament to get involved in geographical debates about the integration of the region. but i want to draw your attention to a few factors. first, if there are unresolved issues, they can only be resolved through legal and diplomatic means, not by flags. we believe that the current international order, while far from perfect, can provide a framework for resolving the issue through diplomatic means. on the other hand, given the growing demand in europe, the untapped energy resources in the north pole could contribute to ensuring european supply. however, it should be pointed out that the extraction must not affect the biological balance of the area: environmental considerations must be taken into account in all circumstances. i believe that the current international law does not yet provide a satisfactory guarantee of this. it is important to note that the exploitation of the arctic is expected to play only an ancillary role in europe's energy supply. these sources should therefore not replace measures to promote the use of renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
in writing. according to the 2007 eurobarometer survey, 5% of eu citizens in working age, or 19.7 million of the eu's 392.9 million inhabitants, said they had worked illegally. in some member states, undeclared work accounts for 20% or more of gdp. undeclared work is a persistent phenomenon with negative economic effects on the european labour market, a vicious circle from which it is very difficult for workers and employers to break out. the sectors most affected are agriculture, construction, households, accommodation and catering, where uncertainty and unfavourable wage conditions are common. the fight against undeclared work and the modernisation of labour laws and labour standards cannot therefore be confined to the level of mere theory, but requires concerted action by the member states. i suggest that the commission develop a european union strategy to combat undeclared work and take a greater part in the work of labour and social inspectorates. member states should continue to reform tax and social security systems, thereby reducing the tax burden on labour. in order to enable households to purchase services at lower prices, it would be proposed to introduce union service vouchers, which would also ensure the payment of social security contributions and taxes. however, in order to combat undeclared work, it is essential that member states open their labour markets to each other's workers, since their partial restrictions contribute to the creation of territorial disparities and are contrary to the principles of the union and the european spirit.
in writing. – the necessity of eradicating child poverty is felt to be an important issue within the european union. roma children especially are the most deprived minority, lacking assistance in the areas of housing, employment, education and healthcare. the combination of these factors results in a dire situation where romani children have no future and where roma and romani children are socially excluded, especially in cases where romani children grow up in extreme poverty. this type of environment denies romani children the chance to exercise their existing rights which they deserve. roma children who grow up in poverty lack the opportunities given freely to the majority. social exclusion and child poverty must be taken into consideration during eu and member states’ policy-making, especially in areas relating to active social inclusion. current data show about 50% of roma are illiterate or semi-illiterate; 30% of children aged 3-10 are suffering from serious illness such as tb; the life expectancy of roma is 10 years lower than the majority. the level of social exclusion that roma encounter in childhood is compounded as they grow into adults. in most european cities 90% of roma are unemployed and have little hope of finding employment in the near future; this vicious circle has to be broken for the social cohesion of the eu.
in writing. the well-being of children is based on a healthy environment, decent housing, adequate nutrition, and access to education and care. however, the title of the report is too broad to focus on the situation of children with sufficient emphasis. so it can't express, it can only hint at how much the extent of child poverty determines the present and the future of a society. the report takes a complex approach to the issues of integration and poverty, partly in a global way, partly focusing on individual vulnerable groups such as ethnic minorities, immigrants, the elderly, people with disabilities, and highlighting the situation of women and children. and i certainly support employment as the most important tool for getting out of poverty. however, it is not in itself a guarantee of social integration or of getting out of poverty. this is also reflected in the fact that many of the working poor are also poor. the reason for this, the report confirms, is the unfair working conditions and unfair pay of some disadvantaged groups. it is regrettable that the diversity of the document does not allow for a detailed examination of the problems of each vulnerable group. i am confident that, based on the rapporteur's commitment and the content of the report, it can be an addition to the legislation of the european institutions, with a result that reaches those for whom it was created, the poor masses.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. i was in kiev recently, and on the foreign ministry building in ukraine, there was a hardly noticeable, about three stories high european flag that was flying over that building. if this symbol has earned such respect and esteem outside europe, i am convinced that it is time for the european union to take it seriously. at the same time, i would like to correct my colleague, who has produced an excellent report on this matter. the regulation of european union symbols is still part of the acquis communautaire, the body of european law. the flag with the 12 golden stars and blue stripes is part of the arc de triomphe, as much as it is the result of a meeting of heads of state and government many years ago, and as much as the european parliament is based in strasbourg, which is why we are meeting in strasbourg. so there is no regulatory vacuum at the moment, because at the moment there are regulations on the symbols of the european union, whether they are in the lisbon treaty or not. at the same time, the report also has the important aim of regulating the way in which our institution, the european parliament, respects this flag. i also believe that identity, a sense of belonging, is very important. we often talk about the fact that citizens do not understand this complicated europe. symbols are one way for them to get there and to feel closer, emotionally close to their hearts, to the european union. many people love, many people admire and many people respect these symbols, and i believe that we - here in parliament - as committed europeans have a very important task to regulate the way in which the symbols of the european union are used in this institution. thank you for your attention.
mr president, we frequently hear the opinion that symbols are a waste of time and that the european union should not concern itself with such irrelevant questions. rather, this argument goes, the european union’s job is to focus on bread-and-butter issues like employment or trade. this approach is completely mistaken and wholly misunderstands what symbols are about. if you look carefully at how institutions work, then it will rapidly become clear that every institution maintains a set of symbols. these symbols carry a message that people will recognise and act as a shorthand version of that institution. without institutions, democratic politics cannot exist. so symbols are a necessary part of democracy that the eu regards as being central to its identity. besides, if symbols were as marginal as their opponents say, then why bother to oppose them? the european parliament, as the pivotal democratic body of the european union, has every reason to promote the symbols of europe as a means of connecting itself with the voters of europe. those who are against the symbols of europe are basically questioning european democracy itself. one could further argue that this is too fluid and crisis-ridden a time to be thinking of the symbols of europe, and thus that it is not the right moment for parliament to spend time on symbols. maybe so, but timing is something that always can and will be debated. in the long run, it will not matter whether the symbols of parliament and of the european union are debated now or at some later date. so i give my full support to this important and cogent report.
in writing. allergy is a modern public health problem that has typically spread in europe since the second world war. one third of children today have allergies, and if we do nothing about it, half the population of europe will eventually suffer from this disease. chemical foods and polluted environments are responsible for allergic disease, and allergic symptoms can be triggered by chemicals, natural and artificial food additives, spices, pollen, and other natural substances, such as animal hair. in hungary, the biggest problem is the poppy. unfortunately, the european union currently has no allergy strategy, as confirmed by the commission in response to my question. the civil society organisations of allergy sufferers, the many millions of european citizens affected, rightly expect us to take action against allergy at european level. let's do something about prevention, eliminate the causes and ensure that patients are symptom-free. active action against allergy could also demonstrate that it is also concerned with the health and everyday concerns of the citizens of the union.
in writing. first of all, i am pleased to see that more and more reports and strategies have been produced recently on the importance of health. i myself, as the rapporteur for the 2009 budget, tried to make a statement on behalf of the committee on the environment and public health (envi). my initiative was well received by both the envi and the committee on budgets. as my colleague mr peter arbeloa muru points out, there is a close link between the new health threats and climate change. on 7 october the committee on budgets adopted the pilot project i had submitted entitled 'comprehensive research on health, the environment, transport and climate change - improving indoor and outdoor air quality'. this eur 4 million initiative, led by the hungarian-based regional environmental center for central and eastern europe, would be implemented in nine countries (austria, bosnia and herzegovina, finland, hungary, italy, the netherlands, norway, serbia, slovakia). the project explores the relationship and impact of health, environment, transport and climate change in schools simultaneously. i also support the rapporteur's call for the ecdc to be strengthened. to ensure that the agency can carry out its increased tasks responsibly, i have proposed to release the reserve fund set up by the european commission. this was unanimously adopted by the envi committee and will hopefully be decided by the whole of parliament at the end of october.
climate change in central europe appears to be mainly due to the radical dispersal of rainfall. long dry periods of drought are followed by torrential rains. the cost of drought and flooding could run into the billions. it also indicates that climate change has begun. european climate policies must therefore address not only the slowing down of climate change but also the prevention of the impacts that are already occurring, and mitigate the damage. we need to develop water storage, irrigation systems, and we need to conserve rainfall in cities and in the land so that we can use water in times of drought. this is particularly important in the hungarian lowlands. we need to get the european union to treat better water management as a community policy and to open up substantial eu funds in the next budget.
mr president, every year thousands of grandmothers, mothers and daughters fall victim to breast cancer. europeans in particular are affected by the disease, as the most common cancer of european women is breast cancer, with an estimated 430 000 new cases diagnosed every year. the first step to combat this terrible disease is awareness. this month, europeans must focus on early detection as the primary means of prevention. detection is a very strong, key issue in this, because in america, for example, 41% of american cases are diagnosed at a very early stage, compared to 29-30% in europe. however, 1 in 10 women in the eu will develop breast cancer before she reaches 80 years of age; in addition, every two and a half minutes another woman is diagnosed with breast cancer. the harsh reality of breast cancer is that every seven and a half minutes a woman dies of this disease. in europe, 132 000 women died of breast cancer in 2006. this october the measures to increase breast cancer awareness, early detection and prevention must come from all levels of decision-making.
mr. president, i have to go. elections were held in hungary's two neighbors, austria and slovenia, and in both countries the social democrats won. he mentioned that our mep mr borut pahor had resigned and would probably become prime minister of slovenia. at the same time, what i have asked to speak about is that it is extremely worrying what has happened in austria, that the far right has gained almost 30% in the last election. this is a result that concerns all european citizens. in addition to tackling the financial crisis, the most important european task today is to reduce extremist phenomena across europe. it is very good that the chairman of the social democrats, the future chancellor mr fayman, has made it clear that there can be no cooperation with the far right in austria. against the brown threat, all democratic forces, right and left, in europe must unite. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. croatia started with the european union just three years ago. at the 8th meeting of the joint parliamentary committee a few days ago, we noted that croatia had made considerable progress in all areas during this period. 21 of the 35 negotiating chapters have been opened and it is making an extraordinary effort to implement the necessary reforms and meet the conditions for full membership. i am confident that the european commission will also prepare a timetable, together with the croatian country report due on 5 november, giving the croatian government clear guidance on how to conclude accession negotiations by the end of 2009, the end of the barroso commission's term of office. however, this timetable can only be maintained if negotiations can be accelerated and the council is willing to open new chapters by the end of the year. i am convinced that croatia's accession will be an example for neighbouring countries and an important factor of stabilisation in the region. thank you, sir.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. minister, officer, colleagues. the directive under discussion is a major step forward in creating a single european labour market and ensuring equal opportunities for workers in the eu. it is not, of course, the case that this eu legislation establishes a harmonised framework at community level in the field of the employment of temporary agency workers. but this is neither necessary nor desirable, since, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the basic labour law remains the responsibility of the member states in this respect. however, the desire to introduce clear and unambiguous minimum standards throughout the union, the application of which would ensure the protection of temporary agency workers throughout the community, is a welcome and positive move. i believe that, free from all ideological overtones and political affiliation, we can all agree that the protection of pregnant women, the guarantee of equal treatment for men and women, the elimination of discrimination on grounds of origin, religion, belief, membership of a minority or age, are fundamental objectives and justify the adoption of uniform rules on these issues throughout the union. this system of minimum requirements, developed by the eu legislators, is therefore intended to achieve this objective. it is important that, in addition to encouraging the professional development of the individual, it is in the european economic interest to provide equal opportunities for temporary agency workers in the areas of training, access to childcare and other infrastructure facilities. this also applies to the period between the loans. it is in the common interest of all of us that temporary agency workers should not be discriminated against, that they should be able to develop their professional skills and that reconciling family life and work should not be an insurmountable problem for them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. thank you very much, madam president.
in writing. the hungarian public is disturbed from time to time by cases where children of hungarian parents are taken to a foreign country by a foreign spouse. public opinion is primarily sympathetic to the bereaved mother, but it is also sympathetic to the bereaved father when the child is placed in a strange and bad environment. intermarriage is increasing within the european union, but the rules on divorce and child placement are often chaotic and unclear. community law has so far only regulated the framework for disputes, such as jurisdiction, i.e. which court has jurisdiction to hear divorce or child placement proceedings. but it did not address the law applicable in marriage matters, that is, the law of the state that the court was applying in the case. the very different national laws thus created uncertainty, often forcing the parties to initiate proceedings as soon as possible so that the legislation in their favour would apply. the regulation now being drafted seeks to change this situation, in particular by favouring the agreement of the parties to the litigation. that may be appropriate for a civil divorce, but knowing the practice, i'm afraid it's not going to resolve much of the legal dispute. the correct solution would be to establish a uniform european regulation on child placement in the longer term.
thank you, mr president. my dear officer. the internet, video games, and computer games all contain a lot of violence, brutality, erotic content, and they can cause addiction, insomnia, anxiety, and eating disorders. most children are not prepared for this type of content, and they are at risk of becoming twisted, deviant adults. modern technology does allow us to use software to filter out spam - unsolicited e-mails - and unwanted content, to block harmful sites on the computer used by our children. parents should be given wide information about this possibility and computer manufacturers should be encouraged to make these programs available as a mandatory accessory for new machines. we need some kind of digital environmental protection. obviously, some people interpret this as a desire to restrict the freedom of the internet, but i believe that protecting the mental health and dignity of children is a paramount concern. thank you, sir.
in writing. i consider the establishment of a multiannual community programme to protect children using the internet and other modern communication technologies to be vital and of paramount importance, as it is in our common social interest to protect our children from harmful and dangerous content by all possible means. the initiative, while primarily aimed at protecting children, will also have a multiplier effect by contributing to enhancing internet security. achieving these goals requires the cooperation of parents, educational institutions, service providers, public authorities and ngos, as only by working together will we be able to act effectively to protect your children. action by member states, including the establishment of national contact points and their effective cooperation, is also of great importance in the fight against harmful content. i consider it important to establish effective methods, mechanisms, including information, helpline assistance, immediate action, prevention, procedural methods and a database of best practices, as well as continuous monitoring.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, we're about to pass another law on child protection. as a parent myself, i welcome the initiative and agree that children need to be protected from illegal content on the internet and other forums that targets them or otherwise endangers their development. beyond that, however, i am convinced that we cannot succeed if we seek to protect children solely by trying to eradicate pornography or illegal content from the child's world. although this would be ideal, it is impossible: that is why i think it is particularly important that, in addition to prevention, the child learns what to do if he is approached in such a way, if he is affected in such a way. we need to make him aware that he can ask for help and that help needs to be really present, available. all children should be prepared for this eventuality in the same way that we teach them not to get into a car they do not know or accept candy from strangers. and this preparation is primarily the responsibility of the immediate environment: parents, family, school. the bill we are about to vote on is of particular importance, but it can only be effective if it is coupled with careful attention to the child's environment.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague, roberta angelilli, on her report on the protection of children using the internet and other communication technologies, which highlights a very serious and growing danger. with the increasing availability of new technologies and information technology, our children are increasingly exposed to the dangers of molestation, child pornography, harassment and racist incitement, and there are increasing reports of criminals using chat rooms on the world wide web to discredit their child victims and to gain their trust for the purpose of sexual abuse. alarming evidence indicates that to address the new threats posed by the information revolution, a coordinated action plan at eu level is needed to address the complexity of the problem, involving children, families, schools and teachers, and working with the communications industry and law enforcement. the multiannual community programme proposed by the commission should include action against illegal and harmful content, which is unfortunately increasingly found on the internet, by raising awareness and by making more efficient and coordinated use of the tools provided by the criminal law of the member states. it is also necessary to educate teachers, carers and, above all, parents about the dangers of new communication technologies. i hope that parliament will approve the plan as soon as possible, as my colleague intends, and that the new programme can start as early as january.
in writing. according to eurobarometer data, 74% of 12-15 year olds use the internet daily, many of them exposed to pornographic images. in recent years, according to a survey by the internet watch foundation, there has been a 16 percent increase in online child abuse. these data clearly indicate that children's online safety can only be achieved through a multi-layered approach covering children, families, schools, operators in the telecommunications sector, including internet service providers and judicial authorities. i think that in the protection of the little ones on the internet, prevention should be given a key role. i would consider it important to make the appearance and operation of sites with pornographic, violent and child-developmentally harmful content subject to a separate licence. given that in some countries it is a good practice to block websites with pedophilic content on domestic and foreign servers with the consent of the judicial authorities, and that in general the current legal environment of the countries allows for the removal of such content, i call on the judicial authorities of the member states to take the first steps necessary to block it. and is it worth considering whether it would be a crime to not only create such sites but also to view them? proper education and widespread information are essential for prevention: children should be equipped with the appropriate knowledge to be able to use all the tools to recognise potential harassment and to protect themselves from it.
thank you, madam president. the problem with today's debate is what the latin saying is about: "no wind is favourable to him who does not know which port he is sailing to". unfortunately, the debate today doesn't seem to be the port where everyone would like to anchor. the regulation of the free movement of posted workers was dropped from the 2006 compromise services directive, but the problem, as the adoption of the court's judgments has shown, remains and is falling on our heads. like the maastricht treaty, the constitutional treaty and the treaty of lisbon, the question of the free movement of services and the debate on whether the four freedoms or social rights should be better protected, even at the expense of each other, are inseparable. it is true that the union rules provide a temporary competitive advantage to the providers of the new member states. the free flow of goods and capital, on the other hand, has created more favourable market conditions for the more developed member countries. i would argue that these differences are temporary, since it is necessary to bring the quality and conditions of the goods and money markets, the labour and service markets closer together. so our first task is not to rewrite the law and oppose court decisions, but to apply the existing rules consistently and effectively. today, wars are not primarily fought with weapons, but financial crises like today can cause war-like damage. i hope that in this parliament and in other decision-making forums of the union, remembering the intention of lasting peace and cooperation after the second world war, we will all seek a balanced solution, to be part of a long-term and prosperous, cohesive and solidarity-based community. and let us leave the protectionism of closure to the past. thank you, madam president.
the polish plumber's mummy has now been replaced by the threatening shadow of a latvian construction worker. the whole union has already suffered and is suffering a great deal from the indignity of this debate. some of them are threatening unlimited immigration of workers from the new member states, social dumping, which is not actually true. let's be realistic about this. let's not threaten the voters with this. the 12 new member states have hardly any comparative advantage. one of those benefits is that it's relatively cheaper to hire, but it's only going to last a few years. luckily, wages are going up for us. i would urge that when you talk about equal treatment - there is an aspect of that - there should be equal treatment between the old and the new, but it is to the detriment of the whole union if we restrict the possibilities of competition in the internal market, the freedom of enterprise - although i also consider the social aspect to be extremely important. thank you, sir.
in writing. – given the current exceptional market circumstances there is a need for concrete measures in order to ensure sufficient flexibility in the implementation of the stability pact. the unprecedented events have exposed the limits of the european financial integration system when confronted with a crisis of this magnitude. when the stability pact was reformed, no one could have expected such financial turmoil and the flexibility given to the stability pact in case of economic slowdown seems to be insufficient in the light of recent events. we ought to maintain budgetary discipline, but more flexibility should be established to allow for the new members to join the euro zone as soon as possible. within the current rules, the financial crisis could indeed prevent new members joining the euro zone as scheduled. the economic rationality underlying the construction of the european exchange-rate mechanism should be readapted to the current financial circumstances so as to create the conditions for sustainable financial markets in countries acceding to the euro zone. speeding up the process by allowing individual paths for adopting the euro in each accession country depending on its economic conditions could be a solution as the financial crisis has emphasized the need for acceding countries to be anchored in the euro zone.
in writing. we must not let europe pay the price of the financial crisis that started in america, the price of speculation, the price that the little people drink to the short-sightedness of the banks and the greed of the speculators. the package adopted at the european council will hopefully put a stop to the financial tsunami. the union and the member states' governments have a further joint priority to do everything possible to mitigate the real economic and social impact of the crisis, to prevent a prolonged recession and to protect investments. we need to save to protect our citizens. to do this, european countries are forced to take emergency measures, cut budgetary expenditures, temporarily suspend their plans to cut taxes, and even raise taxes. this is happening from france to britain, from italy to latvia. but this can only be done effectively with national consensus, and anyone who defies this is putting the country's financial stability at risk. the market economy needs to be fundamentally rethinked. social control of market processes is essential, and regulation is needed to supervise competition rather than to stifle it. the european parliament supports the idea of financial and capital market supervision at european level, which was already proposed by hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány. there's no way those responsible can avoid accountability. it's not a punishment to freeze millions of dollars in paychecks. there is no avoiding criminal prosecution, including forfeiture, confinement of those responsible for causing the international financial crisis.
as rapporteur for the report on the authorisation of genetically modified organisms, and in this case as rapporteur, i would like to emphasise once again that the european parliament should have a greater role in monitoring the processes. european citizens fear the opaque use of gmos and parliamentary scrutiny means publicity and transparency. this is the only way to reduce mistrust, with the whole public. the european parliament should be obliged to be involved in matters of health and environmental safety in the case of genetically modified micro-organisms. i am pleased that my amendments in this respect, which were unanimously supported by the committee on the environment, have now been voted by the european parliament.
mr. president, i have to go. the french presidency has played an exemplary role in the handling of the crisis in georgia. we can manage a crisis, but we can't prevent a crisis. i would remind the house that there was a foreign minister of the european union, mr steinmeier, german foreign minister, who put forward a very serious settlement plan, and this plan proposed by mr steinmeier was accepted by all the parties concerned, except tbilisi. it's a historical fact. it could have prevented the war, which is unfortunate. i am convinced that the steinmeier plan can still be the main basis for the settlement, although today the situation is much more difficult, since the behavior of the abyssinians and the south ossetians is now very different. i'll add right away: it's impossible to negotiate over the heads of two peoples, the abkhazians and the south ossetians, and their opinion is also needed when it comes to relations with russia. yeah, we can't pick up where we left off. russia is a strategic partner, unchanged, but our trust has been shaken, but we cannot isolate it. russia needs to learn the lessons, but we need to learn the lessons, too, namely, why russia is more tolerant of ukraine, georgia coming closer to the union than russia coming closer to nato. this is a lesson that american policy and we must learn if we are to normalise the eu-russia strategic partnership. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the union is seeking partnership and cooperation with russia, but partnership can only be said to be based on reciprocity, respect for international law and agreements. russia's actions in georgia have destroyed the most important psychological foundation of our partnership, trust. this trust can only be restored if the six-point agreement is fully implemented in all its details. what is needed is not progress, not a move in the right direction, but real and full implementation. russia must finally decide whether to see europe as a partner, a rival or an adversary. moscow must know that whatever it decides to do, whether it sees us as partners or adversaries, the future of ukraine, georgia and other neighboring countries, their independence, can never be the subject of a power bargain. europe can never agree to a redistribution of the continent, another yalta agreement. we do want a partnership, but a partnership based on reciprocity and mutual respect. thank you, sir.
in writing. – recent events have raised questions about the nature of our relations in both the short and the long term. we must move on and look ahead. negotiations between the eu and russia on a new strategic partnership agreement should continue. it is in the interest of both parties to conclude this agreement. the eu has every interest in promoting a genuine “strategic partnership” with moscow. we have to be pragmatic and realistic and pursue a results-oriented policy. the eu has to find the best common approach to deal with russia on issues such as current global economic challenges, energy, economic interdependence, non-proliferation, terrorism and climate change, because these matters are in our fundamental mutual interest. we cannot afford to marginalise russia, we have to engage with it in a constructive way. now more than ever, dialogue and long-term cooperation are required. isolating russia will not help. relations need to be strengthened in many fields of mutual interest, in particular with regard to dealing with the current financial crisis and creating the new global financial architectural structure, where cooperation with russia, as well with china and india, is absolutely necessary, and ensuring stability and security in the shared neighbourhood of the eu and russia.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear officer! my fellow citizens! in our discussion this morning, we agreed on one thing: the world is heading for an environmental catastrophe. we can change that today, and europe wants to change that. neither the financial crisis nor any other factor should force us to give up our leadership role in creating a more sustainable development. if we take this seriously, we're going to have to make some serious changes to create a more environmentally conscious car industry. it's hard to get consumers to choose the more environmentally friendly, but today even more expensive vehicles. but with good regulation, we can do a lot to help create a cleaner fleet. on the one hand, we pay more attention to environmental aspects than to vehicles purchased through public procurement, we can set a good example from the public sector side, and on the other hand, we can achieve an increase in orders that makes it more economical to develop cleaner technologies. this regulation is not only important for the environment but is also a key chance to preserve a strong european car industry, so we need to introduce it as widely as possible and as quickly as possible. thank you very much.
drafted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - thank you very much, madam president. as rapporteur for the 2009 eu budget on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to express my satisfaction with the material before us. one of the most important changes is that next year there will be 10% more resources available for environmental protection than in 2008. this will allow us to spend 14 billion euros on environmental protection. i particularly welcome the fact that climate change is one of the priorities for next year. europe must maintain its leading role in the international fight against climate change, as president sarkozy stressed yesterday. i would also like to highlight the fact that the life+ budget will increase by 9%. i think it is a great opportunity to launch the so-called pilot projects, of which three proposals on environmental protection and public health are supported by the european commission this year, worth eur 7.5 million. never before have so many projects dealing with climate change and its effects been launched within a year. as far as the agencies are concerned, i think the figures proposed by the commission are generally good, and i am pleased that the level of support has increased in both the human and the equipment areas, but we are proposing amendments to two points. one is the european centre for disease prevention and control, where we propose to free up a 10% reserve, because that's the only way the agency can do its job. in the other case, at the european food safety authority, we are proposing the opposite approach, which is to put in place a 10% reserve training until the agency can demonstrate that it is working properly. these proposals were supported by parliament's committee on the environment and budget. and i ask the members to vote in favour of this in the plenary. finally, i would like to thank jutta haug, the rapporteur, and surján lászló, the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party, for the valuable help they have given me in my work. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and cooperation. the budget is a joint effort, and the result meets the needs of several political groups. the message of the people's party: make the lives of the citizens of the union safer! security means many things, not just protecting the schengen borders, preventing illegal immigration, fighting terrorism, but above all preserving jobs, through increased support for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, but also food security and food supply. for security, we need multiple, independent sources of energy. all this will require more money than the council has planned. two billion euros were raised in a matter of days to keep the banks safe. that's good. but you should know that the union spends this money over 20 years. parliament plans to allocate less than €10 billion to programmes next year, all of which will benefit the real economy. and it's still a billion and a half short of what we've planned in the seven-year budget. so it's not unfair that in this current situation, instead of cutting back on spending, we want to spend 10 billion more on growth, jobs, the safety of our citizens. the crisis is not only a financial one, but also an economic one. let the council be our partner in stronger economic development. member states should also remove obstacles which make it artificially difficult to use european development aid, for example by requiring excessive self-financing. the union must help its citizens in trouble because of the global crisis! let us prove that this union can not only prevent wars from europe but also overcome the financial and economic crisis that is affecting europe. thank you for your kind attention.
thank you very much. thank you very much, officer for your answer. the problem is, there were six audits against china this year, none of which have been carried out to date. we were supposed to have a poultry inspection in october, and it didn't happen because the chinese didn't have the time. my question is, if we couldn't do any of those six things this year, and we're planning to do 15 things next year, how are you going to do those 15 things? and if the chinese are not cooperating with the european side, then why are we opening the door to china and destroying european poultry producers? if china doesn't cooperate, we don't have to open our import gates, that's my opinion. thank you very much.
the greatest hungarian poet of the 20th century said, "the past must be acknowledged". yes, the past must be acknowledged, but not to stir up strife between peoples and countries. every people must face its own guilt, and the way the germans faced their role in world war ii is an example. mr. zaleski, as a pole, pointed out that many nations have to confess their sins, and the holocaust is not the only one. i speak on behalf of a people whose parliament first condemned the holocaust in 2003. at the same time, i would like very much for this debate not to be an anti-russian debate, because it would be good for those in the room who are speaking out to know that if they knew the ethnic map of ukraine and knew which counties were affected by this stalinist atrocity, which was aimed at the extermination of the peasantry by the communist dictatorship, ukrainians died decisively, but not only ukrainians. well, in those counties, donetsk, dnipropetrovsk, odessa, romanians, russians, jews, people of other nationalities died. they wanted to wipe out the peasantry here. i have to admit, it was genocide, but not on ethnic grounds. based on the principles of an unacceptable, failed, 20th century stalinist, communist dictatorship, they wanted to eradicate a class, the peasantry, the middle peasantry. the victims were ukrainians, but we have to bow to all victims regardless of nationality! and it is not true what mr. roszkowski said that the social democratic group wants to clear something up. no, we just respect the facts and stick to the facts, because when we take a stand for the holodomor, we refuse to engage in condemnation of russia - although russia has a serious problem with stalinism, with the katyn massacre - but we must not forget that the stalinist dictatorship made russians suffer at least as much, and was at least as much a victim as other peoples. so i say we bow our heads, but with these debates, we try to respect the historical facts a little bit. we bow to the victims of the holodomor, but we cannot serve ukrainian nationalism, but we can serve the need to face the past, russia, ukraine and all peoples must make peace!
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. after years of denial and silence, no one now disputes that the holodomor was one of the most serious, deliberately induced, politically motivated mass murders in the history of the 20th century. the european parliament is paying its old debt by bowing to the memory of the victims. the strongest allies of sin are indifference and forgetfulness. we must not forget! millions died to allow stalin to carry out his dictatorial plan. the plan was not only to forcibly collectivize agriculture - that was the goal - but it was at least as much aimed at breaking ukrainian national consciousness, to abolish the institutions of national identity. in the years of the holodomor and the 1930s, 80% of the ukrainian intelligentsia were executed. the ukrainian independent church was liquidated. the ukrainian language was pushed out of the public sphere. the holodomor is therefore an indelible part of ukrainian national identity and collective memory. we must acknowledge the sacrifice that the citizens of ukraine have made to live freely and to decide their own future. the european parliament recognises the european ambitions of ukraine. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. thank you for the word.
in writing. i am convinced that the european parliament must not only deepen integration but also make efforts to deal consistently with the darkest periods of our common history. that is why i am pleased that today's sitting provides us with the opportunity to draw attention to the famine in ukraine, one of the saddest and most incomprehensibly forgotten memories of the communist dictatorships of the 20th century. the controversy surrounding the famine that killed some 3 million people illustrates that the processing of this period of history is still ongoing. we do not agree with those who attribute the disaster to lower-than-average crop yields, the resistance of the ukrainian population, or a few bad economic policy decisions. we must say that the tragedy in ukraine is a direct consequence of state-sponsored terror. by forcing collectivization and stopping the sweeps of roofs, soviet leaders could have saved millions of lives, but they did not. that is why the events in ukraine in the early 1930's are no different from the worst genocides in history. i believe that dictatorships, whether they be national socialist or communist, have their origins in a single quill. we must take every possible means to strengthen the awareness of the rising generations of the horrors of communism. the establishment of a european institute and memorial on the history of dictatorships will play a significant role in this process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, madam president. officer, please! it's going to be a beautiful day, despite the rain. i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and my shadow rapporteurs, because after lengthy negotiations with the commission and the slovenian and then the french presidencies, we were able to reach a good compromise. we are going to jump into the dark ourselves, which is why i want member states to apply this legislation as soon as possible, not just after the two years that have passed. this will enable us to see in practice what our legislative work is worth and to take the necessary corrective steps during the four-yearly review. i hope that member states understand this and make the necessary institutional changes quickly if necessary. i also hope that the directive will lead to transparent pricing and moderate price increases, so that we can avoid the abuse of power by one predatory airline over another, with lower prices for the same service, at airports that are hungry for customers. at the same time, we can avoid that airports impose opaque and arbitrary, often sudden, price increases. in both cases, the aim is to ensure that european consumers pay only for what they have actually used. that's why we didn't allow the cost of security checks or the cost of treating people with disabilities to be included in the pricing. i also consider it a good compromise to leave the accounting of the profits from commercial activities at the airport, or the abandonment of such profits, to the competence of the member state responsible. the agreement on a joint managing authority for the airport network is also a good result, but as regards pricing, the commission has promised that the participants will be subject to competition even if there is a risk of market distortion compared with other nearby airports. the compromise is good on the authority side. i myself wanted to include, in addition to the largest airport in the member state with more than 5 million passengers per year, even smaller airports that may be nearby and competing, but i gave up on this because of the agreement, although i would like to look at this element in the next review. i accept, although i am not happy that the possibility of prefinancing was confirmed in the references, with reference to icao regulations, although i would have liked to see this in the main text. i hope that by a gradual increase in costs, it will be presented more delicately to the traveling public, rather than in a sudden increase, but we'll have to look at that at the inspection. the result is the transparency of state or other public support, which is also an important factor in the competition of airports, as well as increased consideration of environmental aspects. i see the greatest achievement in this as the need to establish a strong, independent national authority with a significant role in each member state, and i am also proud that they have accepted and incorporated in the report the idea that there should be no endless negotiation in the event of price-setting disputes. let it be an interim decision to start the reconciliation process. thank you very much, madam president.
madam president, i am extremely satisfied with the work of the ombudsman as explained in his annual report and in his speech. the european ombudsman is a vital part of the democratic structure and functioning of the union. the largest proportion of the ombudsman’s inquiries concern lack of transparency and refusal to provide information. this is an area of our activities that we must improve if we are to become more credible in the eyes of citizens. it is important that we support the work of the ombudsman and that of the committee on petitions. both deal with the handling of complaints and petitions on eu matters from citizens that help us to find out what is not working at european level and to take corrective measures. cases being brought to the ombudsman and to the committee on petitions are of increasing complexity and therefore require greater investment of resources by the institutions in order that citizens’ concerns are properly addressed. if these concerns are properly addressed, then we will be making some progress towards improving the credibility of, and confidence in, the union as a whole.
thank you, mr president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! it is now almost 10 months since the european parliament adopted its joint resolution calling on the european commission to develop an eu roma strategy. the commission did not present any new proposals, apart from a 'staff working document', for the eu-romania summit, which was described as historic. meanwhile, in kosovo, roma still live in lead-contaminated, life-threatening settlements, and in hungary, during this period, nine communities were attacked with molotov cocktails or firearms against the homes of roma families. the last and deeply sad stop of this journey was nagycséch, where two roma trying to escape from a burning house were shot dead with cold cruelty with a beer-bottle rifle. meanwhile, in italy, according to reports from civil society organizations, nearly 30,000 roma have fled the country in recent months due to police brutality and anti-gypsy sentiment. this is coupled with the current economic crisis, which - let us not doubt it - will hit the most the disadvantaged, the most deprived and the roma. i would remind all responsible politicians that this is why we need a european roma strategy. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. "i want mercy, not sacrifice" echoes in our souls the words of jesus, when we face the violence and cruelty that are so rampant in the world. terror and violence are even more painful when they are committed in the name of fundamentalist religion or religious exclusivity. that is why we must protest against the brutal execution of a 13-year-old girl in southern somalia, who was raped by three men and then stoned to death by the rebels after a verdict by an islamic court. and we must protest against the persecution of iraq's christian minority, thousands of whom have been driven from their homes in mosul and the countryside by shiite militants. in the spirit of our european christianity, religious tolerance and ecumenical fraternity, the european community must speak out and act in defence of the victims of religious violence and persecution.
mr president, this is a very important debate. one of the most important rights of european citizens is the right to free movement, and a year ago when we opened the schengen borders, there were some strange obstacles for the new member states at each border, including the austrian-czech, hungarian-slovak or hungarian-austrian borders. in my hometown, the austrian authorities put a sign forbidden to drive a car on a road that is otherwise free to drive. that is why, since this annoying obstacle, in our opinion, restricts one of the most important rights of european citizens, the right to free movement, my colleagues karas and járóka lívia and i have symbolically covered this sign with the european flag in protest against this obstacle, which causes a lot of annoyance to the people living there. today we are no longer fighting against the iron curtain, ladies and gentlemen - i have brought this here several times, it is the iron curtain from my own city - but against some of the forbidden signs, but i think that in a european spirit we must also make them disappear. as for the hungarian-slovak conflict, the only thing that would have been credible was their protest against extremists, if they had done so even when słota, a member of the coalition party, made anti-hungarian statements and demanded the expulsion of hungarians from slovakia.
thank you very much, mr. president. my fellow members of the house. i would like to draw your attention to the pressures on the maize market, which are particularly acute in central europe. the exceptionally high yields, unfavourable international market conditions and the fluctuation in yields which is considered to be traditional in central europe have resulted in prices in some hungarian regions being well below the intervention level. we need to take action to protect producers and market stability. in the current situation, hungary is not able to buy up the surplus itself, but there are other options to stabilise the market. first, the intervention buying-in of maize for non-sea-port countries should be increased. the system should in this respect fulfil the role of a safety net as originally intended. secondly, a tender for the granting of subsidies to non-sea-port countries for exports to third countries should be opened. finally, private storage facilities outside the queue should be opened. the introduction of these measures would go a long way towards preventing the situation from worsening and would help our producers to adapt to the exceptional circumstances. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. i consider the introduction of the euro a success, because we have seen a decline in unemployment, an increase in employment, because there is stability behind the euro. this is also proven by the current crisis, because whoever can use this strong reserve currency simply cannot have a balance of payments problem, unlike those who have such problems, for example in hungary. however, the euro area has not achieved convergence despite cohesion support and it is better to examine what led to this. it's a very powerful capital pump. so i suggest that in this study, we look at what happened, not just gdp, but gni. i am glad that the report also includes the fact that action should be taken against a member state that gives persistently bad, rosy forecasts - we know this from hungary's 2006 history - and i think it is necessary. i think it's important that we preserve the prestige of eu membership. on the one hand, a non-eu country should not join the eurozone, because that would not explain the dramatic efforts of some member states to join. the ecb's instruments, especially now in times of crisis, should be used towards all member states, especially in terms of liquidity, let's not be selfish here. this also makes sense of the eu's protective shield and membership of the single market, which is a very serious challenge for less developed member states, for example. but also take this into account in the composition of the governing council of the ecb. but most importantly, it represents the eurozone externally. this is necessary, but in the external representation of the euro area, we must involve all member states in the delegation, not have an exclusive club in the external representation, because the eu is one. finally, i would like to say that the member states really must enter the euro area as soon as possible under strict conditions, but under logical conditions. i therefore welcome mr klinz's proposal, which would rationally limit the reference countries to the eu area. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. it is no coincidence that the gender pay gap is a key element of the 2006-2010 roadmap for equality between women and men. the issue of the gender pay gap goes beyond the basic requirement of equal pay for equal work. the pay gap reflects the severe inequalities in the labour market, which affect women in particular. this is a serious democratic deficit in europe. the solution requires a complex action, which requires political commitment. there is a need to improve existing legislation, facilitate and monitor its practical application. the principle of genuine equality of opportunity can only be achieved if all member states show strong political will and take constructive action to close the gender pay gap. it is unacceptable that the gender pay gap in many member states still receives no differentiated attention, either in public debates or on political agendas. the launch of social dialogue and awareness-raising campaigns is also essential. i urge that a package of policy measures be developed to address this problem, taking into account national specificities and best practice in all cases. we need more detailed and more precise statistical information to identify the actual situation and to monitor the processes. the causes of wage disparities should be thoroughly investigated and the knowledge gained should be used to detect, remedy and prevent discrimination.
in writing. – i would like to congratulate ms bauer for her hard work in contributing vital recommendations to the european commission on the application of the equal pay principle. the pay gap has a major impact on the status of women in economic and social life and constitutes an obstacle to equal economic independence. there are several areas where women are affected by the gap in pay based solely on gender in europe. women encounter differences in their hourly pay in new and old member states alike. differences can be seen in the income distribution between men and women: 20 percent of women, compared to 40 percent of men in europe, receive a similar income distribution in the top-range of salaries. another glaring pay inequality lies in sectoral gender segregation, as half of jobs in three sectors are male dominated. finally, the over-representation of women – 30 percent – in part-time positions affects labour market contributions. these figures are even worse when it comes to women with certain ethnic origins, such as the roma. while the eu’s legal framework regarding equal pay is very extensive, in the european union women are still paid less then men – even those with similar skills and education – which proves that improving legislation by strengthening its effectiveness is the main goal to achieve.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president. i would like to congratulate both the commission and the rapporteur on their work, and i too believe that this electronic modernisation system is timely and has a very positive impact. i have two comments. one is to let the internal market work. if the tax registration system and the data exchange are working properly, then i think that private traffic will not cause huge damage. if someone somewhere where he bought the goods for private use pays the excise tax, then the producer prices and, in some cases, the different excise duties will compete with each other. there is no need to restrict everything, there is no need to send negative messages to protect the treasuries of high-priced countries. especially within schengen, it would be very strange to have police and customs officers approaching citizens, because we know that larger trucks like this or whatever can be illuminated by other methods. so i don't see the point of indicative listing. the second is that i too support the right of citizens leaving the internal market to buy such products when they leave the internal market. i do not think that there would be any huge smuggling operations on the ground or that the member states bordering on the eu would suffer huge losses because the price level in neighbouring third countries is much lower than in our own member states. so i'm not thinking of exporting products on an industrial scale. i assume the same is true of airports, since we cannot export so many products in hand luggage at airports that we cannot say that such products cannot be exported to third countries outside the customs union for private use. thank you very much, mr. president, for this opportunity.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear officer, my dear colleagues. the european community has set up the solidarity fund to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to cases of extreme urgency. the least that can be said is that the council is characterised by speed and efficiency in formulating its common position. unfortunately, the greatest natural disasters do not wait for a common position. despite the positive results achieved since the launch of the solidarity fund, further improvements are needed to provide much faster and more effective assistance to those in need. the problems to be solved are piled up before us, and it is very difficult for me to understand why years have passed without any decision being taken by the council. mine will only make it harder for us to gain the understanding of our citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy. thank you for your attention.
in writing. carbon capture and storage has become an essential part of the climate change dialogue. it is a promising technology, but one that has yet to gain the trust of society. its future use could be a realistic compromise between the inevitability of fossil fuels and climate objectives. since carbon capture requires significant and long-term investment, it is essential that the european union establishes a consistent and stable regulatory framework. i believe that the climate package, as amended by parliament, has set good standards in this area. it is a welcome development that the parliament's report on this issue would provide free emission allowances for 10 to 12 experimental power stations, rather than direct financial support. i think it is unacceptable that the power stations entitled to free allocations will be designated by the european commission, taking into account the principle of regional balance. i agree with the rapporteur that the resources devoted to research and development at both member state and eu level need to be significantly strengthened in order to promote the diffusion of new technologies. the european union's support cannot replace the efforts of the private sector. if carbon capture and storage is a viable option, there will be companies willing to take an active part in the investment. it is important to note in addition to the above that the promotion of carbon capture cannot divert resources from renewable energy sources. the technology we are discussing is a possible solution, but it is far from the only solution, to mitigate the effects of climate change.
i hope that the excellent report by mr capoulas santos will be able to provide a good basis for compromise in the council during the french presidency and i hope that the european parliament and the council will jointly tame the commission. which means, i've already quoted saint-exupéry, that the little prince tamed the fox. i hope we can do it tomorrow. the total abolition of the intervention mechanism is very dangerous for europe, for european food security. as far as punishing large farms is concerned, it will cause enormous damage to european competitiveness and for livestock farming it is important to help farmers who do not own land.
in writing. the review is not just a review of the common agricultural policy. in fact, it is a reform of the cap, a significant reduction in agricultural subsidies. this is hungary, and it's unacceptable to the hungarian farmers. hungarian agriculture has been badly hit by reforms so far. in hungary, modulation would already affect smaller farms of 20 hectares. for these smaller farms, direct payments should not be reduced but increased. moreover, the application of modulation in the new member states before 2013 would be contrary to the treaty of accession. in order to ensure food security, production aids and market measures, including intervention on cereals, remain necessary. the linking of the intervention price to the rouen port price is unacceptable as it results in far lower prices due to transport costs, especially in the new member states, and is discriminatory. we reject the milk quota increase. the increase in milk quotas this spring proved to be a mistake, leading to a fall in milk prices in many member states. the increase in milk quotas is particularly contrary to the interests of hungary, since we have a significant unused milk quota. this would prevent hungarian producers from increasing their production in the future. we support the continued support for tobacco producers. tobacco production provides a livelihood for tens of thousands of families, especially in the most disadvantaged areas of the northeast.
mr. barnier and his wife, the honorable officer. like all enterprises, it has many owners, seven towns competing for the birthplace of homer. many believe it was their initiative. i am proud to have proposed this programme on 10 may 2005 in the debate on the fruit and vegetable reform, and i am grateful to the commissioner for having it implemented. people who spoke before me have told me why this is so important. it's not just important for social reasons, but also to teach young people about food culture. it's a french pear, but i'm not going to eat it because it's forbidden to eat it here. it is very important that when young people receive these school fruit with the eu logo on them, they know - and this should be formed in childhood - that it is safe, non-chemical, preferably organic. so teaching kids about a food culture is a very important task. i must congratulate mr. busk on that. [this pear] i'm not going to eat it because i'm not breaking the rules, but i think we can all be proud of this program. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the european union's intention to promote the consumption of fruit in schools is welcome. proper nutrition in childhood provides a good chance for a healthy lifestyle later on, and a child raised in the right spirit will promote healthy eating in the family and among friends. however, those in charge of the program must also be careful about the fruit they offer the children. it would be a serious mistake to send to schools fruit laden with pesticide residues that are difficult to sell commercially. therefore, the programme should be organised in such a way that only fruit containing a healthy plant protection product well below the health limit is delivered to schools. it is also desirable that, in the interests of a healthy diet, the main sources of supply from community sources should be domestic, low-sugar, fibre-rich fruits rather than, for example, bananas.
as the environment committee's lead on the subject, i welcome the outcome of the vote. it is a technique that can, in good circumstances, provide a partial solution to climate change, but it must not be allowed to distract us from the importance of the whole climate package. the new member states, such as hungary, have significantly reduced their greenhouse gas emissions since the late 1980s. it would be grossly unfair to punish those who have caused the increase in emissions. we therefore aim to achieve a proportional distribution of 10% of the revenues of the co2 trading scheme among member states with a gdp per capita below the eu average. we would also give 10% to those who have reduced their emissions over the last decade and a half. in the committee on the environment, we have succeeded in exempting district heating from the climate tax, and this achievement must be maintained for the benefit of millions of low-income european citizens. in addition to the above, i myself supported the report as a contributor.
in writing. our first priority is to restore confidence in financial markets to prevent the crisis from deepening further. politics has a huge responsibility in this regard. not only do we need a quick and confidence-building macro-solution, but we also need to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis that we have seen. this is not just a small flaw in blind capitalism, as you've heard recently, but a great opportunity to create a much more efficient and legitimate financial and regulatory system. now we can finally humanize capitalism! we must also be mindful that the crisis is not only a threat to banks and large companies, but also a daily problem for citizens. to deal with this crisis, we need a sustainable solution, and if we are to do that, we need to transform the world, and we need to make it a much more just, humane and rational place. there are areas within europe where life has been hopeless. in addition to economic recovery, we must focus on concrete solutions for the most vulnerable, those who are suffering and will suffer most from the effects of the crisis, those who are most exposed to economic and social deprivation. if we don't do that, the average will survive the crisis and grow again, but we'll cement the misery for a long time.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president, for the floor. actually, we're here at a sad time, because we have an urgent request to discuss. i would like to point out that i must in any case give a positive signal that the european union has finally, after a very long search, - it was not easy - found point 119 and has found the legal basis to be able to help at all. for a very long time, as the winds blow the news about hungary, they didn't find a legal basis for it at first. before i get into that, let's look at the reasons. one is convergence, which we discussed yesterday, the lack of it. now, in recent years, there has been no return on investment in capital movements within the east-west eu, so there is a huge capital inflow from the eastern member states to the western ones, and we are facing a continuing balance of payments deficit, which will also hinder real convergence. the other problem is that the surveillance system is obviously not perfect, because countries whose currency is not the euro can simply borrow in foreign currency. the union, if i have heard correctly, has not been fully involved in this, although i think its voice is to tell these countries to be careful not to tax people and companies in a foreign currency that is unreasonable and unreasonable, because any crisis can have problems, and this problem has arisen. so surveillance, surveillance, has to be extended, and it should have been extended a long time ago, because i say that the commission has a very strong voice in central and eastern europe, and it can open its mouth. the crisis came, a crisis broke out. the hungarian government first ran to the imf, we know that, but they say that they tried the eu, which was constantly looking for a legal basis, and they also say that it does not have enough capacity for crisis analysis. i say we create it. not everyone, not every crisis analysis, has to rely on the imf. and how will we look to the outside world if we try to get one or one and a half million member states to bail out of their current account deficits with imf aid? there is no crisis mechanism, because there is no system that works, that in a crisis, the capital pump from a non-euro area member state has to stop, for example in the financial sector, and then the pump really starts. the ecb is also unable to do anything about it, as it is not very willing to issue any liquidity problems in exchange for a forint collateral, whereas it should have given nothing but foreign currency liquidity to hungary, as the banks were not indebted. as for the hungarian report, in 2006, the hungarian report started with an improvement in the situation analysis - i remember a little bit of chernobyl from '86 - that the first day they announced that there was no problem, and then the situation improved continuously. we were afraid that the radiation would be negative at the end. and we actually started from that, and everybody forgets what happened until 2006, and since then, the surveillance, the surveillance of the foreign exchange flows has been very lagging behind. this 25 billion ceiling -- let me just say this -- that seems very low. this is already embedded in the fact that we want to cooperate with the imf, whereas there is very little more terrifying than relying on the imf. it would be very important to involve parliament and at the same time to create speed. i believe that these two things are now coming together, and i am grateful to both the commission and parliament for this, but i say again that we must create a mechanism to prevent the recurrence of the many misfortunes that have occurred in connection with the hungarian crisis and which have not raised the prestige of the european union in central and eastern europe. thank you, mr. president, for the floor.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you for your time, mr. president. yes, my dear fellow members of the house. as a non-econ member, allow me to approach the issue of today from a different perspective. the financial crisis in the united states last year has reached europe this year, shaking our financial markets, which until then had been considered stable, to their very foundations. instead of a single eu solution, it was a long hesitation to agree on a country-specific response that would consume hundreds of billions of euros. these individual national solutions could not be a way of dealing with the crisis for the new european member states, which are simply not able to move billions of euros on their own. they may have initially hoped that since their banks had not engaged in dubious, speculative overseas business, this international credit crisis might spare them. however, the lack of funds and the crisis of confidence associated with the international financial crisis have also greatly shaken public finances in need of foreign credit, even contributing to speculative attacks on national currencies. in this situation, it was very important that the new member states receive not only moral but also concrete, tangible financial support from eu membership, i.e. that the eu extend its protection to countries that have not yet joined the euro area. this was motivated not only by solidarity as a european principle but also by the common european interest in preventing a bank - let alone a country - from becoming insolvent, in order to avoid a domino effect. with this in mind, the aid package is now being increased from 12 billion to 25 billion. under this facility, the ecb provided a rescue package of eur 6.5 billion to hungary, which was hit hardest by the financial crisis. this was a very fair and very equitable solution, as hungary has not only been at the forefront of reforms and european integration for decades, but is also the country that, on the basis of its convergence programme adopted in 2006 and its consistent implementation, has already halved the budget deficit from around 10% last year and is reducing it to 3% this year. the eu also expects the international financial organisations to help it to continue this process of consolidation. the financial and credit crisis has now put the whole world economy in a difficult situation, which each eu member state is trying to manage individually according to its own means and very particular objectives. in order to avoid the new member states lacking such instruments from being the losers, and to ensure that europe as a whole emerges from the crisis as one, a common european economic crisis strategy would be needed in addition to the coordination of current actions. i hope that the current financial rescue package is a first step towards this, and that once it is adopted, we can concentrate all our efforts on solving the real economic crisis. thank you for the word.
thank you, mr president. officer, this is a respected reporter. europe is moving from an idea of solidarity to an economic association and is showing the face of a strong political community. at the outbreak of the crisis, we saw europe split economically and socially for a moment, but we were able to prevent this, thanks to the commission's effective and swift action. hungary first approached the community and asked for its support. the 20 billion euro of aid or financing needed, however, would not have been possible from this source alone. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner, the european parliament for their swift response, the solidarity of their colleagues, for what it is worth to be european. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the hungarian socialist delegation voted for the reports by mr capoulas santos because they are much more favourable to the new member states, and to hungary as well. the compulsory and progressive modulation are not as drastic as in the commission proposal. i regret that we did not vote in favour of the alde amendment on compulsory modulation. it is regrettable, but it is a good report nonetheless. as regards the second report, amendment no 67 was proposed by the socialist group. it is very important, as far as the intervention system is concerned, that it should not be based on tenders. maintaining the current system is a very positive thing. that is why we voted for it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much for the floor, mr. president. officer, my colleagues. important and long-term reports are being debated and adopted by parliament tomorrow in this package of immigration regulations. currently, there are 27 different systems in the union governing the situation of third-country nationals. the two new directives provide for a simplified procedure for highly qualified workers and include easier entry and residence. we can see that these two regulations are able to introduce a well-functioning system of compromise instead of today's fragmented regulation. the european people's party rapporteurs have done a serious and substantial job in this. the report on the employment of highly qualified workers, known as the blue card, is a balanced, good report. special praise is due to ewa klamt, the reporter. we also congratulate mr. gaubert on his report. the people's party is committed to ensuring that the clause on preferential treatment for eu citizens is an important part of the directive. i would therefore like to draw the attention of those colleagues who object to the principle of preferential treatment and who would therefore like to remove the principle from the report by their amendments, that as a hungarian citizen, but also on behalf of all citizens of the new member states, i consider it unacceptable that it should not be clearly stated that a worker from a member state enjoys an advantage over workers from a third country outside the union. this is particularly unacceptable and shows a double-dealing when we, the citizens of the new member states, are discriminated against in many of the old member states in accessing the labour market today and for who knows how long. europe is ashamed to speak of a common union in a way that still treats the citizens of the new member states as second-class citizens in this area. thank you for your attention.
in writing. immigration has long been one of the most important economic and social issues for the european union. in an ageing europe, there is a general consensus that the need to replace the workforce is essential to maintain and increase competitiveness. promoting immigration as a common response requires not only eu regulation but also a balanced strategy that takes into account both sustainable development and social balance. the report by mrs klamt on the european blue card is welcome because it provides more acceptable conditions of employment for highly qualified workers from third countries, takes account of family relations and also of the possible temporary repatriation of workers. however, i am particularly pleased that we are tackling this together with the gaubert report on the single residence and work permit, because this way we can avoid even the appearance that europe is only open to highly qualified workers. the internal social balance of the eu also requires a rethinking of the impact of a financial and economic crisis such as the current one on europe's interests. increasing unemployment itself creates social tensions, and we must therefore avoid exacerbating already existing internal ethnic and racial tensions in the context of immigration, because this not only provokes a strengthening of the far right, but in the longer term may also arouse resentment towards the eu - despite the fact that the union played only a stabilising role in the crisis.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for your time, mr. president. the title of our parliament's resolution is 'how to bring space down to earth'. my dear colleagues, the average european citizen uses 50 satellites a day. the use of space has become a part of our daily lives. the question is whether europe can contribute to this process, whether it can actively shape the use of space. we need to make some determinations. space is our shared and global value. international cooperation is therefore of paramount importance to europe. however, europe can only play a meaningful role in this if it creates its own political, technological and operational autonomy. so this is important for parliament. the recent global financial and partly economic crisis has made it clear that there is a significant upswing in high-tech initiatives to boost our competitiveness, such as the exploitation of space. in addition, we are increasingly relying on space technologies to address the challenges and related challenges. such as understanding and monitoring climate change, or building our security in defense, in disaster prevention, or in the ever-expanding range of navigation and communications services. so we're talking about strategic issues here today. the european parliament wishes to play a constructive role in this process. first of all, by supporting structured dialogue between the eu institutions and intergovernmental institutions, and by doing so we believe that the opportunity for participation, open and fair access, is created for all member states. our joint european project, galileo, has been a breakthrough in many ways. to name a few: the galileo interinstitutional panel, which is a model for closer cooperation, has been established, or we have been able to establish the necessary joint funding for our major projects, and it has been incorporated into the european budget, but this is just the beginning. the galileo programme, as commissioner verheugen has mentioned, has recorded the participation of smes, because we now know that spin-off companies will be able to do great things in the high-tech world. the european people's party - european democrats have made a number of proposals, and this applies to our industrial policy, where there is still a great deal to be done to make it a suitable basis. we also need to strengthen our role in research and development, and these capabilities are also needed in defence and security policy. this is how europe's space policy becomes part of europe's identity. thank you for the word.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i was very happy to hear the commissioner mention the round table which i co-hosted and co-chaired. miguel angel martínez and commissioner vassiliou also participated and were actively engaged in it. aids is one of the most serious diseases of our century. within the european union alone, 215 000 people were newly infected with hiv in the last 10 years. according to estimates this year almost one third of the aids infection – as my good colleague mentioned – still remained undiagnosed, posing a real threat to the health of european citizens. it is high time to take concrete steps so we have put forward practical suggestions on how to combat hiv/aids effectively by focusing on evidence based hiv/aids early diagnosis and early care. it is not only a health-related question. it is a strategic matter for the future enlargement of the eu and crucial in the field of neighbourhood and migration policy. we should combine the different eu policies to emphasise the right of each single european citizen for better health and living conditions, not forgetting the role of women. they are the most endangered groups when it comes to hiv/aids. ensuring accurate monitoring surveillance of the disease is of the highest urgency. early diagnosis and the reduction of barriers to testing are regarded as an urgent necessity. steps must be taken to ensure access to free and anonymous testing in order to facilitate more people seeking testing. hiv/aids reduction strategies must be worked out in each member state and these must focus on vulnerable groups and groups known to be at high risk. the strategy shall also include information and education campaigns on the preventing, testing and treatment of hiv/aids. we must recognise that increased investment in research and development for more effective therapeutic and preventive tools, such as vaccines and microbicides, will be essential to securing the long-term success of hiv and aids responses. discrimination against people living with hiv/aids must be effectively outmoded across the european union. the struggle against hiv/aids must not result in any discriminatory effect on hiv-positive citizens, including restrictions that impact on their freedom of movement. the cross-party ep resolution tackles all the situations together. the aim is common and the enlarged europe can become the initiator of enhanced international cooperation on evidence based hiv/aids early diagnosis and early care in the near future. i am convinced that, if early diagnosis and an early care system work as a pilot programme, it may be possible to use it as a common european tool for other health-related policies. i am really thankful to all my colleagues who supported this initiative and worked on it.
thank you for your time, mr. president. for me, a representative of a new member state, absent from the house by mrs gräßle, this discharge is important in two respects. firstly, it is the first year of the 2007-13 period, so the conclusions that we are now making will have an impact on further uses. secondly, this is the year that gives the european parliament and the commission their last discharge, so it is worthwhile to draw up a balance sheet. some of my colleagues may not agree with me, but i am of the opinion that although we have not achieved our main objective of a positive das, we can look back with a happy face on the results achieved together. the commission, led by vice-president siim kallas and the parliament, led by cocobu, has not only succeeded in keeping its own accounts and expenditure in order, but has also, through hard work, made the member states responsible for 80% of expenditure increasingly willing to cooperate in the field of control. i know that we still have a lot of work to do in this respect in the area of the agricultural and cohesion funds, but we cannot ignore the changed world economic conditions in the implementation of these tasks. in the current crisis, it is of paramount importance, especially for the new member states, that eu funds are used as quickly as possible, with as little democracy as possible. this objective should be achieved without increasing the risk of payments. i therefore welcome the fact that the european court of auditors is also proposing simplifications in this area. it is now up to the commission and the member states to make this happen. thank you very much.
madam president, i would like to congratulate dr gräßle. our rapporteur tried to reconcile all the parties and by doing this she could identify current problems, could find practical solutions and could find compromise. at present things are not too satisfactory. we see the court of auditors refusal to sign off the eu’s account for the 14th time in a row due to the number of irregularities and fraud cases which involve eu money. it is high time to support a tougher approach tackling the misuse of eu funds. since the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office is postponed, it is high time to move forward in the fight against fraud by strengthening the independence of the european anti-fraud office and by strengthening the investigative power of olaf. there is an important point in the gräßle report: strengthening cooperation with the member states. although the regulation states that all national and international partners must provide all the cooperation necessary, there is no detailed legal basis for such cooperation. the number of obstacles even increases when we come to cross-border anti-fraud cooperation. there is a great need, therefore, for the amended regulation which comprises a better cooperation management between olaf and the competent authorities of the member states. the only institution which really has the means to protect the financial interest of the eu is the european parliament. if we do not stand up for the fight against corruption and fraud, there is no one to replace us. finally, i would like to raise an interesting point. while the european countries are among the so-called ‘cleanest countries’ in the 2008 global corruption perception index, according to recent studies these wealthy countries like to show preference for using illegal means, for example bribery, in their outside overseas businesses. i agree with all those who find these double standards unacceptable.
in writing. i welcome the pan-european efforts to deal with the crisis and the proposals to preserve european jobs and create new ones. i would also like to point out that countries in difficult fiscal situations, such as hungary, have no monetary or substantial fiscal or tax relief instruments to alleviate the crisis. the main ways of stimulating the economy are thus through the reallocation of european resources, their efficient use, the reduction of wage costs, the improvement of competition rules and the reduction of administrative costs. i am particularly pleased that commissioner joaquín almunia is supporting our dual efforts in this direction. i therefore attach great importance to the proposals on the structural funds, and i strongly support their adoption as soon as possible. accelerating the adoption of large projects and supporting loans to smes can contribute to stimulating demand. however, i still do not consider our efforts to help the most deprived to be sufficient, so i am proposing to include the possibility of closing down and rebuilding as part of the changes to housing subsidies. in the backward areas, in settlements, there are settlements, parts of settlements that are not suitable for renovation, and in their place, the construction of modern, energy-saving housing should be initiated. this will help to achieve the union's energy saving and job creation objectives, while also providing a significant boost to the most deprived.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, minister and members of the european parliament. in the past year, significant progress has been made in recognising at european level that it is in the common interest of european societies to welcome 10 million roma living in extreme poverty into the member states and to enforce their rights as citizens of the european union. i feel like i'm stuck in the process. the european parliament, the ngos and the commission believe that there is a need for european professional supervision and community control, because although the member states have declared their intention to achieve the integration of roma in their countries in the vision they have presented to the european union, their national budgets and their achievements so far do not support this. the sparse projects financed from eu funds have not produced any significant results. the economic and residential exclusion of europe's roma, their exclusion from quality education, and their worrying health indicators have not improved, but are worsening, further weakening europe's social cohesion. a much broader approach than the project-based approach used so far is needed, a professional approach that addresses roma and non-roma communities together, that builds on the areas listed together, that crosses parties and cycles, and that is based on the assumption that the need for a unified european action prepared under the french presidency will be taken up by successive presidencies. it is essential that immediate measures be taken to integrate the roma and to put their economic capacity at the service of european development. we have seen successes since the beginning of cohesion policy until enlargement in 2004, but three more decades is too long. this is exactly where crisis management comes in. the thousands of roma ghettos can only be dismantled by reintegration into the labour market, by making the most of new and unexplored areas of the economy, such as renewable and alternative energy or environmental protection, and by creating quality integrated education. the roma's own identity, their national identity linked to their mother country and their social and economic identity must be strengthened simultaneously. the €5 million 'pilot project' in the 2009 budget provides an opportunity to talk about this, but the process cannot stop there. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on 31 january, here in this chamber, we adopted by a large majority the parliamentary resolution clearly calling on the european commission to develop an eu roma strategy. education, housing, employment, health, four priority areas, with financial and human resources allocated. the commission's resolution which we have just heard is not a very convincing statement, and i must say that it reminded me eerily of the propaganda reports of the socialist dictatorships in eastern europe. as then, so now, success, progress, positive messages everywhere, while in reality, roma still live in camps, ghettos, facing daily humiliation, discrimination, and in the worst cases, outright racist attacks, resulting in almost 30,000 roma from italy alone migrating across the union to finally settle in one of the member states. i have in my hand, commissioner, a letter from vice-president barrot dated 6 november, in which he assures me, together with four of my colleagues in parliament, that i quote with regard to the eu roma strategy, we can be sure that commissioner špidla will work closely with him to ensure that the strategy meets the expectations of roma civil society organisations. this is not a strategy, it's a roma integration platform. how do you explain that? i heard almost nothing but criticism from civilians about the european roma summit, about how much more they expected from this historic summit and how they were not included in the preparations. but i'll go further: it's still unclear how the berlusconi government reported the results of the fingerprinting in italy to the european commission.
mr. president, i have to go. this debate today is part of a process that has important decisions to make, and i would like to stress once again that the situation of europe's largest minority can be described as a developing world problem. of course, you can put them down in this state, saying that it's their fault, but their education, housing, health, employment situation is in the third world, and these 10 or 12 million people have no chance of breaking out of poverty and exclusion without immediate, focused, targeted outside help. such a degree of social segregation is an obstacle to the fundamental promotion of roma human dignity and equality of opportunity. europe has been decades past the time when it could have looked back and seen such a huge number of people living in a society that had been divided for generations, with such economic potential. there has never been a stage of economic development that has opened up a real path of mobility for those at the bottom of the social ladder. the responsibility is shared, mainly because the situation of roma in the newly acceded and candidate countries has not changed fundamentally after enlargement or in the hope of it. at the same time, the increasingly open and extreme views in europe are becoming a rallying cry for anti-gypsyism, which we must call to an end. the fact that this is on the agenda shows that we have work to do, and many of them have been listed by commissioner špidla and supplemented by my colleagues. let us put our efforts together, the subject will be brought before parliament again in february.
despite the commitment of the european institutions to respecting european values and fundamental rights and to combating discrimination, the reality of roma integration in europe is a depressing one. the majority of roma in europe live in poor social conditions and face the same problems as years ago, mainly the problem of exclusion, lack of employment, the issue of segregation in schools, the multiple disadvantages faced by roma women. in the context of the european economic crisis, it is easy to find fault with the most vulnerable groups in society, with the increase in violence against roma and the attacks on innocent people, which have often resulted in death. in a situation like this, the solution is not to collect ethnically discriminatory fingerprints or to create violent organizations, guards, that act in a way that is dissuasive, that is frightening to decent people. the real answer is a european roma strategy based on five areas: education, employment, housing, health and active roma participation in society. without this, there is no european roma policy, and no national roma policy.
author. − mr president, we all here in parliament welcome the achievement of the last five years brought about by the commission, especially mr verheugen, together with the european parliament and with european enterprises: our achievement to change our approach to european enterprises, an achievement which has a name now – the think small first principle, laid down in the small business act. we have to work on this act. the current economic crisis underscores the need to adopt the small business act as soon as possible. the 23 million european enterprises and the two-thirds of european employees involved need an unambiguous message that the change in our legislative approach to think small first is a real basis for our future work and behaviour. the very first signal that we are doing that is the ‘small sme’ test. therefore, because of the need for an unambiguous message, we are very sorry that the council did not give a binding character to the provisions laid down in the small business act. we really hope that in the european council next week you will come back to this question and that the prime ministers of the member states will give some binding character to this small business act. however, we welcome the council decision on the priority actions. we think it is very important to think small first in order to improve the access to finance; very important to think small first to simplify the regulatory environment; and very important to think small first to facilitate market access. we ask the commission and the council to act together. a more european answer is needed. multi-country responses can be very effective but can result in divergence rather than the cohesion which we wish for under the european idea. therefore it is critical that the commission improve the procedures for yearly reporting by the member states with the support of the lisbon scoreboard and i ask the council if it is ready to do so. european citizens, entrepreneurs and employees need ideas, but they need more. they need innovation in our procedures, but it will not be enough. they need action, but even then it will not be enough. we need delivery based on our ideas, innovation and actions. please go for it. the parliament will support you on that.
mr. president, st. stephen, king of hungary, founded the diocese of transylvania in 1009, a thousand years ago. this momentous event in church history symbolized the accession of hungary to the christian faith and to contemporary europe. in the 16th-17th centuries, gyulafehérvár was the capital of the independent principality of transylvania, transylvania became a symbol of tolerance and religious freedom. in 1918, the romanian national assembly in gyulafehérvár declared in a resolution the right of transylvanian hungarians to collective self-determination. romania is still indebted to europe for this decision. in the spirit of the white castle, i propose that the archdiocese of millennium... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, the committee on budgets was aware of the moral responsibility which the european union has towards the countries of the world which are in difficulty. but, my dear officer, don't be sorry for a moment that we couldn't find money from chapter two for this noble cause. we should not regret this, because we have the same moral obligations towards european farmers, who have been told for years that there is no money for this, that there is no money for that, and that farmers in the new member states will have to wait 10 years to be subjected to the same assessment. elsewhere, the money had to be found in the right place, and as this speaker said, we did find it. i think it was a good job, and we should be proud of it. the committee on budgets had another problem: we were not convinced that - as the commissioner said - the commission had reacted quickly, that the european commission's proposal was appropriate in all respects. what we missed, for example, is that the idea of microcredit didn't come up in the original material. the committee on budgets considers that it is very difficult to decide from brussels, or even from the headquarters of other international organisations, how a farmer in a difficult situation in a difficult region can get ahead. the microcredit system has been a very good system, it has helped many countries in difficulty, and we are very grateful that the deve committee has accepted the proposals of the committee on budgets in this direction. officer, i can't guarantee, but i can predict with high probability that this vote will end tomorrow to your and all concerned's satisfaction. thank you for your kind attention.
the rapporteur. - my colleagues, officer. thank you for staying here to listen at this late hour. i am very pleased to present this motion for a resolution to you today. i am glad that this shows that the european parliament is interested in monitoring and improving the situation of women in the balkans. i am convinced that this is in our common interest and responsibility, because the union cannot close itself off. we all know that the countries in the region have been through some very serious trauma not so long ago. they put forth great effort to master their problems, and for this they are to be admired. but i think that a very important resource is not being taken into account, and that is women. it is true that women suffered particularly during the war, but we must bear in mind that they are not just victims but active, active, useful and indispensable elements of democratic stabilisation and reconstruction. i have never been in favour of giving women a special status, but i can say with confidence that they should be given the same opportunities as men. no more, no less than that. it's no different in this case. women can only fill this role if they are given the opportunity. and what is that option? since women make up half the population, they should be given a proportionate decision-making role. i know that many people think that quotas are not the answer, but i have to say that we have not yet found a more efficient administrative solution. the economic emancipation of women is among the first tasks. working women are more useful members of society and less vulnerable. if they do, however, they cannot be allowed to be excluded from leading positions in economic life. at the same time, if we are talking about hardworking women, we need to give them the opportunity to reconcile this with their family commitments. this requires a positive change in society's attitude towards women, and the elimination of negative stereotypes. education and the media have a prominent role to play in this. i could go on and on, but i want to highlight two very important points because of the shortness of time. first of all, we must never forget that there are several countries in a given region that cannot be grouped under one umbrella, treated in the same way. every country is working hard in every area, including improving the status of women. of course, there are those who are already ahead in this fight, and there are those who are less so. i tried to get a sense of that in the chart attached to the report. secondly, the prospect of future eu membership provides a strong motivation for these countries to achieve their objectives. it is important that this period is also fully exploited in this respect, and we shall exploit it. my report was intended to show that they are on the right track, to pay tribute to their efforts and to wish them perseverance in the future. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the secretariat of the femm committee, mr rudolfs verdins and mrs elvy svennerstal, the secretariat of the socialist group, mrs effy tsonos and mrs majella mccone, my colleagues in the house, the shadow rapporteurs, ms marie panayotopoulos-cassioto, mrs doris pack, mrs edith bauer, ms járóka livia, mr filiz hyusmenova, mrs emine bozkurt, mrs anni podima, ms marusya lyubcheva and many others for the great help they have given me in my work. i would like to thank the secretariat of the people's party, the greens and, of course, the liberals for their tireless work and their willingness to compromise until the last minute. last but not least, my direct co-workers. i am very proud that the motion for a resolution which you have before you today reflects a broad compromise, and that is why the message of the european parliament is, i believe, clear, unambiguous and strong. i hope that by reading between the lines, you will also understand my goal to make the report positive and encouraging. thank you for your attention. it's nice to have mr. verheugen, who was our expansion officer, here with us.
in writing. the problems of discrimination that roma communities face remain unresolved throughout europe. in both old and new member states, as well as in candidate countries, integration policies are generally weak, sporadic and administered on a case-by-case basis. romani women throughout the balkans face discrimination not only because of their gender, but also on account of the ethnic group to which they belong. due to their marginalisation from mainstream society, romani women encounter discrimination which influences their access to healthcare, quality education, housing and employment. it is extremely important that candidate and potential candidate countries in the balkans guarantee the elimination of all forms of discrimination and prejudice against romani women and introduce an effective and practical anti-discrimination strategy to be implemented at all levels (national and local). it is obvious that the european union's enlargement process, through the use of its tool the copenhagen criteria, has the potential to significantly change the situation of the roma in the balkans. for this reason it is crucial that the european commission adopt an effective monitoring system in order to measure the real efforts made in minority and women's rights in the balkans, which will then demonstrate full compliance with the political criteria for accession.
thank you, mr president. we are all committed to stopping climate change, to preventing the global environmental catastrophe that threatens humanity. of course, we also know that this has a serious cost, which we as citizens must pay sooner or later. we also know that the later we act, the greater the damage, the more irreversible the process, the more we have to pay. the question is whether we are brave enough to take the initiative and make the necessary sacrifices, and how to share the burden between the various social and economic actors. the package of legislation before us shows that the union is committed to action, but it also shows that it is unfortunately biased, inconsistent and double-dealing in its implementation. it allows some member countries to release more in 2020 than they promised in kyoto for 2010. and others, the ones who were doing well before, they don't get enough incentive. why should we ignore the fact that some member states are living up to their promises while others are making huge sacrifices? nor do i understand why the cement industry has to cut twice as much as the waste industry or transportation. it's not the brave government, minister, that dares to punish corporations harshly, it's the brave government that treats you with the same severity. not a wise government that takes its citizens' money abroad in the form of cdm, but one that invests it at home, within the eu, reducing our energy dependence by creating new, marketable, clean technologies. the current global economic recession is not a reason to stand still, but, on the contrary, an opportunity to break out. europe's historic responsibility and opportunity is to take a leading role in this third industrial revolution. thank you very much for your attention.
mr president, many of the new member states, like hungary after the end of the 1980s and the collapse of the old industry, reduced their greenhouse gas emissions. due to this process, every sixth hungarian – about a million people – lost his or her job. as the basis for the reduction here in the current proposal is 2005 and not 1990, some older member states could raise their emission values without any consequences. this is very unfair to the new member states. after the losses in our economy we need fair compensation. district heating is mainly a social question in many new member states. the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that gives free allowances for district heating in the ets is essential for us, and we must keep this achievement during the trialogue as well. i think that the use of carbon capture and storage should be judged by the market and the competition. as this is a very new and expensive technology, we have to be more cautious before subsidising it with public money. my last point is that without a proper penalty system the whole package will fail. if we do not force the member states to keep to the emission limits, all our efforts are wasted. that is why i urge this parliament to insist that we should keep our achievements concerning the penalty system because, without a penalty system, there will be no working system at all.
in writing. when we talk about developments in the eu climate package, we cannot leave out the possible consequences of the financial crisis. if governments focus their accumulated financial reserves on bank bailouts, vital energy investments may be delayed. despite the crisis, europe urgently needs to invest in the deployment of renewable energy sources and in substantial improvements in energy efficiency. we need to invest today to make renewables competitive in the near future. the commission has therefore decided to set up a european energy fund. the financial instrument in question would primarily promote energy efficiency improvements and the uptake of renewable energy sources. moreover, if we really want to strengthen the common eu energy and climate policy, this will have to be reflected in the next seven-year budget. while strengthening community support, member states should be given sufficient freedom to define their own climate policy toolbox, taking into account different regional characteristics. the temporary reduction in the price of conventional energy sources should not lull decision-makers; it should not put an end to commitments on renewable energy sources. if the european union loses sight of its own objectives in the face of the crisis, this could have a detrimental impact on its credibility and its leadership in the field of climate change.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the financial crisis does not mean that we should cut aid to the hungry in the third world. i would also point out that there are people in the european union who are also facing difficulties because of the rising food prices. and not just in the new member states, but in the old ones as well. one reason for the rise in food prices is undoubtedly the increase in biofuel production. if fuel can be sold at a higher price, it either drives out or raises the price of food that can be sold at a lower price. the eu should therefore not import biofuels from a country or a larger area where they threaten the cheap food supply of the local population. biofuels play an important role in renewable energy, but if used carelessly, they can cause serious tragedies. therefore, the european union's biofuel consumption should be based on production within the union as a matter of principle. because of the rise in local food prices and the threat to rainforests, such imports from the third world are not recommended at all.
the future of the climate package is still uncertain, as it will be decided in a few days or weeks. but i would like to emphasize one thing: district heating has been exempted from the so-called climate tax. i think this is very important. hungarian representatives, including myself, have taken the initiative to make this happen. we think that the people who live in these district heating apartments are primarily low-income people who can't afford to take on additional burdens. on the other hand, we should also be aware that district heating is an environmentally friendly heating method, since individual heating is in any case exempt from any climate tax, and i therefore think that the support thus generated should be given to modernise district heating systems. and if we use eu money to upgrade district heating in the countries of central and eastern europe, then, of course, we can no longer expect a similar discount after 2020.
on this day in december 1989, the movement began in timişoara, which led to the fall of the infamous nationalist, communist, atheist dictatorship of ceauşescu in a week with phenomenal speed. on the morning of december 15, hungarian reformed believers, standing up in defense of their church and its pastor, with surprising courage drove out the securitate and militia agents and then formed a chain of life around the church. within hours, hundreds of romanians, hungarians, germans, serbs, catholics, baptists, evangelicals, orthodox christians, and jews joined the resistance. the peaceful demonstration turned into an anti-regime and anti-communist demonstration. in 1989, timişoara in transylvania became the first free city in romania. by god's grace, faith in action has won freedom. blessed be the memory of the heroes, the martyrs and the victims. we must continue the democratic transition! from romania, the road to europe leads through thames.
mr president, at the end of may the french national assembly voted in favour of the amendment to the french constitution concerning respect for regional languages which could constitute the french national heritage. it might have been hoped that this decision would mark the beginning of a decisive change in the french jacobin concept applied to regional languages and traditional national minorities. unfortunately, the french academy of sciences rejected it and put pressure on the senate, which finally voted against this positive amendment to the french constitution which would have been important not only for france but for the whole european union. i believe that education in alsatian, breton or catalan, or the use of these languages in the administration, would not in any way threaten the territorial integrity or national unity of the french nation, quite the contrary. mr president, long live the francophonie, long live the regional languages, long live the linguistic diversity! (applause) i would like to thank
it was a wonderful feeling for all of us a year ago that a very important new stage in the enlargement of the european union had taken place: the schengen borders had been removed in a very large area, the schengen community had been enlarged with new members. a year has passed. since then, many have benefited from it. but there are also disadvantages to the benefits, disadvantages where it seems that certain people are more interested in isolation. roads that could be used for cars are closed off by signs or by flower gardens. mr. president, i have to go. it would be very good if every european citizen understood that freedom of movement is a common asset and should not be restricted for any reason, as is the case in the vicinity of sátoraljaújhely.
we have seen in the past that there is a tremendous amount of public attention on this issue, and mostly on the elements that we are discussing, the opt-out and the time-of-care issues. there are two arguments for opt-out: one is the flexibility aspect, and the other is the free choice aspect. we pretend that the employer and the employee are in fact equal parties as if they are not equal and it is clearly one of the tasks and functions of labour law to correct this inequality. as the socialists have said, the beggar and the billionaire have the same right to sleep under the bridge. in this sense, of course, it is a free contract situation. but it's really an unequal situation, and it's not about flexibility, it's not about flexibility, it's about maintaining that inequality. the solution developed in parliament's first reading is also very helpful in terms of flexibility. you can work up to 72 hours over 26 weeks, so you can adjust to the market demands, the many orders, the many jobs. of course, you have to rest at some point, and i think that is what a directive on health and safety at work should be about. and as for business hours, if a bookstore or a clothing store doesn't have any customers or customers coming in one morning, does that mean that the shop assistant is also working in inactive hours, and that's not what counts? the correct position is that if a person does not have free time, he has to go to work, then this should be considered working time. it is another matter that the remuneration of work can be agreed by the appropriate organisations and negotiations between employers and workers. it can therefore be adapted to the realities of each country, within national jurisdiction, but working time is working time and should be treated as such. i therefore agree with the court, i do not support and i do not agree with the council's compromise.
in writing. the european union already has a rule on the division of working time. according to this, the average work week is 48 hours. in practice, this means that the worker can work 8 hours 6 days a week for an average of 4 months. i think that should be enough, because doing more work than that is detrimental to work efficiency in the long run. the council compromise, which contains rules less favourable than the existing rules and which is not supported by the governments of belgium, cyprus, spain and my country, hungary, among others, is unacceptable to the european socialists. the social europe, even in times of economic difficulties, cannot be an empty phrase. the rapporteur of the parliament, mr cercas, showed sufficient receptivity during the negotiations, allowing, for example, the 48-hour rule to be applied for an average of 12 months in order to ensure flexibility. but we cannot accept that legislation should allow for a 60- to 65-hour week or, in extreme cases, a 70- to 72-hour week. nor can the view be supported that the rules can be opt-out for an unlimited period. first of all, because the relationship between employees and employers can never be equal. i consider it hypocritical to think that the idle part of the working day is not included in working hours. i suggest that during the demonstration in front of parliament on wednesday, the day of the vote, they sit down with some of the workers and have a conversation.
the rules for using eu aid are designed to ensure that our resources are used in the best possible way and put to the best possible place. in other words, the aid must not only be spent, but investments must be made that will bring about a real change. however, to achieve these goals, we often create a bureaucratic regulatory system that tends to impede effective use, putting unnecessary burdens on both businesses and administrations. rationalizing the revenue-generating rules has a double benefit. the eu's economic stimulus aid will be more easily and in greater numbers available to smes, and the administration will be able to assess the legality of the use of the aid more quickly and easily. we must trust our entrepreneurs, our economic operators, and we can only get through this crisis by working together and helping each other. i support the proposal and i also ask the commission to continue along this path, to remove unnecessary administrative barriers from the aid system. i very much hope that this premiere will be followed by other similar good initiatives.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the french presidency, which has been very ambitious, very consistent and very effective. firstly, i very much appreciate your efforts to bring the financial and economic crisis under control. i would like to personally thank mr sarkozy and mr barroso, on behalf of the hungarian people, for the help they have given my country. secondly, i should like to congratulate you on your approach to agriculture. the adoption of the health check and the start of the reflection period are very positive initiatives. they should continue under french patronage. thirdly, the energy-climate package is the result of a historic compromise. the compensation granted to the new member states cannot completely dispel our feeling of being discriminated against. finally, the handling of the crisis between georgia and russia was very positive and helped to avoid a cooling of relations between russia and the european union.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the french presidency on its historic work. the $200 billion economic development plan, simplifying the rules, making the institutional system work faster are changes that are effective. these are measures that could be conducive to boosting the european economy. however, the lack of social balance has always been a serious problem for europe. the impact of the crisis is sharply widening social disparities in many countries. we need to take emblematic and effective steps to address further social tensions and prevent the spread of aggression for the benefit of the most vulnerable citizens. i am pleased that we can extend the renovation of social housing to the renovation of low-income housing units, but we must not forget that there are rural, impoverished settlements that would be a mistake to renovate, and therefore we must allow the elimination of segregated settlements. we must act to end poverty, or the economic crisis could take a dangerous social turn.
in writing. in december 2007, the european council invited the european commission to assess the means available for the social inclusion of roma. contrary to expectations, the published working document remained within the narrow framework of evaluation of existing community policies. the first european roma summit took place in september, without any concrete recommendations or agenda. on 8 december, the general affairs council called on the commission to report on progress achieved by early 2010. the development of a progressive community strategy can be based on the broadest possible forum, on initiatives targeting both roma and non-roma civil society, and on the combination of science, the churches and the business community. much more is needed than a presentation of good practices that are overly positive: a comprehensive strategy that addresses all areas of roma concern together, giving a clear picture of how community initiatives are implemented at local level, how they can encourage and support the most important local implementation in terms of social inclusion. a roadmap based on enforceable legal bases should be made available to member states, ensuring clear and verifiable objectives, including through sanctions. the strategy should also address issues closely related to the social inclusion of roma, such as environmental protection, health, multiple discrimination or the fight against anti-roma sentiment in the media and other areas of social life.
it was drafted by the international trade commission. − the international trade committee focused on biofuels, which have an international trade context. the international trade commission considers that international trade in biofuels, which may in this context be essentially imports from third countries, should not lead to environmental degradation and increased hunger at the global level. the international trade committee therefore recommends that member states should not take into account the use of imported biofuels that are involved in deforestation directly or indirectly imported from countries that otherwise receive international food aid or from countries that have imposed export quotas or other export restrictions on agricultural products in order to meet the biofuels target. i believe that europe is capable of producing biofuels and that the main way to reduce our energy dependence is to use biofuels produced in europe.
drafted by the committee on agriculture. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr turmes, on this extremely important directive. the committee on agriculture is pleased that the european commission has kept its word, because a year ago, when my report on biogas was adopted by parliament, mrs fischer-boel and i agreed that there would be no separate directive on biomass, but that the issue of biomass would be dealt with in the context of renewable energy sources. thank you for the european commission's correct observance of this. the committee on agriculture considers that biomass and biogas have a key role to play in renewable energy sources, but that biomass is unacceptable if it means deforestation and depriving crops of land suitable for food production. so bioenergy, biomass production, can never be at the expense of food production. the us bioethanol program is a negative example of the price-driving role of the us bioethanol program, which is based on corn. thank you for your attention.
i'd like to say a few words about biofuels. we know that this is a very controversial form of energy, because if we import it from the third world, it threatens to destroy the rainforest, or it induces hunger in a lot of places. at the same time, third generation biofuels in particular can also benefit our entire energy balance, so i think that we should basically produce biofuels from our own sources, basically using the surplus capacity of european agriculture for this purpose. to give you one example: in hungary, about 1 million hectares of arable land are lying fallow. if we could use these to produce biofuels in a pioneering way, while preserving the natural values of the area - and not by intensive cultivation - then we would be serving both the environment and the objective, as mr turmes said, of sourcing them primarily from our own sources, within europe...
drafted by the committee on regional development. − the proposal was also the subject of lengthy debate in parliament's committee on regional development. most of our proposals were aimed at recognising that this objective fundamentally affects the economic and social cohesion of the regions and that reducing co2 emissions can only be effectively achieved if it is integrated into cohesion policy. the greenhouse gas emission reduction considerations should be included in the conditionality of aid for structural improvements. while this commitment of the european union is binding on member state governments, it also places a heavy burden on member state local and regional authorities and other local and regional representative forums and bodies. this ambitious objective can only be achieved by continuous cooperation in the coordination and implementation of tasks, both vertically between central government and local regional bodies and horizontally between individual local regional bodies. it is a source of pleasure to see that we have moved in the right direction, but in addition to thinking in common, efforts must be stepped up in all eu member states.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i am very sorry that the minister is not in the chamber, but my group welcomes and supports the new eu climate and energy package and, as part of it, the legislation on burden sharing between member states. this is a significant step forward for the epp-ed, as previously unregulated areas will be regulated, so that from 2013 all sources of co2 emissions will be measured and regulated. the biggest advantage of the package is that i propose that there will be a trading system in the area of 'effort sharing', which will allow us to stimulate carbon reduction through market mechanisms, as in the ets. the primary objective of the epp is to increase eco-innovation within the union, to make the eu economy the most competitive in low-carbon technologies. unfortunately, this was only partially successful, as the council and the socialist group insisted on using too much cdm - almost 80% - . this cdm amount, together with the ets, is worth 63 billion euros, which i think is exaggerated. it is also regrettable that the prime minister's decision to require european companies to reduce emissions by two and a half times as much as member states is a particularly uneven burden-sharing in the current economic climate, to the detriment of european industry. member states have also been biased against each other, failing to reward those who have delivered on commitments and failing to punish those who have undermined the union's credibility on climate. at the same time, quota trading provides significant funding opportunities for already well-performing cee countries to achieve further carbon reductions in their domestic transport and agricultural sectors, which have high savings potential. overall, this legislation is complementary and, despite its shortcomings, is a pioneering step on the european union's long journey towards a climate-sustainable, low-carbon european society.
in writing. the european union has already made a strong commitment to combating climate change by adopting the climate and energy package. the agreement reached in secret over many months is without doubt of historical significance. at the same time, we must not ignore the fact that compromise is often marked by inconsistency. while the climate package has undergone a significant change compared to the commission's proposal, the most controversial contradiction has not been resolved. the regulation adopted by the council, by incorrectly setting the base year, covers up the member states' efforts to date in the field of emissions. all of this is to say that no matter what the results are, with a new regulation, everyone can start fresh. this is not motivating decision-makers to take the necessary action, but to constantly change the rules. we find it unacceptable that the present proposal treats equally those who have reduced their emissions to a large extent and those who have even increased them. we believe that the european union is undermining its own credibility if it adopts legislation which does not take account of the fulfilment of the kyoto commitments. we believe that the eu's ambitious climate targets are a step forward. but our joy would be more complete if the agreement had not become another reminder of double standards and inconsistency.
in writing. geological storage of carbon dioxide is undoubtedly an exciting technical challenge. however, it should not be forgotten that the ultimate goal of saving the environment and mitigating climate change is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this means reducing the use of fossil fuels rather than finding alternatives to storing emissions underground. and this technology is very expensive. the only country where this has been achieved on a commercial scale so far is norway, and it is estimated that the cost of storage could be as high as eur 100 per tonne. that kind of money could probably be spent in more useful ways, like supporting renewable energy. it would be particularly inappropriate to use community funds to finance research in the richest member states. if geological storage of carbon dioxide is really as good a solution as its proponents claim, then it has to survive in the market, in the market competition.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. we heard about the difficulties you had to face. these difficulties, under the leadership of jutta haug, i think we have solved quite successfully. i thank him for his work and for making all the groups feel that this budget is theirs. the budget is politics in numbers. what message does the european people's party see in this budget? we believe that european citizens should be given more security, and the european union is able and ready to provide that security. about a third of its budget is devoted to objectives that enhance this sense of security. the amendments by the european people's party and the european democrats have increased this by about 1 billion euros and thus made it more visible, so to support small businesses, to preserve jobs, if possible to increase their number, to develop the backward areas, to energy security, to support the design of projects such as nabucco. but food security is also very important today, not to mention protecting the schengen borders and stopping illegal immigration. of course, as good as this budget is, it's far from perfect. some of the errors are to be found in the member states. it is unacceptable that member states do not make use of the opportunities that the union provides them, leaving billions in the union's coffers unused. some member states have created artificial barriers, making it even more difficult to access applications than we have made it ourselves. the commission's efforts to simplify these processes are welcome, but we must not allow member states to create opposing effects, opposing changes. but we must not only look to the member states for fault. the union is unable to respond quickly to the challenges of a changing world. sure, we got the food stamps, but what a fight! and now that we should be moving forward, we also have problems with the economic crisis. i think that in the next period, in the next year, we need to make substantial simplifications, both within the existing framework and in order to have more flexibility. thank you for your attention, and i hope we have a good budget.
mr. president, i have to go. a serious problem in our budget, which has been recurring for years, is the significant discrepancy between commitments and actual payments. this gap has grown to an unacceptable level this year and is already jeopardising the seriousness and meaning of the whole budgetary procedure. we simply cannot afford to do this in 2009 in the midst of the economic and financial crisis. the commission and the member states have a common duty to speed up and simplify payments and thus restore the seriousness of the european union budget. secondly, i thank my colleagues for supporting many of the important proposals in the budgetary package i have just mentioned. this package set out five main priorities: modern environmental protection (including a 10% increase in the life programme), innovative business development, the fight against corruption, progressive social policies and a substantial increase in the world's largest student exchange programme, erasmus mundus. thank you so much for supporting me on this, i think it's important stuff. finally, every year i have to point out that the funding for foreign policy objectives is insufficient. it's even more apparent in next year's budget. it was only through budgeting tricks that we were able to secure funding for the most important purposes. there is only one reassuring solution to this unfortunate situation: a real and comprehensive mid-term review. if we do not do this, it will be difficult to take seriously the european union's ambition to be a global player in the world.
as i said at its first reading in october, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i welcome the eu budget for 2009 in several respects. on the one hand, it is significant and gratifying that next year 14 billion euros will be available for environmental protection, nature conservation and, above all, life+. on the other hand, it is worth noting that this amount is about 10% higher than last year, which shows that no one is doubting the importance of this area, especially climate change. the latter is also one of the budgetary priorities for next year. of course, all of this is tied to the southern vote today, where we're deciding on the climate package. although these draft laws fall short of our original vision in many respects, they are ambitious compared to the commission proposal published last january. and to achieve the goals they set, it takes money and political will. in total, small but important projects worth eur 7.5 million are being launched in the future. the substantive work, the tendering and the announcement are expected early next year, but the commission has already indicated on several occasions how important it is to see these projects come to fruition and to ensure maximum cooperation. since the october plenary session, only the european food safety authority (efsa) has not made substantial progress. we are still obliged to recommend that the 10% reserve should be maintained, but i hope that this problem will be solved soon. these are my observations, my suggestions, which are essentially the same as those made at first reading. i ask the house to vote in favour of these amendments now at second reading. i also congratulate jutta haug on her report. thank you very much.
in writing. – we ought to be concerned - in line with our rapporteur - about the negative effects on european citizens that will arise as a consequence of global recession. our concern should be particularly focused on the most disadvantaged of our citizen, those who will without any doubt suffer the most from the effect of the financial turmoil. the union ought to maximize its efforts in facilitating the access to available resources - within the ceilings of the agreed multiannual financial framework 2007-2013 - for beneficiaries on the ground and we should therefore particularly improve and simplify measures in order to accelerate the implementation of structural and cohesion funds. as a matter of fact, the low levels of payments in the implementation of cohesion policy do not reflect the needs on the ground when facing the challenges of the current economic crisis. cohesion policy is the greatest instrument of solidarity in the union and its role in tackling the negative effects of a global crisis of this scale is essential.
i voted for the compromise version of the doyle report because important amendments were incorporated into the legislation. i'm the one who introduced the amendment that would give district heating a free quota, exempting community heating from the climate tax. this is an important result, as district heating is used primarily by people with lower incomes, and is also more environmentally friendly than individual heating. i am also pleased that the heat and cooling produced by cogeneration plants are also given free quota. that's another green thinking. many activities are exempted from paying the climate tax that should not be exempted. i would have preferred a greener law on my part. but this compromise is better than nothing.
i voted in favour of the climate package, although it's hard to see a clear positive. there is no doubt that this legislation is progressive, that it fills a gap and that it makes the world a rarity. but the targets that have been set do not reflect what our scientists have set as goals to stop climate change, humanity's greatest challenge. europe's task is to build a model of a low-carbon economy and society, as europe has one of the greatest potential to create the technology needed to do so. but that requires money and legal coercion. however, this decision takes a significant part of the money out of the union in the form of cdms, and our legislation has too many exceptions, too many flexibilities and too little enforceability. in sum, we are moving in the right direction, aware of our responsibilities and the magnitude of our tasks, but not at the right pace, and so my vote was for the right direction, not the speed of progress.
the main problem with this legislation is that some central and eastern european countries have already significantly reduced their greenhouse gas emissions since the late 1980s. some western countries, however, have increased the same to a great extent even in the early 2000's. that's why we asked for a fair deal, a recognition of our past efforts. we got something, but you have to know that the eu's climate assessment would be much worse without the efforts of the new member states. it would therefore be important for the old member states to benefit from the quota trade. in particular, they should transfer part of their industry or buy quotas from less developed countries within the union. the compromise was agreed for climate protection and common european action. i also understand the concerns of environmentalists and i hope that we can tighten up the legislation later.
i am very disappointed that we were unable to accept the council's position at second reading. we need to be competitive. there is no slave labor here, even if someone does, they can only work 60-65 hours a week at most. instead, we have taken a course of total inflexibility, with immediate compensation time, which makes it completely impossible for employers to have a position on seasonal work, for example. and i just want to point out to my colleagues that the very well protected worker who is unemployed is far better off than the person who is hired by the employers and entrusted with the conditions on which he accepts employment. so i'm very desperate about the opt-out. as for the time limit, i voted for amendment no 9 because it seemed that we were going to reconciliation, and because it could be regulated at national level by the amendment.
i welcome the commission's latest human rights report. the main reason is that the protection of minorities has also given attention to the roma, the largest transnational minority in europe. however, i find it interesting that, although there is an increase in racist and ethnic crimes and offenses against roma in western and central europe, the report focuses more on the balkans and south-eastern europe. not only in the countries that want to join, but also in our own home, there is work to be done! i also believe that there is still a lack of a transnational initiative to tackle the problems of transnational minorities together. the rights of a community of 10 million people, in my opinion, should have been included in the report, emphasising that it is not a homogeneous ethnicity. i also miss a study on the social effects of the economic crisis, because it is always the vulnerable who are at risk! however, i find the development of the disability issue in europe to be remarkable. the commission is already working on draft council decisions on the adoption of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its optional protocol of 8 august 2008. the convention represents a major change in content, as it treats disability not as a social, welfare, but as a human rights and legal issue. this will help 650 million people with disabilities worldwide, including 50 million europeans. i consider it important to promote,protect and guarantee the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by our fellow citizens with disabilities and to promote respect for their inalienable dignity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. it is a difficult task for the european parliament to take a comprehensive decision on the situation of fundamental rights in the union, since it is precisely fundamental rights that should be the least politically and partisan-driven, and much more based on independent facts and data, stripping away hypocrisy. it is therefore a serious message from parliament, from us, that we have created the fundamental rights agency in the period under review, which may have to do just that, and that will be its task in the years to come. at the same time, it is of course very important to know what message parliament is sending to the citizens of europe about their fundamental rights. is it addressing their problems, and is it really addressing the real problems that affect so many people? the diversity of the individual problematic and controversial issues is also indicated by the 240 amendments to the draft report. the original, highly controversial report has been forged into a more acceptable text, thanks to the rapporteur and his shadow rapporteurs. this does not mean that there would not still be a difference in principle between the political groups, as there are large differences in paragraphs reflecting sensitive, principled and emotional attitudes many of them in member states' competences. in the western half of europe, the concept of fundamental rights is almost always understood as the absence of discrimination, whether on the grounds of a large migrant minority, ethnicity or sexual orientation. however, in the new member states, we are still in a different place when it comes to enforcing our fundamental rights. we are still afraid of our fundamental freedoms in many cases, and when we talk about minorities, we are talking about millions of indigenous minorities whose fundamental rights are still being violated in the new member states. it's important that this report finally addresses these issues. however, the people's party does not consider acceptable a number of formulations which are still debated today and do not have a unified assessment. but remember: the protection of our fundamental rights may vary from person to person. the most important thing in their treatment is respect for each other - that's what's gonna help in this case.
