mr president, mr hu jia, an aids campaigner, a human rights activist and nominee of this parliament for the sakharov prize in 2007 was arrested in beijing on 27 december 2007 by the chinese authorities and charged with subversion. i am an admirer of the progress made in recent decades in china; however, the arrest of mr hu jia by the chinese sends out completely the wrong message, one that is very difficult for us to understand. are the chinese going to ignore the commitment they made to the international community when they promised to improve the human rights situation in china in return for the beijing olympics? we as a parliament need to respond very firmly to protect this man who is now incarcerated, most probably for cooperating with the european parliament when he gave testimony to the subcommittee on human rights in november 2007. we also need to lend support to those campaigners in china seeking his release. since diplomatic language alone would only be regarded as acquiescence in chinese culture, i believe we need a strong parliamentary resolution – hopefully this week – to protect mr hu jia. i urge you, mr president, to raise the case of mr hu jia with the chinese authorities: it is imperative they hear the views of this parliament.
mr president, i rise to raise what may seem, on the face of it, a rather mundane issue: the implementation of the european water framework directive of 2000 in ireland. the sad fact is that this directive is being implemented in ireland by the irish government by charging schools for water usage. because most schools in ireland are funded to a large extent by voluntary fundraising, this essentially means that parents must raise the money to pay for the water. that would be bad enough, but the irish government has decided to blame europe for this decision, when of course it is entirely a matter for the irish government as to what policy it implements in relation to implementing the water directive. the sensitivity of the issue arises because we are having a referendum in ireland to make a political decision, and a cowardly political tactic to blame europe for the government’s decision runs the risk of alienating all the parents in ireland against europe. this is, in my view, a serious matter and i would urge the president of parliament and the vice-president of the commission, who is here today, to make it clear to the irish government and to make a public statement to the effect that they are free to charge or not to charge schools for water and that they should not be taking risks with the future of europe with cowardly political tactics.
mr president, in some of our member states it is possible for people to walk in off the street and receive training in the use of guns, and indeed magnum guns, without any identification whatsoever, or without having a gun licence. i raise this here because there is evidence to suggest that organised criminals in ireland are coming to parts of the european union for such training and then returning to ireland and murdering people through gangland murders. often innocent bystanders are murdered as well. i raise this because, in november, parliament approved a new directive, and that directive is now with the council. i urge the council to approve this directive this month so that it will pass at first reading. secondly, i want to ask the commission not to wait until this is transposed into national law in 27 member states – that could take up to two years – but to start implementing some of the provisions, one of which is to set up a contact group of the 27 member states with the commission to start working to counteract the illegal use of weapons. i urge that this be done without further delay.
mr president, we have two million drug addicts in the european union. we have a drug epidemic, which has to be tackled head-on. fifteen years ago in ireland, drug addiction was confined to dublin. now it is in every city, town and village: heroin, cannabis, cocaine. people are dying every day in ireland and within the eu from drug addiction. i welcome the current eight-year eu drug strategy. but we have to ask ourselves realistically: is it working? we need to tackle the drug problem on all fronts. first of all, we need to cut off supply. secondly, we need to try and persuade users to stop using drugs and to try and persuade people never to start using them, by means of high-profile advertising campaigns to simply frighten people. last but by no means least, we need more and better international cooperation.
mr president, one of my colleagues has suggested that a mundane matter has been brought up in this house, and that is the implementation of the water framework directive in ireland. i think it is anything but mundane. if it is mundane, we need to have more debates on it, because the irish government has got itself into hot water by blaming europe for forcing it to charge schools for water, when in fact the issue is how it is underfunding schools and how badly it is communicating and implementing this important piece of legislation. what is at risk is the view the irish have of the european union, because we constantly blame europe for decisions that we are unhappy with, even though the government is party to the process of decision-making. at a time when we are facing a referendum on the reform treaty, not only are parents looking at the eu with a side glance and believing it is the problem, but farmers and other lobby groups are also certainly not happy with the european union at the moment. therefore, the irish government needs to explain fully how it is implementing this directive; it needs to fund the schools properly and it needs to answer the question of if and when domestic rates will be levied on irish people. that is what we need to know at this stage.
mr president, i think it is useful, from time to time, to remind the commission that ireland is an island and that we have a complete dependence on airports to be part of europe and part of the rest of the world. the important issue for me is regional airports and that they get full support. in many cases i keep hearing the argument that helping small airports will increase the carbon footprint but i do not think that is true. when all flights go out of dublin, it just means that all the people who live near cork airport, as i do, or shannon airport or waterford or kerry, have to drive to dublin or take a second flight – a shuttle to dublin – and then go on. whereas often these flights could reasonably, with support for regional airports, go from a regional area directly to where they need to go. my other point concerns disabled passengers. it was not long ago that, when you got the breakdown of charges for airports in ireland, it would have a wheelchair charge. many disabled persons contacted me and asked that this be removed because they felt that other passengers would feel that they were paying extra because of people in wheelchairs. it is very important that we realise that one out of every ten persons in europe will have a disability, possibly even more than that – up to 17% sometimes – and that there should not be specific charges.
mr president, i am very pleased at the outcome of the negotiations that have been ongoing for a number of months, and i am glad to see that a common-sense approach has been taken by parliament. the original european commission proposal that this directive would apply to all airports with passenger numbers greater than one million per annum was extremely worrying, particularly from an irish viewpoint, because, if this approach had been adopted, then the directive would have applied to both shannon and cork airports, and possibly, in due course, to ireland west airport as it seeks to continue its expansion operations. what i have been arguing is that airports under the five million passenger per annum threshold are subject to much stronger market forces than larger airports, and to subject them to the terms of this directive would put an unnecessary stranglehold on regional airports. given the position adopted by parliament today, we can now expect larger airports to be more transparent with their pricing policies and financing of infrastructural developments. we will also see a strong independent regulation in all member states to ensure that airports and airport users do not abuse their dominant market power. i am particularly glad that, while appeals are being dealt with that airport users cannot delay plans adopted by the airport, i myself think that the six-month notice of price changes, while biased against the airline, will ensure adequate time for agreement and negotiation, if necessary, by both parties. the fact that the airport user cannot delay airport plans will allow airports to begin infrastructure plans without delay and thus save them – and ultimately air passengers – money, as they will most likely be the beneficiaries of added cost projections. i would like to thank my colleagues in parliament who supported my amendments to the original proposal, and who supported my view during the negotiations, which will mean that regional airports – the smaller airports – will continue to be free, at least for the foreseeable future, from more red tape and costs of bureaucracy. again i join with everybody: congratulations to mr stockmann, the rapporteur, on a job well done.
mr president, in the interests of not repeating anything that has been said, i fully support the need for more transparency in airport charges. as charges at airports are not part of the operational costs of airlines but are part of the operational, development and maintenance costs of airports, i would like to know the commission’s view on the compulsory need for airlines to refund airport charges if a passenger has to cancel a flight. at the very least they should get full credit, if not an actual refund of any airport charges on a cancelled flight. i do not think it is acceptable for airlines to pocket airport charges if flights are cancelled. some of them are doing that at the moment, others will refund after taking a hefty administration charge out of it, which makes it unworthy to pursue the actual refund itself. that is a small point but a very irritating point for passengers in the eu, and i think we should say something now and tie that in to what we are talking about here.
madam president, as we are new to this procedure – and, having looked around, everybody else present has spoken – does that mean i can have five minutes myself? i assume i can have at least two, which was the time taken off our side to allow the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure. it is a matter we need to clarify. i stand to support colleagues on this important regulation, which is on its second trip through the committees and these houses, because of a court of justice ruling 12 months ago that it should have been a dual legal base originally. the main point i want to speak on under the ‘catch-the-eye’ procedure is my general concern about legal bases and the trouble we have been running into here, not just with this piece of legislation but also with others. a lot of time is spent, at committee level as well as plenary, in debating amendments in relation to single versus dual legal bases and different views. i think it is time that this parliament took stock of exactly the procedures we arrive at – different legal bases – because, often, dual legal bases are proposed to us or are proposed at council coming back to us before a common position is reached for what i would call sloppy legislating reasons, because the larger the eu gets – 27 member states now and growing, and i welcome that – the harder it is to be tidy in our legislation. we really must look at what we are doing in this area. so it is interesting that the reverse is true here. in fact, the court of justice has said that we need a dual legal base in this particular area rather than the single legal base, which normally makes life much easier – if we can keep to a single legal base – because very often dual legal bases have been lawyers’ charters. i wonder whether the commissioner could indicate what exactly the challenge to the court of justice was in relation to the single legal base, who took it, and if he could give us more information on why the court of justice itself determined, if you like, on a dual legal base. they have given us time to go through the procedure again and have maintained the effects of the regulation until we readopt it, as it were, and i very much welcome the fact that it looks like we are going to have a first reading agreement because of all the cooperation all round. the commissioner’s views on that and on the whole saga of the legal base that has us here a second time would be very welcome.
madam president, if we are going to reduce workplace accidents, we need to know how they happen. we cannot study all accidents and all near misses but, let me tell you, a 19-year-old irish lad died on a construction site because his lighter japanese bulldozer had heavy european shovels. his death was registered as a construction death and the irish health and safety authority never looked any further. so how can we save the next person that drives a tractor with mismatched equipment? because we do not know. we cannot investigate everything, but we can look at all fatal and debilitating accidents, especially those in the most dangerous sectors like agriculture, fishing, construction and transport. we need to break it down to make practical measures. also, aside from risk jobs, we have very vulnerable sections of the workforce – elderly, disabled and workers who do not speak the language of their present workplace.
on behalf of the uen group. – i support the need to update eu legislation in this area. the last time we had a directive on this was in 1987, and certainly the consumer credit market has changed dramatically since then. this eu directive on consumer credit loans seeks to introduce a greater level of competition into the eur 800 billion consumer credit market. it will bring legal certainty to consumers, which is absolutely vital if people are to shop around and look for the best product which suits their needs. it will also help business to compete. when you look at the differences in consumer credit rates around europe – from 6% in some countries up to 12% in others – it surely is time that the consumer got a better choice. these new rules will make the market more transparent for consumers and business competitors alike. the main effect of this directive will be to provide comparable and standard information to consumers across the eu who take out loans. for credit offers, the information given to consumers, whether it is interest rates, numbers and frequency of payments, must be set out in a new eu-wide european credit information form. so i very much welcome this. i think that it is vital for consumers that they have confidence and that there is legal certainty in this area, but i believe that this will bring greater competition in this area and will, at the end of the day – as has already been pointed out – give more choice to consumers, and that the consumers will benefit greatly from this directive.
in writing. – an eu directive on consumer credit has been talked about for some time, so today’s debate on the directive is to be welcomed. there is great hope that the directive will lead to consumers looking beyond their own national boundaries for loans – allowing them to shop around for the cheapest loan available. it should, when implemented and taken up by eu citizens, lead to people availing of cheaper credit. but this is the key to its success: firstly knowledge among eu citizens of the possibility of availing of loans across borders, and secondly a willingness of citizens to take up this option. at present, it is clear that there is a reluctance among citizens to shop around within their own member state for best value in loans, just as there is still some resistance among consumers to change banking institutions, though that may be changing slowly. the success or otherwise of this directive depends on its effective implementation by member states. only time will tell if it lives up to our expectations and provides greater choice to consumers, greater availability of consumer loans and most importantly lower costs on such loans.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i have many things to say about the rights of the child. firstly, i welcome the amendments to this report that focus on the family and their importance in providing for a child’s development. i would like to stress the primacy of parents – not the state – as the guardian of children and, for this reason, the importance of support for the family in their responsibilities. the state should assist the parents in protecting and promoting the child, and it should only take over from the parents when the parents are unwilling or unable to serve their children. on the issue of disability, i praise this report for acknowledging that children with disabilities should be assured full respect and granted equal treatment. i myself have represented many children and their parents who struggled to guarantee education for them. a tragic flaw in the un convention on the rights of the child on which this is based is that, although it guarantees primary education for all children, it makes specific educational provision needed by disabled children ‘subject to resources’. these three words have militated against children with special needs getting the help they need in my country. amendment 3 deals with children within the eu who have previously been in institutionalised care. this important issue has come to the attention of many meps following the bbc documentary bulgaria’s abandoned children, which focused on care homes for children with disabilities. there will be a screening of this documentary with the participation of the film-maker on 4 march 2008, to which i invite all my colleagues. recently the eu voted against an amendment placed before the committee on budgets that sought to divert eu funding that goes into institutions towards community- and family-based services. this amendment failed. we must be coherent in our approach to de-institutionalisation and integrate children into society, and we must put our funding into community-based approaches in the future. i also welcome the strong line parliament takes on trafficking, especially with amendment 1. it is hard to imagine anything worse happening to a child than being stolen from their family, whether for military, sexual or labour purposes, or even to fulfil the desire of a couple for a child. i also want to mention the trafficking of babies before and after birth for organ and cell harvesting and remind my colleagues that the preamble of the un convention on the rights of the child includes children before birth as well as after. i am pleased that the report takes into account migrant families and unaccompanied minors. with increasing cultural blends, we must continue to acknowledge the importance of embracing all children in our ever-changing society. as much as it is wonderful that labour migration enables parents to go abroad and earn more and provide better for their families, we need to be working towards an equity that will not necessitate this separation and will allow families to stay together in their home country or their country of choosing. now i should like to address the issue of sexual and reproductive rights, which is repeated in six articles of this report. i am personally responsible for six teenage girls and two teenage boys. of course they need to know the facts of life but, at the same time, they need to know the most important fact of life: that they are extremely valuable, developing individuals, persons with a dignity and a future, with a unique contribution to make to their community and family. they do not benefit from the message that is so often given in the name of sexual and reproductive rights that they cannot be responsible and are, in fact, walking disasters who need adult help with damage control, and that they can get this help without any negative effects to themselves or without the knowledge of their parents. the richness of adolescence can and should receive the support of those who are older, who love them and who have already been there. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i agree with virtually all the recommendations made in this excellent report. in particular, i agree that the future eu strategy should recognise the important role of the family as the basic institution in society for the survival, protection and development of the child. i also support the right of the child to maintain, on a regular basis, a personal relationship and direct contact with his or her parents unless, of course, that is contrary to the child’s best interests. i fully endorse the suggestions in this report to establish a child-friendly society, in which children can feel protected and actively involved. paragraph 27 urges the commission and member states to take action to ensure observance of the rights of mentally-disabled children to access education. in an irish context they have a right to an appropriate primary education, but this is subject to resources. in reality this often means they receive an inappropriate primary education. paragraph 27 also states that mentally-disabled children should have access to the courts. there was recently a case in ireland of a young girl with downs syndrome who had been sexually assaulted, and yet a judge decided she was not competent to tell the truth to the jury. he tested her in court with the assistance of the prosecution lawyers. during this test, the accused and his lawyers were present, but the girl’s family was ordered to leave the court. unless all children can be assured of the absolute right to access the courts we will be failing our children. finally, i should like to put a short question to the commissioner. the recent decision to incorporate children’s rights into the lisbon treaty as one of the objectives of the eu will provide a new legal basis for children’s rights. can the commissioner elaborate – even briefly – on the practical outcomes he expects from this? i put this question particularly in the light of the forthcoming referendum in ireland on the lisbon treaty.
mr president, i welcome this report and the work the rapporteur has done on it. from listening to the debate, there is almost total agreement on what we need to do when it comes to children’s rights, and we have come a long way from the old adage that ‘children should be seen and not heard’. today we not only want to see our children but also to hear and listen to what they have to say. however, we need some clarification – and perhaps the commissioner could do that for me – in relation to what competence the eu has in this area of children’s rights in the light of the treaty that has been spoken of and our vote in ireland on that reform treaty. as you know, under the irish constitution, the rights of children are seen as best protected in the context of the family. we need to acknowledge the important role the family plays in protecting children’s rights and we need to look at measures aimed at strengthening families and supporting them where that is necessary. there is also the question of the marital versus non-marital family and whether there are equal rights for children in both of these situations. there is a significant increase in the separated and divorced population in ireland and an increase in cohabitation of couples: one in twelve families takes this form, with responsibility for 50 000 children. we need to look at how the rights of those children are being protected under irish law as it currently exists. there is also an issue about the access of children to both of their parents and the invisibility of children currently under the irish family law system, and that has to be addressed. one last point: there was uproar in 2006 when the irish supreme court struck down the law on statutory rape on the basis that it did not allow an accused individual to enter the defence of honest mistake over a victim’s age. the case involved a 41-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl. today, ironically in the dublin district court, sex assault charges against this individual were dropped. we are to have two constitutional amendments in ireland on the issue of the family and the case i just mentioned, and i think we need to see where the eu fits into children’s rights so that we vote in ireland in the right way.
madam president, could you offer the house a little guidance, in view of the time, so that those of us who have tabled questions know exactly what the procedure will be? will you be dividing the items up equally into three parts, or into two half-hour parts? i ask because those of us involved in a potential third part need to know what is likely to happen, given the time at which we are starting.
thank you, commissioner, for your response, which is clear but alarming, because obviously there are problems about safety. i would like you to outline the timeframe which will apply to your response, because i think people are not generally aware how at risk they might be from counterfeit medicines. and could i ask you – in writing, perhaps – to address an issue which is of concern in ireland in relation to vaccines which were legitimate vaccines but which damaged children and for which people are still waiting for some form of compensation after 40 years? perhaps you could write to me stating how other member states are handling that contentious issue.
i would like to connect the first question by ms mcguinness on protecting consumers from counterfeit and sub-standard medicines with the question by mr moraes on protecting consumers against spam. one of the huge problems i, like most others, have is the amount of medicines advertised in spam, along with all sorts of products that enhance all sorts of bits of the body which some of us do not even possess! i wonder, with reference to the parallel market study you referred to, if there are any studies under way on the whole issue of the internet, spam and counterfeit medicines, and in particular on sub-standard medicines that offer no guarantee of safety or efficacy for consumers and patients everywhere. there is horrific growth in that particular area.
thank you, commissioner, for your detailed response. in relation to ireland, one item purchased there over the christmas period actually exploded, and the name of the manufacturer was not identifiable. is it possible to have legislation introduced in all countries to make it illegal to sell an item on which the manufacturer is not clearly identifiable? i think that is the way forward, and i would ask if that could be done.
it is interesting that when food prices are rising, the commission will act to look at it and i would urge the commission to come up with statistics that show us the share-out of the final retail price between producer – and i mean farmers – and consumer, because that information is not available. i think that it is also fair to say, on the record, that the era of relatively low food prices is over and that i think that the commission should not fool people by saying that we are going to go back to lower food prices. perhaps what we need to do is to educate people about buying quality food at a fair price.
commissioner, i want to ask you a little bit more about financial education, which is the new buzzword. i think you will agree that there is a real imbalance in power between financial institutions and consumers, not least because, firstly, consumers need access to credit, and, secondly, regardless of the level of financial education, how many people are going to read the 25-page document that accompanies, for example, their insurance policy, and refer to it every year? you said that this issue needs to be addressed at local and regional level, but would you not agree there needs to be greater cooperation between the major stakeholders, such as financial regulators, governments, consumer organisations and financial complaints bodies so that, working together, they can highlight some of the problems and issues, and at least act as an early warning system for the consumer?
madam president, could i suggest to the commissioner that, not only does the information satisfy lawyers, but it bamboozles consumers? and that is why it is there. like a lot of information, it is like the instructions for the washing machine. we read it when it breaks down and it is too late. could i suggest you look at the role of credit unions in educating consumers, because i think that is an issue in ireland in particular? and, can i gently remind you, as you mentioned redress, of the absolute lack of redress for equitable life policyholders. i am sure that ms wallis will support me on this and perhaps in a quiet moment you might come back to us with a written response as to what has happened since our report was voted on and supported by you.
the response from the irish government was lodged on 28 september 2007. i understand that the response has not been made public. this is a very important issue which affects 22 local authorities in ireland. i am just wondering if the response can be released at this stage now that it is before the commission and it has had time to consider it? maybe the commissioner might outline the timescale when a decision will be made by the commission on this matter.
i should just like to ask the commissioner – with regard to the rule of subsidiarity, and in particular the issue of planning permission – is this an area that the commission should be involved in, when the operation of planning and the right to build a property is separate from the right to own property and exploit that property?
madam president, may i thank the commissioner for taking the question. could i ask him if he has any indication of the timescale involved in obtaining a reply from the irish government in relation to the vhi in particular? could i ask him whether this will have any implications for equalisation? the vhi continues to dominate 75% of the market in ireland, but they claim that they need risk equalisation to protect them from being left holding all the older, and therefore higher-liability, clients. will the issue raised by the commissioner have any implications for equalisation?
i think last july we all applauded the degutis report when at last we said we were going to have transparency in relation to charging, that all taxes and fees levied would be upfront in all advertisements. and then we read, in the european voice on 31 october: ‘air ticket sites faced eu shame: commission threatens to reveal the names of the hundreds of websites which allegedly mislead consumers’. i am at a loss to know why these big commercial operations are not named, why they are not shamed. they continue to flout the rules and regulations and the undertaking. they continue to mislead the consumer. last week, for example, ryanair – give them credit for what they have done – published this in all irish newspapers: ‘buy one flight, get a second absolutely free. pay no fees, taxes, levies or charges’. so i booked my flight, and it cost me eur 153. and then the one that was supposed to be free is as follows: credit card fee: eur 12; taxes, fees and charges: eur 39.96; insurance: eur 14. total price: free flight eur 67. what more evidence do you want?
madam president, i apologise to you, and to the interpreters for delaying them further. i just wish to place on the record my objection to the way that question time again has been messed around. those of us who use it as a political tool to try and get answers from the institutions are left without any words as regards how badly we are treated as members of this house. i will be raising this matter at the conference of presidents, but i hope that the bureau will take it on board as well and try and make sure the working of the chamber on a day-to-day basis does not encroach every single time on our question time.
mr president, if the commissioner were to ask people where they learn, they would tell him where they went to school. but most of the learning we do is outside this experience of formal education. the challenge in lifelong learning is not only to offer opportunities to adults to gain new and more qualifications, but also to find a way to recognise and capitalise on the very valuable learning many adults have gained informally through life and work experience. a constituent of mine has pioneered the successful handling of some of the most difficult fish varieties and also the environmentally friendly fish-farming techniques that they require. he has no college degree, so when the commission gives grants in this field, they do not go to him. instead, the grants go to academics with no experience, who then come to him to find out how he does what he does. he is tired of this rip-off, and the fishing industry will be the poorer for this. i urge the commissioner to look at this as there has to be a better way.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the compromise amendments agreed by the vast majority of the political groups, which are intended to promote joint responsibility between parties with regard to international trade in hazardous chemicals. rules adopted at eu level are vital for the provision of a high level of protection of the environment and public health, and we aspire to these rules being extended internationally. awareness of risks is paramount for exporters and importers. countries, by virtue of exchange of information and best practice and compulsory national decision-making on the acceptability of chemicals, can heighten such awareness while also making legislators and stakeholders aware of such risks. the proposed legislation implements the rotterdam convention, the underlying principle being to help participating countries learn more about the characteristics of potentially hazardous chemicals and pesticides. this provides countries with the information and the means to stop unwanted imports of toxic chemicals, putting the requirement and onus on the exporter/exporting country to comply with the laws of the importing country. i very much welcome and support this legislation and the european parliament’s compromise package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the kauppi report because there is a need for continued detailed debate on the various contentious issues that arise in this report. it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime. however particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a ccctb could have on small countries such as ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on its capacity to attract foreign investment.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá rialtas na slóivéine ag glacadh le cúram uachtaránacht an aontais eorpaigh in am seo an iliomad dúshlán. tá tíortha na heorpa ag tabhairt aghaidh ar dhaingniú an chonartha, tá ceantar na mbalcán faoi spotsholas, is gá teacht ar shocrú faoi phacáiste fuinnimh ar leibhéal an aontais agus tá spreagadh nua ann réiteach a fháil ar an gcoimhlint idir an phalaistín agus iosrael. as has rightly been commented on by colleagues already, the list of what europe needs to be doing is endless. the range of topics and decisions and the areas of interest and of conflict that have to be dealt with are enormous. rather than give lectures to you on what you fail to do or on what others may fail to do in the future, i shall focus briefly on three areas. firstly, the reform treaty, the lisbon treaty: its ratification is essential for the onward development of the european union. secondly, with regard to future enlargements: we must ensure that candidate countries feel they have an opportunity and a chance to become members of the european union in the near future. thirdly and, in my opinion, most importantly, kosovo and what is happening there, and a peaceful transition from its present status to whatever future status may emerge. we have already seen tremendous success in kosovo where joint police forces from both ethnic groups are patrolling jointly in each other’s areas, where there is no longer that idea of a single police force for a single people, but a joint police force for all the people of kosovo. your experience, mr prime minister, as a rebel in one sense, as an intellectual but, most importantly of all, as a democrat and as the voice of reason that could lead your country from the dark ages of communism into the bright lights – sometimes dimmed because of energy crises – and future of the european union, that kind of image and that kind of imagery is what is most important to the people of bosnia, serbia, kosovo and, indeed, turkey. i look forward to working with you and with your government. despite the fact that you may be small as a country, not only are you big in spirit but there is also great quality there. as has already been proven by your own starting of this process, you are not afraid to stand up to the ‘big boys’ when they try to bully you around the place. but, most importantly of all, what you bring is the moral certainty of where you have come from. what the european union needs today is new heroes – heroes who know what it is like not to have freedom; heroes who know what it is like not to have the freedom of speech, liberty and democracy. that is the best light that we can shine in the dark corners of the european continent today.
mr president, i too would like to wish the slovenian presidency well. today is indeed a historic day. i do not doubt for a moment slovenia’s capacity as a small member state to preside over a successful presidency. i hope, president-in-office, that you are really serious when you say that you wish to see a europe that really cares and a europe that puts the citizen at the centre. i have to say to you that, if we were serious about making that more than rhetoric – making that reality – it would in fact require a radical step change in our approach and in the content of our policy in this institution and across the institutions of the european union. i share the concerns of a previous speaker at the fact that referendums will not be held in member states on the issue of the lisbon treaty. i come from a jurisdiction in which there will be a referendum and the people will have an opportunity to assess, in a real-life way, how they reckon this project is advancing and developing. president-in-office, in ireland you caused something of a stir: you were reported in the media as saying that it is important not to launch some discussions that might cause problems in our country. this indicates to us that you propose postponing controversial or difficult issues. we would like to know what those issues are. if we are serious about democracy in the union, if we are serious about a union that cares, we certainly have to ensure that full information on policy initiatives and direction are given to the people.
mr president, i join my colleagues in welcoming the prime minister here today. president-in-office, what a journey in 20 years: from languishing in jail to prime minister of the republic of slovenia, to president-in-office of the european council, and now a member, as you tell us, of the eu, nato, the euro zone and the schengen area. it is true that the current balkan situation represents unfinished business; peace in the region is very important to all of us. thank you particularly for your sensitive handling of the forthcoming irish referendum needed for the ratification of the lisbon treaty. perhaps i could add to our referendum slogan your words in your concluding remarks when you said: ‘i care about europe because europe cares about me’. what better slogan for the irish referendum! we can take nothing for granted – it will be hard to deliver – but, believe you me, the fine gael party, of which i am a member, our leader and all the members of the european parliament will leave no stone unturned to ensure a ‘yes’ outcome to the referendum of the lisbon treaty in ireland. thank you, and we look forward to delivering it to you during your presidency.
madam president, here is a practical suggestion. one of the expenses is that we translate votes, but these are only numbers, so we need only one edition of the votes. we do not need to put them into every language because we are dealing with numbers, and the names are the same in every language. so we can cut expense there. i think of all the bits of paper we produce in this parliament. the most important thing for the citizen is to know how we vote. (applause)
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe it makes a good contribution to the fight against all forms of violence and abuse against children, including poverty, discrimination and access to education. i particularly welcome ep advocacy of a mechanism whereby suppliers of products manufactured with child labour can be prosecuted in europe. i too urge the commission to urgently bring forward mechanisms that make the main contractor in a supply-chain liable for violations of un conventions on child labour. however, i deplore the attempts to remove references in the report to adolescents' right to sexual and reproductive health and family planning education and services.
in writing. − while i voted yes on this, i want to clarify my position on paragraph two of the report. this states that the igc decision of 19th october 2007 incorporating children's rights as one of the objectives of the eu in the treaty of lisbon provides a new legal basis for children's rights. according to commissioner fratini’s response to my question on this during the plenary debate, lisbon does not bring in a specific legal base and it is important to clarify this. regarding paragraph 127 i am not supporting this as i do not support a ban on headscarves and hijabs.
in writing. − i was pleased that the committee and the ensuing report took on board a strong focus on family and recognised the family’s position in relation to children. i also welcome the strong defence of children in relation to trafficking, institutionalisation, pornography and disability. however the report ties eu policy into the un international convention on the rights of the child which changes competence for children from parents to the state. although not explicitly referred to it is a seismic shift of great concern. despite the positive elements of this report, like those mentioned above, the report was regrettably used to promote the sexual and reproductive rights agenda (which for the un convention includes abortion) which was particularly incongruous because we are dealing with children and the protection of children. though i very strongly support all protections for children i found myself unable to support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the scale of current economic and social change, the rapid transition to a knowledge-based society and demographic changes resulting from the ageing population in europe are all challenges which demand a new approach to education and training, within the framework of lifelong learning.
mr president, as someone who has visited kenya previously and in particular the slum areas in nairobi, i am familiar with the corruption that was in place even prior to this election. i condemn the tragic loss of up to 600 lives, and the critical humanitarian situation which has ensued after the 27 december elections in kenya. i call on the relevant authorities and stakeholders to do their utmost to bring peace to kenya and ensure that human rights and the rule of law are respected. it is most unfortunate that kenya, being one of the most stable and economically-developed nations in east africa, has now descended into such chaos, as this will most likely have detrimental knock-on effects on its neighbouring countries. the eu election observation mission concluded that the lack of transparency and adequate security procedures severely undermined the credibility of the presidential election results. today, mr odinga’s opposition party has called once again for nationwide protests regarding the outcome of last month’s presidential election. these opposition rallies are due to last for three days, despite a government ban. such protests could lead to further bloodshed. many of the killings seem to have been based purely on ethnic differences, the most horrendous of which was the brutal attack on a church near the town of eldoret, which is thought to have left more than 30 ethnic kikuyu dead. i urge mr kibaki to respect his country’s democratic commitments as enshrined in kenya’s national constitution and the guidelines of the african charter of human and people’s rights. i call on the presidency of the eu and the european commission to monitor closely the mediation mission that will be led by mr annan later this week and, if required, to ensure an immediate continuation of these mediation efforts by a high-level eu delegation, possibly a joint eu-au initiative.
mr president, i think it is generally accepted that the recent presidential elections in kenya were flawed. i think that is a great pity because kenya is a country that has been politically stable for many decades. sadly that has changed in the last two weeks and we have seen over 600 people killed and 250 000 people have been displaced. unfortunately, again, that violence is ethnic in nature. the question now is, what can the international community and ourselves do to bring political stability back to kenya before the situation deteriorates further? constructive political dialogue between both sides must be a key priority, and i would agree with other speakers that yesterday was a positive day in the kenyan parliament. without political engagement, however, there will be no agreement, and the european union is urging its political talks. i am delighted to see that kofi annan and the presidents of tanzania and uganda will be there shortly to try and broker some sort of deal. many of the people who have been displaced have gone into uganda, which means there have already been effects on the regions surrounding kenya. with regard to aid and the european union increasing its level of financial support for humanitarian programmes in kenya, i would be interested to hear commissioner michel’s answer on how exactly that money will be spent and to make sure it has been spent correctly, as raised by previous speakers. i think we all should remember – and particularly the kenyan people and the politicians should remember – that history has shown, time and time again, that, where there is a political vacuum, that vacuum can often be filled by extremists, but the people of kenya deserve better.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar an gcéad dul síos comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis an rapóirtéir, an tuasal díaz de mera garcía consuegra, as a thuarascáil. mar atá a fhios againn, tá muid inár gcónaí in aontas ina bhfuil saorchead taistil ag saoránaigh an aontais, agus mar sin tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh ról níos lárnaí, comhordaithe ag an aontas eorpach i réimsí ceartais agus gnóthaí baile an aontais. tá claonadh idirnáisiúnta sa choiriúlacht eagraithe, agus mar sin tá dualgas ar an aontas, le cabhair ó europol, ról láidir a ghlacadh le dul i ngleic le hiompórtáil drugaí mídhleathacha ó thíortha ón taobh amuigh den aontas. caithfidh europol iarracht a dhéanamh stop a chur leis an ngáinneáil mhídhleathach atá á dhéanamh ar iompar daoine isteach san aontas eorpach, go minic in aghaidh a dtola agus go minic sa tionscal gnéis, mar shampla. reáchtálfaidh éire reifreann ar chonradh an heorpa go luath agus ba mhaith liom a chur ar an taifead go mbeidh muid go huile agus go hiomlán páirteach i gcúrsaí ceartais agus gnóthaí baile san eoraip amach anseo – mar a bhí go dtí seo. agus ní úsáideann muid an rogha diúltaithe atá againn ar na gnóthaí sin ach amháin nuair a chruthaíonn sé fadhb i reachtaíocht dhlíthiúil ag baile.
the chairman of the council. - for a very short time. there were some questions related to the investigation, some calls for an independent or international investigation and some questions to the council for an opinion. i would point out that the council has not discussed this issue, so we cannot speak about the council's position, but i can of course express the firm hope, the firm hope of the presidency, that the investigation will be conducted in accordance with international standards. and in this regard, we are pleased that at least one member state, the united kingdom, is already cooperating by providing relevant expertise to the pakistani competent authorities. with regard to the elections, i would like to recall the presidency statement of 3 january this year, in which it was particularly stressed the need to do everything possible at this time to maintain and strengthen and continue the process of democratisation, democracy, the democratic process in pakistan. in this context, i would like to welcome once again the decision of the european commission to strengthen the election observation mission in pakistan and reiterate our call on the pakistani authorities to make the best use of the remaining period until the elections to improve the conditions for the conduct of the elections.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me begin by making some general remarks following this very interesting debate. i know that some will always argue that stability and democracy are somehow incompatible in pakistan. let me say i think that, without a return to democratic governance and the consolidation of fully accountable civilian institutions, there cannot be enduring stability in the country and the extremists will be the main beneficiaries. for that reason, it is very important that we are there, that we accompany this country to more progress. even though there was this terrible tragic death of benazir bhutto and of many other victims, i continue to believe that pakistan has a chance to make real progress towards stability and a more inclusive form of democracy by electing a new government which enjoys broader popular legitimacy. for this to happen, the elections will have to be democratic and transparent. this is a crucial time for pakistan when president musharraf should demonstrate to his country and to the world that he is committed to ensuring that these elections will be held democratically and transparently, in accordance with international standards. what are the best conditions for carrying out elections? other than political and security conditions, as i have already outlined in my opening remarks, the following key elements need to be there for a proper election environment. firstly, the election administration to operate in a transparent and consultative manner to promote confidence among voters; secondly, that all polling station results and all levels of result consolidation are publicly displayed; thirdly, the counting and tabulation process needs to be fully open to scrutiny; fourthly, media freedom and, fifthly, an independent framework for a complaints and appeals procedure. concerning the public publishing of polling stations, it is well known that they will be the same polling stations as the last elections. so that is clear. concerning the question that some voting lists have been destroyed, we know that there were some individual cases, but, fortunately, they were all stored on cds with the electoral commission and the destroyed ones will be restored. therefore, they will be available. concerning independent exit polls, this is not an essential element for the elections. however, it is increasingly the practice in many countries that this should also be there. these are some of the detailed matters: let me now turn to the investigations. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, an investigation is under way in the country, which is being assisted by scotland yard. we should await the outcome of that investigation and we should also trust that, with its experience, scotland yard will be able to help the pakistani authorities. of course, it will be necessary to give them full access and support in doing that job. after the elections, there might be a role then for an international group of eminent persons, but first we have to see what the inquiry will bring. i think it is too early to take a decision now. there was only a brief discussion in the council working group, which was not conclusive. having said that, let me also say that it is highly important to help pakistan in its fight against terrorism, and all the other requests mentioned in the debate, such as the release of all detainees, will be crucial. i also stated very clearly that for a country like pakistan it is important that there is a better focus on education. we have been doing that for some time, and it will take time – we are there for the long haul. but if we want democracy, this is something where we really have to make a difference and, therefore, i would like to maintain my cooperation projects, particularly in the most difficult areas, i.e. the north-west frontier province, baluchistan, waziristan and so on. i would again like to say that with mr gahler, your colleague, the chief election observer, i think we have a person who has already shown in those very difficult days in pakistan how responsibly he has been taking on these things, with 52 long-term observers and with 11 people of a core team who are looking at all the detailed questions of the election observation mission. it will be a very specific one and it will be a good opportunity for you to tell president musharraf yourself what you think. therefore, it is good that you see him in the committee on foreign affairs.
the chairman of the council. - with your help, we'll be able to do it. as regards the answer to the question of the honourable member, i would first like to refer to the council's latest initiative related to her question, namely the resolution on voluntary youth work adopted by the council on 16 november 2007. the aim of this last initiative is to confirm and consolidate the relevance and validity of the common objectives on youth volunteering already set in 2004. in addition, this initiative emphasises the cross-sectoral and transversal nature of voluntary activities and the importance of encouraging businesses to support such activities among young people. the resolution endorsed in principle the guidelines for action to be taken by member states to strengthen the implementation of the common objectives in the field of youth volunteering. the resolution therefore calls on the member states to select, by september this year, from among the recommended lines of action those on which they intend to focus in particular and to define national strategies and concrete measures to implement these lines. the presidency is therefore convinced that the issue of youth volunteering will remain a political priority for both the council and parliament and we count on the member states to implement the planned activities within the given deadline, i.e. by september this year, in accordance with this resolution.
mr president, my thanks to the slovenian presidency for its answer. president-in-office, i too wish you well at the start of your presidency. i am pleased to see that you are following on from the portuguese presidency – and indeed into the french presidency – with your emphasis on volunteering, and in particular on youth volunteering. i hear what you say about member states responding by september, but in the mean time, throughout the next six months of your presidency, i believe you are looking at issues like youth inclusion and education to improve the employability of young people through volunteering, and looking at intercultural exchange. i just wanted to ask specifically if you have any plans at all to further inter-generational volunteering. older people have a lot more time on their hands – we are living longer – and the whole aspect of inter-generational volunteering offers many positive opportunities. do you have any initiatives on that?
the chairman of the council. - these exchanges are not carried out by the presidency, but are carried out through the family unit, so i do not have the details you ask for, but i can inquire and inform you later.
mr president, i would like to wish the slovenian presidency the best of luck at the start of their presidency and their first question time. concerning the question raised by my colleague, three things immediately arise with regard to family friendly policies. firstly, children and the rights of children too often are seen as separate from what should be family policy. secondly, the whole issue with regard to how we actually encourage – we all have the idea of balancing work and family life – greater participation within family life. thirdly, most importantly of all, those people that are forced out of their homes because of migration or being refugees and also the issue of family reunifications. are there any proposals coming from the slovenian presidency with regard to that?
the chairman of the council. − i repeat that the slovenian presidency, in the field of family policy, places particular emphasis on the employment of young people, especially young parents - this is part of the answer to the question. it will pay particular attention to opening up new possibilities for reconciling work and family life - reduced working hours, flexible forms of work, exercise of rights by fathers and the like. a special chapter is also devoted to the promotion of solidarity between generations. this is a particularly topical phrase, especially in an area where the older generation is already dominant, and europe, the greater part of europe, belongs to this area. of course, such incentives will only be effective if they are backed up by policies from different sectors that promote the positive aspects of social life. in short, there is a whole series of measures that we are planning in the various fields of action of the union, which are also important for promoting a family-friendly policy. it is difficult to give a complete overview of these activities now, but they can be found in several areas of work planned by the slovenian presidency. i have just mentioned some of these areas.
thank you for your reply. i am really pleased to hear that the slovenian presidency is particularly interested in putting forward family-friendly policies. you yourself mentioned demographic changes. of course, because of the fact that we are living longer, it will mean an increased need for carers. most carers tend to be family carers. you spoke about exchange of best practice. we have competence in the area of employment, for example. while most carers are unpaid, in that particular area, does the slovenian presidency have any initiatives to put forward on the issue of carers and, in that context, family-friendly policies?
i would just like to wish the slovenians well in their presidency over the next six months and to thank them for the reply. in relation to the decision which was taken in mid-september by the eu council to make an eu force available, i am a bit concerned that the timescale has been allowed to lapse. i am just wondering whether there is a lesson that we should learn from this: that, before we give a commitment, we have the operation ready to move, because of certain things that have occurred since. the second part of my question was in relation to humanitarian aid. we gave humanitarian aid to chad in 2007. are we going to increase that level of aid for 2008 now that we have a direct involvement in it over the next 12 months?
mr president, i would like to wish the slovenian presidency every success for its term over the next six months, and also to wish a safe and successful peace-keeping mission to the eu forces that are going to chad. i am very proud to say that this mission is being headed by a fellow irishman, lieutenant-general patrick nash, and i wish him well also. does the council agree that the eu peacekeeping missions must continue to cooperate fully with the united nations and that the deployment of eu peacekeeping forces should take place only when a united nations resolution supports such a mission?
i thank the president-in-office for the reply and wish him well in his presidency. the president-in-office will no doubt be aware that every citizen of an eu member state is also a citizen of the union. my expectation would be that, if an eu citizen was visiting some state where he or she could have his arm or leg amputated, then the union would see the horror in such a thing. does the union not also see the horror in somebody being treated in this way, potentially sentenced to 40 lashes and also perhaps a jail sentence? will the president-in-office take steps to try to ensure that eu citizens visiting these regions are aware of the sort of cultural change they are entering into, and will the presidency also try to ensure that the states we do business with expect us to expect of them better treatment for our citizens and for them not to be treated in this way?
thank you, president-in-office, and best wishes for a very successful presidency. it is the countdown to 2010 that concerns me. there is plenty of talk but no action in this area, and it is one of the great deceptions we have that we are actually going to show any change or any impact on the ground by 2010. i mean, i agree with synergies between different policies, but protection of biodiversity can help limit atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations because forests, peat lands and other man-made ecosystems and habitats store carbon. do you think that monitoring change needs the best data available? we need better information on the whole effects that climate change is having on europe’s biodiversity. if we make any progress towards 2010 we have to improve the indicators and measurements we use to know exactly how serious the situation is.
could i just ask the council to comment on the fact that the commission is now reviewing the targets for biofuels, because what we thought might be good for climate change is now having unintended consequences when it comes to global food security, and indeed biodiversity. is this not one of the difficulties for us human beings in tackling climate change: that we may get it wrong?
mr president, can i apologise on behalf of mr higgins, who is unwell this evening and cannot be here. i thank you for your short answer. i presume this will be linked with plans to redefine disadvantaged areas in member states as well. could i just suggest that, when you do have some information on some of the indicators, you might supply it to mr higgins.
in terms of more accurate measurements of a region’s performance, one must seriously question whether gdp is the right measurement of performance. has any consideration been given, or will you be giving consideration (as you have only been in office for a week), to measuring gdp versus gnp versus gni? the big difficulty at the moment is that we are not measuring like with like, so it is very hard to measure performance across different regions – and across different countries, it is not just across regions alone – because the bases or indicators are not standardised at the moment.
president-in-office, thank you for your diplomacy. i hope you will understand if i am not diplomatic, because i do not think you realise the extent of anger and upset, particularly in the uk and ireland, when this documentary was shown. i think – and i regret to say this – that if this was an animal welfare issue the council would have a position on it. we are talking about children who have no voice. i really believe that it makes the eu look bad in the eyes of member states and citizens of the european union that we are slow to act when it comes to cases like this. i think it would be wonderful and we would get a great reaction from our citizens if we were more swift to act, because this is an unforgivable story. the pictures spoke for themselves.
i have a question for the slovenian presidency. i know it supports the view that we need long-term peace and stability in south-east europe and the balkans as a priority, and indeed economic development goes hand-in-hand with it, but in terms of macedonia reaching the line to open negotiations on accession – the issue of the name apart (important though it is) – how does the slovenian presidency consider macedonia would rate in comparison with other countries in that immediate area in reaching the accession line? we want them all in, but some will be more prepared than others. how do you rate macedonia’s chances for priority accession?
mr president, in 1996 an underwear company closed its factory in my constituency. it left 160 unemployed – almost all women – of middle age, with little or no skills outside the factory. only 100 of these women managed ever to work again. the women who found work needed, after 30 years of service in this plant, to begin again at minimum wage, as they had not been given any continuous training and their previous experience went unrecognised. this factory moved to a less expensive area of the eu and has since moved to asia. companies will continue to relocate for cheaper labour forces, and we need to protect women – particularly in areas like textiles – by offering the opportunity to upskill and by giving continuous education. i also want to talk briefly about apprenticeships: in ireland only 5% of women are in apprenticeships. it is a double problem. are they encouraged to become plumbers and carpenters? is there not also the problem that, in most areas, apprenticeships have now disappeared? apprenticeships themselves were a very good way to pass on information and skills and be recognised for them, and with the loss of apprenticeships we are denying many people – both men and women – the ability to pass on skills and be recognised.
mr president, the proposal before us deals with a very important issue, one that continues to spark debate globally. the role of women in industry affects all facets of society and has wide-ranging implications for employment and welfare policy, family and child policy, not to mention economic policy. yes, equality legislation ensures women get maternity leave, but all the evidence shows that they expose themselves to promotional and financial discrimination, albeit subtly (to comply with the law) but nonetheless pervasively in an inflexible business culture. there was an outcry in ireland in recent weeks when a media accountant made this very point and he was roundly handbagged. there is no point denying the blindly obvious. perhaps this report before us should be subtitled, ‘motherhood and misogyny’, as an editorial in the sunday tribune at home screamed last week. we in the european parliament must endorse the proposal before us – with which i largely agree – because, on the one hand, industry needs women at all levels and, on the other hand, society needs children. we all – including employers and industrialists – must respect maternity and paternity leave as fundamental social values. while i still baulk at compulsory quotas for women’s participation, albeit in politics or business, my faith in a meritocracy is being sorely tested the older and, hopefully, the wiser i get. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. there might be one or two paragraphs that i have to think about, but i will be supporting her report, and i think it behoves all of us in the house to support a very good report on which an awful lot of work has been done.
in writing. − i support paragraph 33 because such proactive measures need to be taken - at least on an interim basis to ensure participation of women in the decision-making process at all levels. in addition to this i strongly support paragraph 20 as there is a real need for a full investigation into the impact that long working hours have on health, both physical and mental, as well as on family life. if we are to promote a work life balance and family friendly policies then we need such a study.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – madam president, every olympics draws our attention to the preservation of human dignity as stated in the olympic charter. the 2008 beijing olympics will specifically draw our attention to that preservation – or otherwise – in china. hopefully, this will bring pressure on the chinese government to rethink actions like the arrest of hu jia. it is an opportunity for the country to improve its poor record in this area. instead, the chinese government seems determined to sweep human rights abuses under the rug, by arresting activists and protestors. of concern is the purchase of western high-tech security equipment by the chinese authorities, obviously intended to step up security during the games. my concern is twofold. i fear that such security equipment will be used against the chinese people this summer, and that it will remain in misuse after the summer. we must either use the olympics to promote human rights in china, or boycott them, and one thing we cannot do is have a big celebration of china if human rights continue to be so flagrantly disregarded.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, táimid ag fanacht go fonnmhar leis an bpacáiste reachtaíochta seo le tamall. is féidir an fhís a chur i bhfeidhm anois. is féidir sprioc a leagan síos a laghdóidh an táirgíocht co2, agus a mhéadóidh an fuinneamh in-athnuaite. cinnte, beidh dúshlán i gceist do gach ballstát. ach, bíonn deis i gceist le dúshlán. tabharfaidh an reachtaíocht seo seasmhacht don mhargadh, go háirithe don mhargadh gnó agus eolaíochta, d’infheisteoirí agus do chur chun cinn fhuinneamh na gaoithe, fhuinneamh na gréine, fuinnimh hidrileictrigh agus bithbhreoslaí. cabhróidh sé seo ar fad leis an timpeallacht a chosaint ó athrú aeráide. maidir le bithbhreoslaí, maíonn parlaimint na heorpa nach drochréiteach é seo ar fhadhb an co2. b’fhéidir go bhfuil an sprioc 10% ró-ard. beidh orainn gné a chur sa reachtaíocht a dhéanfaidh athbhreithniú ar sholáthar bia nó ar ghanntanas bia. beidh ar gach ballstát a bheith solúbtha maidir le héagsúlacht gach ballstáit eile. caithfidh an reachtaíocht a bheith inmharthanach áfach. cuirim fáilte roimh mholtaí an choimisiúin maidir le bithfhuinneamh den dara glúin, ach ní mór a bheith ag díriú isteach ar bhithfhuinneamh den tríú glúin anois.
madam president, i welcome the announcement of this most important package and look forward to the legislative debate that will follow. i think it is timely to remind those, especially in my own country, who are rightly exercised about global warming, climate change and greenhouse gas emission increases and who have concerns, on the other hand, about ratifying the lisbon treaty – or the reform treaty, as we underline – that the environment and climate change are specifically included in the lisbon treaty as distinct from the past constitutional treaty: a most important point to underline. following bali, it is clear that europe, as a union of 27 member states, has the capacity and the ability to lead the world on this most critical of issues – climate change – with this package at its centre. bali produced a road map for global agreement by 2009, recognising the urgency for clear and transparent international agreements – i have borrowed president barroso’s words – to ensure at least a 50% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. and while remaining competitive is ever pressing, we cannot solve our numbers and targets by exporting jobs through relocation to regions which have no legislation to reduce greenhouse gases ... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, tá páirt lárnach ag seirbhís poist na héireann i saol mhuintir na tuaithe, go háirithe iad siúd atá ina gcónaí leo féin agus daoine atá i réigiúin iargúlta nach bhfuil comharsana thart timpeall orthu. mar sin cuirim fáilte roimh fhoráil na seirbhíse uilíche – rud atá ríthábhachtach dúinne in éirinn agus tá mé cinnte do gach ballstát eile. ba mhaith liom ar dtús comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis an rapóirtéir an tuasal ferber as ucht an prionsabal seo a choinneáil an-láidir. ba chóir gur chun tairbhe an chustaiméara a bheadh na cáipéisí seo atá á ndréachtadh againn, agus sa gcás seo cuirim fáilte roimh an tseirbhís nua airgeadais atá an post a chur ar fáil in éirinn. léiríonn sé gur féidir le comhlachtaí seirbhíse poist dul in oiriúint do riachtanais nua an mhargaidh agus leanacht leis an tseirbhís poist uilíoch atá á soláthar acu. ba mhaith liom freisin fáilte a chur roimh chinneadh chúirt bhreithiúnais na gcomhphobal eorpach le gairid go raibh de cheart ag an bpost conradh imdháileadh íocaíochtaí leasa shóisialaigh a choinneáil.
madam president, i believe the rapporteur has, in general – though not entirely – achieved a fair balance. the universal service provision will ensure consumers have full access to postal services and member states still have the flexibility to determine the most effective and efficient mechanism to guarantee the uso. the uso will also ensure that sufficient access points are established to take full account of the needs of users in rural areas and sparsely populated areas, and i know this will be welcome, particularly in my own country, ireland. initially, i have to say i had some reservations about the impact on postal workers, but member states still have the authority to regulate employment conditions and collective bargaining in the sector, where this does not lead to unfair competition. finally, i want to say that i support the amendment that there should be an obligation to supply free services for blind and partially-sighted persons. i disagree with commissioner orban – or is it commissioner mccreevy? – i do believe this will provide added value, because, in a fully liberalised market, free services for blind or partially-sighted persons will disappear, and it will be added value if we can guarantee to them that they will continue.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this debate. i congratulate the rapporteur for the work done. i think the public believe this is already happening because in many member states there is not a postal service of equal value between the regions. i am glad to see that there will be subsidiarity on this issue and the member states will decide the best way to implement the principle of a deregulated market. i need to support my intergroup chairman, richard howitt, on the issue of disability. unfortunately, the point was raised that rich blind people will benefit. sadly, there are too few rich blind people in europe and globally. i wish we could stand up and say that they were all rich and, indeed, famous, but it is not the case. i think we have to make a big stand on this, just to show that, while europe is about freedom of movement of capital and services, it is also concerned about those who have no voice and those who have no sight.
in writing. – yet again we have an ideologically driven proposal, this time on postal services. there has been no assessment of the social impact it will have, and no serious consultation with post office management, with employees or with consumers. there is no demand, no logic and no justification for the liberalisation of postal services. people do not want to be presented with an array of competing post offices marketing their products. they do not want to see their local post offices closed because the market offers insufficient profit for the private postal companies which will swamp the market, driving public operators like an post to the wall. people want a reliable postal service which will deliver their mail with the minimum of fuss and which will keep local post offices at the centre of the communities they serve. how can people take seriously the idea the eu is promoting a social europe when this proposal drives yet another nail in its coffin? it is time to call a halt to the ideologically driven forced march towards liberalisation and privatisation. people in ireland have the opportunity to stop this by voting no to the lisbon treaty.
madam president, having attended my fifth un climate change cop and mop, i returned from bali with a sense of achievement for the first time on this most important of global issues. one of the clearest messages from bali was the urgent need to find a mechanism to ensure avoided deforestation and degradation of our forests is part of any post-2012 international agreement. i would like us to be in a position to add another 20% to the ‘20/20/20 by 2020’ formula. if we had an agreed system of credits to reward or compensate native communities, thereby mitigating the present rate of deforestation, particularly of our tropical forests – notwithstanding the immense difficulty in mapping a baseline figure for existing forestation – we could reduce global carbon emissions by another 20%, so that ‘20/20/20/20 by 2020’ must be our goal. bali produced the roadmap for global agreement by cop15 in 2009 in copenhagen, very ably led by you for the eu, and i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on your personal contribution.
madam president, it is great to listen to a debate and then be able to respond and to hear from those who were in bali because we do not hear enough as to what happens out there. can i raise just one particular issue? it is fashionable to talk about climate change and, while the public have bought into it at the moment, i think we are at risk of switching them off. we need to be very careful that what we suggest and propose is doable and we have practical results to show for it. in relation to agriculture, raised by ms schierhuber in particular: in ireland, for example, 28% of our emissions come from agriculture. i believe that agriculture has contributed significantly already. we need, again, to be careful not to ask too much of agriculture and risk our food security. so this is not an easy problem to solve. the point was made about forests. i think we need to look at encouraging those continents with vast forests not to rip them out, just as we are trying to encourage our farmers not to plough permanent pasture because of such important carbon sinks. so let us do what we can on the global stage and let us all hope that people are buying into the european leadership on this, because without it we really do not have a chance of achieving our objectives.
mr president, with regard to the upcoming referendum in ireland on the reform treaty, i would like to put into context the importance of this from an economic point of view, because the reform treaty, if nothing else, is about making the european union more efficient in its decision-making capacity, which in itself will lead to greater economic success and greater growth. from an irish perspective, last year there was eur 2.6 billion worth of investment in irish industry and irish business; 9 000 new jobs were created; there were over eur 80 billion worth of exports; over 80% of all products manufactured in ireland were exported, mainly to the european union markets. average salaries in ireland are eur 44 000 per year, and over eur 3 billion are taken by the government in corporation tax. these issues – to ensure the continuing growth in economic terms, in employment terms, in economic growth and in wealth management – are what is so important. that is why we are all seeking a ‘yes’ vote for the referendum in ireland.
mr president, i want to draw attention to a recent report by the environmental protection agency on water quality in ireland. while we have invested significantly in upgrading waste water systems under the water framework directive, we still have to achieve certain objectives with regard to water quality. in this connection, i want to mention an issue which we have ignored and continue to ignore in ireland: the issue of putting substantial resources into upgrading and refurbishment of septic tanks in ireland, particularly in rural ireland. there is far too great a tendency to blame septic tanks for the threat of pollution to irish drinking water. but, to the extent that there is a problem, it is imperative that the irish government put in place a grant-aided programme to examine and, where necessary, upgrade existing septic tanks. but perhaps there is an agenda here not to invest in upgrading septic tanks, and then to use this as a stick with which to beat the rural population. if so, this is short-sighted and totally contrary to european legislation.
mr president, i wish to raise an issue in relation to the convention on the adoption of children. this was adopted by the council of europe in 1967. four decades later it is out of date and needs to be replaced. in 2002 the council of europe decided that it should be changed. there were proposals agreed in 2004. the text of the new convention was agreed in 2007 by the legal experts. however, it appears that one country is now having a road block and blocking it from coming before the committee of ministers. i think a clear message should be sent from parliament to the council of europe that this matter needs to be amended at the earliest possible date and a new convention put in place to bring it up to date with what has happened in individual countries, and also taking into account the decisions of the court of human rights. i would ask that a clear message be sent to the council of europe.
mr president, a wise december decision by the commission to allow the import of brazilian beef only from approved holdings envisaged by 1 february a positive list of approximately 300 farms, based on previous inspections by the food and veterinary office. confusion is rife following a statement today by commissioner kyprianou that there would be a ban from this friday, as the brazilian authorities had presented a list of 2 600 farms, raising major doubt, so more time will be needed to check them out. but the commissioner continued – and i am quoting – ‘there is no positive list for the time being ... but, of course, this can change in the next few days’. so, will there or will there not be a ban? will the 300 or so fvo-inspected holdings form a de facto positive list, pending inspections of others? why was there no press release today from a kyprianou source? our consumers and our farmers deserve clarification.
mr president, could i bring to the attention of the house a very important report published yesterday by the commission about the lives of over a million european people who live in institutions? these are people with a disability, and the conclusions are not very comfortable reading. the quality of life in these institutions varies greatly, and the dignity of the people who live there is not always guaranteed. institutional care is often of unacceptably poor quality. can i ask people in the house to read their own country report, because it might just wake us all up? i know the situation in bulgaria received media attention recently, and lots of us are concerned about that, but even in my own country we could make improvements there too. it is not just about money. services in the community are not more expensive than institutional care if we take into account the needs of the residents and the quality of their lives. lastly i will mention the delta centre that i visited in carlow in ireland just last week. it is a model of best practice for adults with a disability who can live in the community and visit this centre.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – mr president, i agree with ms hall when she points out in her report that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and immediately available tool in the battle to cap greenhouse gas emissions. yes, the commission is right when it states in its action plan on energy efficiency that, more than anything, political will and engagement at national, regional and local level are necessary if the objectives here are to be achieved. the whole report has been rightly critical of both the commission and member states for not doing more to implement existing energy-efficiency legislation. this pressure has resulted in the commissioner augmenting his staff in the area of energy efficiency and, i understand, setting up a special unit to follow up on the energy efficiency plan, underscoring the priority the commission is finally giving to energy efficiency in order to contribute to a reduction of our co2 emissions and to help tackle the critical issue of climate change. however, parliament’s report shows that progress on member states submitting their national energy efficiency plans is still lamentably slow and i would ask the commission to continue to put pressure on them. even in bali, europe was criticised for not giving enough emphasis to the area of energy efficiency and our efforts to reduce our co2 emissions. we need a mixture of legislative and market-based responses. for instance, if all eu lighting switched to new technologies, there would be massive savings on energy. fifty million barrels of oil would be saved and co2 emissions would be reduced by 28 million tonnes per annum. we await the revision of the energy efficiency labelling directive from the commission this year, as the current a to g scheme for household appliances allows no further room for increased energy efficiency and, while very clear and consumer friendly, it is now creating marketing problems for genuinely more efficient products as it has reached its limit. many appliances are classed as a+ or a++, categories that do not even exist. on the other hand, there are currently 188 million household appliances in the eu that are over 10 years old and are frighteningly inefficient. i thank ms hall for her wide-ranging report and i commend it to colleagues.
in writing . – this report on energy efficiency is timely - given our concerns about climate change and the need to face up to the finite energy resource of fossil fuels. but eliminating waste of energy is positive in its own right and from a purely selfish point of view; improving energy efficiency should cut costs for households and businesses. many individuals are aware of the need to be more conscious of energy use. many already know that a tv on standby uses 45pc of the electricity used by a tv that is on, that electrical equipment on standby uses 10pc of household energy in the eu and that leaving phone re-chargers plugged in uses energy - 95pc of which is wasted. and while we can all act to switch off power to electrical gadgets, would it not be more effective is the manufacturers designed the equipment with an eye to eliminating the energy waste. a combination of new development in manufacturing and increase awareness among consumers will yield results, but industry needs incentives to develop new products with energy efficiency in mind and the public need positive messages to educate them about the extent of energy savings which can be made in the home and office.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – madam president, the discarding or dumping of fish in european waters destroys over a million tonnes of fish a year, particularly in multi-species fisheries. globally, according to the fao, millions of tonnes of unwanted fish by-catch are thrown back into the sea each year. this has a very negative effect on the economy of future fisheries and on the health of marine ecosystems. the practice is amoral, unethical and completely unsustainable and results directly from the common fisheries policy, which criminalises fishermen for landing by-catch, thereby forcing them to discard – fishermen who are desperately trying to make a living while faced with ever-depleting levels of fish stocks. our ultimate aim has to be the reduction of these unwanted by-catches and the virtual elimination of discards through a discard ban, with incentives in place to ensure that all unwanted by-catch must be landed. but how and when we get to this point of a ban should be a matter for all stakeholders involved, including the commission, the regional advisory councils (racs), the fishermen, the scientific experts, the national governments and ngos, and fishery by fishery if necessary. the negative micro-management spiral has to be avoided and the common fisheries policy needs to be fundamentally altered, as the discard issue seriously discredits it. solving the problem of discards is beneficial for all actors concerned, particularly the fishermen. it is possible to implement bans, as the examples of norway and iceland show us. i am pleased that the report emphasises that fishermen and other stakeholders need to take responsibility and ownership concerning any policy to eliminate discards. new ways to monitor fishing vessels could be used, such as electronic logbooks and the use of cctv on the perimeter of fishing vessels, which has been piloted in canada and new zealand with some success. the only successful way to achieve implementation of any eventual discard ban will be through the involvement of the fishermen in monitoring and controlling and, above all, by peer pressure to ensure a level playing field. i thank the rapporteur for all his cooperation and this balanced report, which i commend to the house.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa a rá go n-aontaím go hiomlán leis an tuarascáil seo agus ceapaim go bhfuil an rapóirtéir tar éis teacht ar bhealach praiticiúil, iomlán maidir leis an bhfadhb atá os ár gcomhair: dramhaíl éisc a bheith caite i dtraipisí i bhfarraige. ach níl sé chomh héasca agus a cheapann chuile dhuine na modhanna nua-aimseartha a chur i bhfeidhm. tá sé in am deireadh a chur le cuid mhaith cainte atá déanta ar an ábhar seo agus gníomh a chur in áit. tá go leor atá sa tuarascáil an-phraiticiúil agus ar féidir oibriú air. mar cinnte tá rud amháin nach féidir linn a dhéanamh – agus sin ‘tada’. agus tá muid á dhéanamh sin le tamall fada maidir le fadhb na dramhaíola éisc. ba mhaith liom a iarraidh freisin ar an gcoimisiún a chinntiú nach iad na hiascairí beaga cois cósta a bheadh síos le haon ghníomh a chuirtear i bhfeidhm chun fadhb na dramhaíola seo a réiteach.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, glacann rialtas na héireann páirt ghníomhach, lárnach san eoraip maidir le coirpeacht eagraithe idirnáisiúnta a chosc. bíonn fórsaí póilíneachta na tíre ag comhoibriú trí mheán oifig póilíní na heorpa – europol. i bpobal de 500 milliún duine, mar atá sna seacht dtír is fiche anois, tá sé fíorthábhachtach go mbeidh na teorainneacha idirnáisiúnta cosanta ó ghníomhaíochtaí mídhleathacha coirpeachta. chun é seo a dhéanamh, caithfidh comhoibriú daingean, láidir a bheith idir seirbhísí póilíneachta, custaim, cabhlaigh agus faisnéise na mballstát uile. ba mhaith liom a threisiú ag an bpointe seo, nach mbeidh aon tionchar ag conradh leasaithe liospóin ar neodracht na héireann. is tír neodrach í éire agus níl trúpaí na tíre in ann dul i bhfearas thar lear ach amháin tar éis rún de chuid na náisiún aontaithe a bheith glactha ar an ábhar sin agus cead chuige sin – i ndiaidh vóta i ndáil éireann – ó rialtas na héireann.
mr president, my irish ppe-de colleagues now fully support the liberalisation of the postal services within the union, and we voted accordingly. we do so knowing that universal service is guaranteed to all citizens within the union, and that specific measures have been taken to ensure that rural and sparsely populated areas are served by an adequate number of postal outlets. a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom béim a chur chomh maith ar chomh tábhachtach agus a bhfuil seirbhísí poist do dhaoine a bhfuil radharc lag acu nó do dhaoine atá dall agus in éineacht le mo chomhghleacaithe éireannacha ón eep-ed iarraimid ar na ballstáit go léir an tseirbhís a choinneáil in áiteanna i ngach tír ina bhfuil sé ar fáil i láthair na huaire agus é a chur ar fáil sna tíortha nach bhfuil sé ar fáil faoi láthair.
in writing. − i do not support the paragraph calling for the withdrawal from the market of specific household appliances as this is too strong a statement.
mr president, i wish to point out that there are genuine concerns amongst trade unions in many member states about the recent european court judgment on the laval issue. the commission must urgently publish its view on how this decision impacts on the labour relations systems and, indeed, the collective bargaining systems of each of our member states. i know the impact in sweden is significant, and it is much less so in ireland. nevertheless, action is needed to make clear that the eu does not sanction social dumping anywhere. it is particularly important that the commission and the member states take steps to prevent the catastrophist predictions of the euro-sceptics becoming the common view of the issue. genuine concerns need to be addressed and any loopholes for the unscrupulous to exploit must be closed off in european and legislative initiatives by european and national parliaments. i urge you, mr president, to convey this matter to commissioner špidla and commissioner mccreevy, both of whom have a role in this matter.
mr president, i wish to raise an issue in relation to the payment of reps to farmers. over the last 14 years, reps have been paid at a very early stage once the documentation has been filed with the commission or with the department of agriculture in ireland. i now understand that the payments are going to be delayed, and that over 6 000 farmers are already behind in respect of receiving payments. i also understand that this figure will rise to over 60 000 in the next few months. the point is that farmers have planned their financial affairs for a 12-month period and have planned with their banks, and now many of them will not be able to make their repayments to the banks as a result of this change. i would ask for my views to be conveyed to the commissioner and for this matter to be resolved so that the old procedure –which was in place for 14 years – can be restored.
mr president, could i support my colleague and urge the commission not to keep picking rows with different sections of the irish authorities for the next few months, because we have a rather important job on hand? need i spell out exactly what will be required of the irish in relation to the lisbon treaty? i rise particularly to complain about the way the officials have picked on the reps payment system in ireland. for over 14 years the department of agriculture authorities in ireland – with the acquiescence of the commission – had a scheduled payment of the rural environment protection scheme payments to thousands of farmers and their families. now this year, in the last month, the commission have decided that it cannot be paid now, it must be paid at the end of the year. please do not pick rows with irish farmers or any section in ireland this year above all years, and let them have the monies they are entitled to have, in the way they have been paid for over 14 years now. now is not the time to pick rows. please hear us.
mr president, like the other speakers, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what is a very important report. i am prompted to take part in this debate because of the focus on agriculture. other speakers have said that there has been an improvement in terms of the controls and inspections, particularly when it comes to money given to farmers, and there is now the transparency initiative to publish what farmers are getting. one of the difficulties for those in the farming community is that they believe very often they are guilty until proven innocent. obviously, none of us can or will condone fraud, and because there is fraud in the eu budget there is a very poor public perception of the european union and how it accounts for the money collected. if the public understood the european budget better, they might clamour a little louder for us to be harder on fraud. it is important to stress the difference between fraud and irregularities, of which many are discovered, because they are very different. we cannot punish ourselves for irregularities, but we should punish fraud against the community budget. this is an issue involving the member states – as the last speaker said – because all the member states signed up to the european union in good faith and have pooled resources in certain policies, and it is up to us to ensure that the money we have pooled is well spent and that there is no fraud against the public purse. member states which are light on fraud, and take a light-touch approach, need to be punished in some way, but it is very important that member states that perform well in this area are not penalised. it is therefore important for the commission to take action at member state level. i shall finish by reiterating the very important point that, on the farming side, there is now a very strong feeling among those who farm that they are sometimes guilty until proven innocent. that is unacceptable, and we therefore need to be careful to get the balance right.
mr president, i rather enjoyed the remarks by my eminent colleagues from the uk and their storytelling about how things are done in the uk. i think we should write that down and translate that into many languages, because i think it happens in many member states that junior officials have a dossier and prepare various reports on it. i think we should not point the finger at the junior official but rather at the department that allows that to happen. i would just like to put to the house that there are concerns about the uk and ireland – and maybe the commission can update me, if there is an update about this particular issue – because, while there is support for the principle of mutual assistance between the customs authorities, i think that both member states, ireland and the uk, have reservations on the exchange of information between these authorities on the use of vat numbers in article 2a(f) and contend that the exchange of information using vat numbers is de facto, the exchange of fiscal information falling outside the scope of the proposed legal base. so perhaps there could be a comment on that.
mr president, i will resist the temptation to join in. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the detailed work on this report. let us be honest, this is not the stuff that people talk about in public houses and on social occasions. but getting our customs laws right is very important for business and for jobs, and that is why we are doing it. so the idea of centralised clearance makes good sense, if it works – and let us hope that it does, under these new rules. also, the idea of a single window has potential to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. but can i make just one point: let us take feedback, when this all is up and running, from the economic operators, and be willing to adjust it where we see problems which have been identified by other speakers this evening.
mr president, i was interested that the commissioner was the only one who mentioned the world trade talks. perhaps this is an opportunity to get some information referring to the new opportunities in the markets of our main trading partners that a successful wto deal would give us. but you also said, commissioner, that perhaps a new generation of free-trade agreements might do it. are you conceding defeat at the wto? perhaps you could give us some up-to-date information on that, because i think that is a crucial part of this debate. could i ask you, also, to clarify some concerns in relation to the current situation on the agriculture part of the wto? there are concerns about further concessions being made by the eu on import tariffs on sensitive products, and some large tariff-rate quota increases as being part of the agenda, because there is also the issue of what progress you are making at the wto on access for non-agricultural goods and services. i think we need an update, if you can give us that, as part of this debate.
mr president, commissioner mandelson expressed delight that he was here for two debates, and i am quite delighted too, because i would request some clarification on his very useful response in relation to the wto, and i thank him for the detail contained therein. he suggests that the rumours about advancing too far on agriculture come from a very small community of interests; i would suggest they (i presume we are speaking of irish farmers and agri-business) are usually well informed, and i suppose that what i want to get clear before midnight is that they are wrong – i hope they are wrong – and that what you are telling us tonight is fact. i would also note your comment in relation to the non-agriculture side of the wto. you also expressed regret about the text that is there. my original question is, given your comments about wto and free trade agreements, are you less confident now than at any other time that you will conclude a deal at the wto? it is a bit direct, but an answer would be helpful.
madam president, these reports seek to improve regulation of the market in products, especially by tightening up recognition of the ce label and banning misuse of the label. all this is good, but in my contribution to this debate i am going to divert a little to an aspect that is overlooked by these reports but which i feel is highly relevant to the discussion on products. the aim of the various proposed measures is to encourage people to buy products and, when they buy, to purchase european ones. how can we square this encouragement of increased consumerism with the need to use resources wisely? that is, to understand that these must be shared, not just globally but with future generations? some member states are primarily concerned with building their economies, but for others the issue of responsible environmental stewardship ranks with trade. those countries are seeking ways to square the circle of competitive trade and maintain a good, sustainable standard of life and product usage. energy efficiency, use of recyclables and low-toxicity materials are all a step in the right direction, but an important addition is the elimination of planned obsolescence. planned obsolescence is the deliberate creating of products that will not last and that are not repairable. when i bought my first microwave i deliberately bought a good one that would last. it lasted two years. when i brought it back i was told it was not worth repairing and that there was no one to repair it. so i bought another good one. it lasted two years. now i buy a new microwave every year – the cheapest i can find – and it is then thrown away. we have to be careful with our harmonisation that we leave responsible countries the option to ban products that have built-in planned obsolescence, and that we encourage countries only to allow in products that will last and are repairable, because it is those countries which are stuck with mountains of waste at the end of the cycle.
in writing. – it is with regret that i listened to the debate on the future of europe and heard the swedish prime minister question the agriculture budget in the eu. if this is a debate about the future, then it seems to be bogged down in the past. it is worth pointing out that the cap was one of the foundation policies of the eu. it provided food to feed a hungry europe and has evolved and changed over the last 50 years in line with political and public pressure for change. today the cap is not the biggest item of spending in the eu budget. yet i believe that spending on agriculture and food production is money well spent in a world where food security is now very much on the political agenda. looking to the future and the ratification of the reform treaty, it is important to tell people what the treaty is about and what it is not about! in ireland we are holding a referendum on the treaty which will, if passed, give an enhanced role and power to national parliaments in eu law-making. this is an important provision, but elected members of parliaments must use this new power.
madam president, the recent financial turmoil which shook consumer and market confidence brought home to us how important it is to have in place sustainable strategies for growth. it has always been the correct approach for the eu to have such strategies and to have policies of cooperation and coordination that strengthen us as individual nations and as a unit. many of the issues which are important to the lisbon strategy have been raised today, whether it is supporting innovation, fair competition, addressing energy issues, climate change, lifelong learning or investing in knowledge, to name but a few. i believe that increasing competitiveness and growth, and trying to reach the 3%, is absolutely vital if we are to see europe grow in the way that we want it to. i think an awful lot has been achieved. sometimes we are too critical of ourselves. well over 12 or 13 million jobs have been created in europe over the past number of years, which is more than has been achieved in the united states of america. however, if we want to get enlightened social policies and have the money for enlightened social policies, we have to liberalise our economies. and that is one of the issues that we are not addressing within individual member states. i believe that is the challenge: to have economies that are growing so that we can then spend money on enlightened social policies.
mr president, economic competition is a key factor to the lisbon strategy. the lisbon strategy is based on competition, competitiveness and growth and, although competition is important for any viable economy, remember that the basic mechanism of competition is that someone wins, and someone loses. the idea is survival of the fittest. in general within europe this makes companies pull up their socks, improve their products and services, try harder globally. on the other hand, globally it can mean extreme poverty for the losers, but even within europe this issue of losing is important for us to address, because there are citizens within our union who are losing by not reaching the benefits stressed in the strategy. for example, the goals for employing our citizens and relieving them from poverty are far from being reached. in fact, statistics are showing an enormous increase in not only those who are unemployed, especially among the youth, but also an increase in the social inequalities and levels of poverty.
mr president, the financial crisis and the tightening of money markets has spilled over into the real economy, and presents a serious problem that needs considered action. the financial stability forum has stated that we are likely to face a prolonged adjustment that could present difficulties. euro area growth will see a marked slow-down in 2008. the president of the euro group, mr jean-claude juncker, has forecast growth to be between 1.6% and 1.8% this year, which is a drop of a full percentage point over last year. the protracted and sustained rise of global commodities presents further difficulties for the european economy, with the price of oil, steel, minerals and basic agricultural products all rising to unprecedented levels, adding to inflationary pressure. the euro has strengthened at a time of a weakening dollar, which is impacting further on global imbalances and european competitiveness, and all these factors are creating a very difficult monetary and fiscal policy environment. but, lest we become depressed, let us examine how far we have come. sixty million europeans died in the first half of the last century. the berlin wall fell in 1990 and we are still in the embryonic stages of integration. despite that, if we look at the success of the euro, and in general the success of the european central bank and its inflation targets and low interest rates, we can see that despite all these difficulties we can overcome, and we can achieve the objectives we set ourselves. i would therefore ask the commission to please plough ahead with its 10-point plan and to make competitiveness its byword. up to 12 million jobs have been created since the introduction of the euro. please promote entrepreneurship. make creating a job the most profitable thing a citizen of the european union can do. this will deliver people out of poverty and out of misery.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an gcoimisinéir as a fhreagra, ach nach nglacann sé leis go bhfuil sé tábhachtach go gcabhrófaí leis na teangacha neamhfhorleathana seo ina gcomhthéacs féin agus gan iad a cheangal rómhór le foghlaim fad saoil. tá na teangacha seo i mbaol agus gan tacaíocht shuntasach dóibh astu féin, beidh siad i mbaol níos mó amach anseo. ar ndóigh, tá tacaíocht airgid tábhachtach ach tá an tacaíocht shiombalach níos tábhachtaí fós. an aontódh an coimisinéir gur chóir é sin a dhéanamh níos láidre?
a uachtaráin, tá gaeilge líofa ag mo chara seán ó neachtain, ach níl mise ábalta gaeilge a labhairt. tá brón orm faoi sin. could i put a question to you? i agree with the premise of your answer. money is important, but is it not more important that we know how to teach languages better? in countries like ireland, where people, like myself, would dearly love to speak the language but came through a system that did not give us the ability to do so, we need to find ways of teaching us how to speak our native tongue, because we would dearly love to do that.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an gcoimisinéir. chun an cheist seo faoi scéimeanna mórbhóithre – atá an-tábhachtach ar fad i réigiúin iargúlta – a chur i gcomhthéacs. in 2006, críochnaíodh 14 scéim mórbhóthair, ach ní raibh fiú is ceann amháin acu i réigiún an bmw. sa bhliain chéanna bhí deich scéim bóthair faoi thógáil, ach ní raibh ach ceann amháin san iarthar – is é sin i réigiún an bmw. sa bhliain chéanna tosaíodh 11 scéim bóthair, a bhfuil 222 ciliméadar iontu, agus níl ach dhá scéim de 25 chiliméadar san iarthar. tá an ceart agat, nuair a bhreathnaíonn tú, mar shampla, ar gdp nó gvp is léir go bhfuil an bhearna ag méadú agus go gcaithfimid rud éigin agus rud tábhachtach a dhéanamh faoi seo.
ionadaí don údar. – a choimisinéir, mar gheall ar an toradh iontach a bhí ar an tacaíocht seo don phróiseas síochána i dtuaisceart éireann agus i gceantar na teorann, an mbeadh an coimisinéir in ann a rá go leanfaí ar aghaidh leis an togra seo nuair a bheidh an tréimhse caiteachais thart tar éis 2013?
a uachtaráin, aontaím go hiomlán le mo chomhghleacaí seán ó neachtain agus táimid lánbhuíoch den aontas eorpach as an méid airgid a chuir siad isteach i dtuaisceart éireann, go mór mór i réigiún na teorann. is iontach an rud é go bhfuil síocháin ann anois agus ba mhaith linn go léir ár mbuíochas a ghabháil leis an aontas eorpach as an méid a chuir siad isteach ann. nuair a bhreathnaíonn tú mar shampla ar na figiúirí agus rinne mé tuarascáil le déanaí ar an international fund for ireland is féidir a fheiceáil go bhfuil níos mó ná cúig mhíle post cruthaithe mar gheall ar an gciste seo. ach ag an am céanna aontaím go hiomlán leis an gceist atá leagtha síos ag mo chomhghleacaí seán ó neachtain.
commissioner, thank you for that response. since the problem is growing and is set to grow, can you confirm that you will recommend that the budget will also continue to grow? the budget for the last five years was eur 45 million. are you aware that a survey in 2003 showed that 40% of children said that people they had only met online asked them to meet in person and in 2006 22% of them actually met the person. 51% of them never told their parents or their teachers. in that context, what targets have you set yourself, what measurements have you set against those targets, and what progress will you be in a position to report to parliament when we next come to renew this programme for the period up to 2013? i strongly support this programme and i would urge you, commissioner, to seek whatever resources you need to advance it.
thank you for your answer, commissioner. can i ask what action the commission will take to intensify its work with parents? that is the real problem. children are unfortunately way ahead of us in this area. i am alarmed that this programme will end in 2008, and am also conscious that not everyone knows about it, even if many do. i hope you will take this point on board, and i believe that you need to do more, proactively, to encourage awareness.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, shínigh ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh an conradh um athchóiriú ar an aontas eorpach i mí na nollag seo caite. cinnteoidh an conradh go ndéanfaidh an taontas eorpach a chuid oibre ar bhealaí níos éifeachtaí sna blianta amach romhainn. ciallóidh aontas eorpach níos éifeachtaí geilleagar níos láidre don eoraip agus d’éirinn. cuireann comhlacht ar bith atá 50 bliain ar an saol leasaithe i bhfeidhm chun tabhairt faoi dhúshláin nua. tá cúiseanna an-láidre ag muintir na héireann vótáil ar an gconradh seo. the economic and financial benefits coming from involvement within the european union are self-evident to anybody in any member state. indeed, the single market is one of the most important developments that we have seen over the last 30 years of development within the european union. and, obviously, any organisation that started off with six member states does require rule changes as it advances and as it grows. that is why i believe the irish people, in the upcoming referendum on this treaty, will vote in favour. they will vote in favour because they have seen huge foreign direct investment into ireland. they have seen huge development with regard to infrastructure and social development on the island of ireland. they have seen tremendous work being created on peace on the island of ireland, bringing together formerly divided communities. and those that would point the finger and say ‘europe is wrong’ or ‘europe is bad’, and ‘look at the kind of things it is going to do’, totally ignore the evidence on the ground: social development, economic development, cultural development. in fact many people, when they speak about europe acting on the world stage, forget that, in 2006 alone, the european union of 27 member states contributed eur 46 billion towards the developing world: the largest donor of developing aid in the whole world. that is why i am confident that the irish people, when this is explained to them properly in the coming months, will guarantee that we will ratify this treaty.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the lisbon treaty will be subjected to the democratic scrutiny of the people in ireland alone. there is clearly a fear of referendums in other states, and i find myself asking why. why so, when we talk so much about democracy? who here fears the voice of the people? in this chamber, we speak the language of peace, and yet lisbon commits us to further increases in union military spending and to continuing support for the armaments industry in europe. why do we insist on emulating the united states? do we really believe that creating its european equivalent will promote a peaceful world? i do not. we continue with the myth that the eu values public services and workers’ rights, when all the evidence on the ground contradicts this. ask the people of vaxholm or the workers of irish ferries about the eu’s commitment to the vindication of workers’ rights. why is it that we congratulate ourselves on being substantial donors of aid to developing countries and, at the same time, we devise partnership agreements that force poor countries to lay bare their markets to european economic ambition? how can any of us here today who believe in democracy, peace or public services support the lisbon treaty? this treaty is not about reform or efficiency; it is a carte blanche for further erosion of democracy, and its self-amending clauses alone are evidence of this. it is a charter for further privatisation. it offers no advance on the environment, nothing new on the protection of workers’ rights and it gives powerful eu institutions a free hand to further militarise our union. would the people of europe support such a treaty? i believe they would not, and perhaps that is why they are not being asked. as an irishwoman, as a proud european, i want my country to have the freedom to take decisions in the best interests of our people. i want all member states, large and small, to enjoy that right equally. collectively and democratically, we can bring about positive change, delivering for our people and delivering for the global village. we need to reform the european union to enable us to achieve these things, to create the europe that our people want and deserve. the lisbon treaty is a bad deal for ireland, it is a bad deal for europe and it is a bad deal for the wider world.
mr president, i object to a report on the lisbon treaty being rushed through this house before members are given the treaty in a readable, contextual form. we have been sent amendments that, in that form, are nonsense. would we vote on other reports in this house based on amendments, without having seen the document? should we take this report on faith? as legislators, this is not what our constituents have sent us to strasbourg to do. i come from ireland. we are having a referendum. as news of this spreads, i am receiving requests for the treaty every day. when i have to tell people there is no readable version, they are incredulous. but when i tell them that this is by decree of the intergovernmental conference, they are angry. i have no doubt this feeling is even more intense for other frustrated peoples of europe, who are denied a referendum. but i can only imagine how people will react when they hear that their meps passed this report on a treaty that they have not read. i will let you in on a secret. our citizens are intelligent, thoughtful and well capable of playing their democratic role in their own governance. and what we are doing here today, and throughout this lisbon process, is a betrayal of our citizens, the very citizens whose cooperation and hard work we will need to further the european project. i warn you: do not be surprised if, some day, these same long-suffering citizens refuse that cooperation.
mr president, as one of only 13 members of this house who will have the opportunity to vote on a referendum on the treaty of lisbon, i am satisfied to give it my support. like any document, it is not perfect, as commissioner wallström has said. it is a compromise, but it is going in the right direction. because of time constraints, i will keep my comments to just one topic. the treaty maintains the principle of subsidiarity – the principle that we take decisions at the most appropriate level. in ireland one of the arguments used by supporters of a ‘no’ vote is to suggest that lisbon is a self-amending treaty, yet article 48(4) states quite clearly that any amendments to the treaty will enter into force only after being ratified by all member states in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. that is the very essence of subsidiarity. what surprises me about the debate in this house at times – even though i suppose i should not be surprised – is that those who shout longest and loudest about the sovereignty of member states are the very ones to attempt to undermine that sovereignty by lecturing and hectoring member states about the need to hold a referendum, when national legislation and, therefore, sovereignty and subsidiarity, dictate otherwise. lisbon upholds the sovereign right of member states to make such decisions, and that is just one of the very many reasons why i support it.
mr president, this treaty is not an elegant document. there are many ‘ifs’, ‘buts’ and ‘maybes’, because there is no other way for a diverse family of nations to share power. however, despite the naysayers, it responds to our citizens’ demands for more democracy and a greater capacity to do those things which nation states cannot do effectively on their own: peacekeeping, climate change, migration, financial and market regulation, and, indeed, labour regulation. at this time of global instability, the european union is more important than ever for small member states like ireland. today’s vote will again show up the bizarre alliance of market fundamentalists, ultra-left and ultra-right, which opposes this treaty. they have one thing in common: an urge to confine peoples’ democratic reach behind national borders. the multimillionaires – the murdochs in britain and the ganleys in ireland – cynically manipulate national chauvinism to seek to deny europeans reaching beyond their national borders to regulate business in the wider interests of society. the others, sinn féin and their allies, do not trust the citizens and their ability to create an accountable transnational democracy. their stock-in-trade is fear, fear of our neighbours, of democratic parliaments, of governments and of globalisation. they fail to explain how more power for parliaments means less democracy. they masquerade as internationalists but they object to neighbours helping each other in times of crisis or attack. they refuse to countenance binding european laws to protect us and our neighbours from climate change, the abuse of workers’ rights and abuse of the market. the weapons of those who pedal fear is the big lie, eloquently demonstrated here today by ms mcdonald and ms sinnott. they wearily turn truth on its head to claim that elected representatives of more than 80% of the people of europe are about to crush democracy, are about to deny people ever again having a say in the construction of europe. before polling day in ireland, all these big lies will have been shown up for what they are: the nightmares of parties which have learned nothing from their history and are bent on condemning the people of europe to repeating it. i am confident that ireland’s decision will be to stay at the heart of europe.
mr president, ireland has chosen to ratify the lisbon treaty by referendum because, on balance, this was deemed necessary under the terms of our written constitution, but i fully respect the decision of all other member states in their choice of ratification process. a few points bear constant repetition. the lisbon treaty does differ from its forerunner, the ill-fated constitutional treaty, in that it no longer consists of a single consolidated text. it merely amends existing treaties – on the european union, and establishing the european communities – treaties which, in their own right, have been ratified fully. in addition, the constitutional title and symbolism, and the reference to the eu flag and anthem, have been dropped. more europe means more of that to which europe brings added value to our citizens because, by clearly defining the limits of the union’s competences, the reform treaty or the lisbon treaty, gives both the european union and national parliaments clear definition as to where their competences belong, and confers, incidentally, more subsidiarity on member states, a point often lost. the reform treaty allows for greater continuity in eu decision-making, notably in the foreign policy domain, by creating the new post of president of the european council, who will be appointed for a two-and-a-half-year term, renewable on one occasion. a high representative for foreign and security policy would be appointed, who would not just be based in the council but would also be a vice-president of the commission. these developments will not, however, lead to replacement of national foreign policies. moreover, the existing rotating six-month presidency will continue as before, a fact often overlooked or misunderstood.unlike certain other eu treaties, this lisbon treaty does not create major new chapters of eu competence. there would, however, be new legal bases for patents, tourism, sports, space and administrative cooperation, a reinforced legal basis on energy policy and, most importantly, an explicit new reference to fighting climate change with existing legal bases on environmental policy. for all these reasons, my colleagues in fine gael and i will be supporting our government. all the irish parties, with the exception of sinn féin, will be supporting the government and working hard to ratify this treaty and to get the message across. sinn féin will not, because they are afraid of ‘greater militarisation of europe’ – ironic given that party’s particular history! colleagues, while your goodwill and support is most welcome, a gentle word of warning – please do not be tempted, in your eagerness for a positive outcome of our referendum, to tell the irish electorate how to vote. and, commission, please stop picking rows with ireland on administrative and other issues such as the reps, which can be misrepresented, deliberately or otherwise, by the treaty naysayers.
mr president, i rise here as – i hope – one of the ordinary and decent citizens of ireland referred to by my colleague mep, mr farage – although i think he has left the chamber. i am not surprised that ordinary, decent irish citizens are confused, because they have strange bedfellows on the ‘no’ side – ms mcdonald and mr farage. it beggars belief! could i say to sinn féin in particular: can they not acknowledge the role of the european union in peace in northern ireland? that is what will be enhanced by this treaty, not ‘militarisation’, as they call it. on the role of national parliaments, can i say this: let national parliaments take the power this treaty will give them and let the ordinary decent citizens of the countries force them to use that power effectively. to mr duff: there is falsehood being peddled in ireland on the ‘self-amending’ treaty: it is the invention of a negative mind. it is not true and it is not so. lastly, let me say that, contrary to the naysayers, like ms mcdonald and mr farage, this treaty is a good deal for ireland, a good deal for the eu, a good deal for europe, and i urge citizens in ireland to vote ‘yes’!
mr president, i did not expect to be called so quickly. i already made a contribution, but i would like to make just a further point here. we have listened to all the naysayers, the people who tell us that lisbon will further militarise the union, that it will lead to social dumping, that it will lead us all in the wrong direction. well, i have missed a little bit of the debate, but i did not hear anybody comment on article 49, which states that, if lisbon is ratified, any member state can decide to withdraw from the union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements. that means that all of those who believe that they should not be in europe can advise their citizens to withdraw from the union after we ratify the lisbon treaty. therefore, they have no excuse not to wish to see this treaty passed.
mr president, a ‘yes’ for the lisbon treaty is a ‘yes’ for the charter of fundamental rights. the eu charter of fundamental rights was initially drawn up to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights within the eu, in the light of changes in society, social progress and scientific and technological developments, by making those rights more visible in the form of a charter. that charter covers such diverse areas as care for the elderly, care for people with disabilities, respect for private and family life, the prohibition of torture and the right to effective remedy and to a fair trial. those rights apply to the eu institutions and bodies and the member states only when they are implementing eu law. while the charter does not establish any new powers for the eu, it does make it easier for citizens to find out what their rights and responsibilities are under european law. the charter was only a political declaration when it was initially agreed in 2000. if the people of ireland vote ‘yes’ to the lisbon treaty, they will also be conferring legally-binding treaty status on the charter of fundamental rights, to the benefit of all irish and eu citizens.
mr president, as far as i know i am the only member who is a director of elections for referendums, and i feel no obligation whatsoever to tell the german people that their decision is any less legitimate than the irish decision simply because we are having a referendum and they have a constitutional reason for not having a referendum. what sort of referendum do those who argue for a referendum want? do they want a referendum in which 50% or more of people across the european union make this decision for them, in which case it will be the big states, or a mixture of small and big states, which will decide for everybody? or do they mean that it must be over 50% in each member state, in which case each member state gives up its right to make the decision to every other member state! where is the rationality in that? winston churchill used the phrase ‘terminological inexactitudes’. i will say nothing more than that in respect of the yellow-bellies on my right, but they certainly are disingenuous at best!
in writing. − i am voting plus for this amendment, even though the lisbon treaty can only come into force after it is ratified by all member states - it therefore automatically respects the outcome of ireland's referendum. however, i am voting for this amendment, even though it adds nothing to the report.
in writing. − i understand the need for adequate reliable statistics to be gathered for planning purposes. i also recognise that this report is a significant improvement on the commission proposal. however, i have a number of problems with the idea of the eu gathering statistics at this level of detail. some questions are frankly not the concern of the eu. what possible relevance is people’s marital status to the eu? also, while there are some guarantees concerning anonymity and data protection, i am concerned that they may not be strong enough, particularly in the light of recent very large-scale failures in data protection. for these reasons i voted against the legislative resolution.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte uí cheallaigh roimh fhógra neamhspleáchais na cosaive dé domhnaigh seo caite. tá naoi mbliana caite anois ó rinneadh buamáil uafásach ar an gcosaiv ar ordú ó réimeas milošević. tá sé de cheart ag muintir na cosaive a bheith neamhspleách, agus ar bhealach chabhraigh imeachtaí na naoi mbliana seo caite le teacht an neamhspleáchais sin. tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go mbeadh meas iomlán anois ar chearta sibhialta agus polaitiúla an mhionlaigh sheirbigh atá fós ina gcónaí sa chosaiv áfach. beidh ar an aontas eorpach tacaíocht a thabhairt do rialtas na cosaive chun geilleagar an stáit a chur chun cinn, mar tá ráta dífhostaíochta de 40% sa chosaiv agus caithfear é sin a chur ina cheart. tá súil agam gur tús nua é seo don chosaiv agus go mbeidh an taontas eorpach sásta lántacaíocht a thabhairt le hatógáil a dhéanamh ar an stát nua sna blianta amach anseo. tá súil agam freisin, gur athmhuintearas a thiocfaidh as seo agus gur sampla é den dea-mhéin atá san aontas eorpach go dtarraingeofaí daoine agus comhluadar le chéile.
the minister has had a very long day, so i am just going to suggest that, from the point of view of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, he look at the example of ireland, where the structural funds and the cohesion fund played a major part in transforming a third world economy into what is the celtic tiger. it shows what can be done. three out of the four legs under the celtic tiger were provided as a result of the structural funds, the cohesion fund and other funding from the european union. we wish the new member states well, and we wish you well in your presidency.
could i ask you to comment a little more on the point you made when you said that you would want to raise awareness and have a public initiative on this whole flexicurity issue. my feeling is that workers probably know the ‘flexi’ part very well, but are less clear on that of security in this new world of work. and, on the issue of the minimum wage: coming from a country which has a minimum wage, i believe the issue is to make sure everyone is getting a minimum wage.
president-in-office, you did not answer my question, which was, specifically, if you could give an assurance that the necessary equipment for this difficult mission is available. would you please answer that question and give an assurance? as you said, it is under the command of an irish army officer, lieutenant general nash, and this evening 50 members of the elite irish army rangers will be leaving dublin, and will be followed by many more irish troops in the near future. will there be sufficient logistical back-up? do they have the medical services they need, and will you give an assurance, as i asked in my question, that all the necessary equipment for this difficult mission is available? i wish god’s speed and protection for the irish rangers and all the soldiers who are there, in their difficult task.
i have a question in relation to contact with groups which are opposed to the government. i am not talking about rebel groups, but other groups which are opposed to the government. has any effort been made to bring them on board, so that we have a more unified approach to the un mission that is going into chad, or the european union mission that is going into chad? all contact so far seems to be with the government itself. i wonder if the way forward might not be to get people on board who may be opposed to the government, but who are not involved in rebel groups.
this is just a follow-up to your response to this very complicated matter, which i much appreciate. i would just like to raise two related issues. firstly, the general-secretary of the knu was assassinated in his home in thailand on 14 february. i understand that christian solidarity worldwide had visited him two days earlier. what pressure have we placed on thailand to investigate that murder? i understand that the assassination was ordered by the regime in burma. secondly, my understanding is that refugees coming into malaysia have been quite badly treated. in fact, some refugees gave birth while in custody or in prison. what pressure we have put on both thailand and malaysia in relation to dealing with these issues?
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an bhfreagra ó uachtarán-in-oifig na comhairle. dúirt sé ina fhreagra ar cheist mo chomhghleacaí, colm de búrca, go raibh sibh ag iarraidh ar bhurma a bheith i bhfad níos daonlathaí. maidir leis sin, ba mhaith liom ceist a chur faoin mbunreacht nua: nach fíor gur dréachtaíodh an cháipéis sin gan ceannaire an phríomhpháirtí freasúrtha dhaonlathaigh, aung san suu kyi, a bheith bainteach leis ná rannpháirteach ann? níl sé sin sásúil ar chor ar bith. agus nach léir chomh maith, go gcoimeádfaidh an t-arm agus na fórsaí míleata greim daingean nó smacht ar an gcumhacht? agus ceist an-tábhachtach ar fad: an mbeidh aon mhonatóireacht neamhspleách ann ón ae nó ó na náisiúin aontaithe ó thaobh an reifrinn agus ó thaobh an bhunreachta?
you have answered the first part of my question very fulsomely, and i thank you for that. on the second part, perhaps what we need is a code of conduct that is effective, because we have many codes of conduct on paper, and they are not effective. i would ask perhaps that you make a statement in relation to when we review codes of conduct and see that they are not having an effect, will we take tougher action? i think we may need to.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this is a report on preparing for demographic change. does this mean we are giving up and accepting the dire prediction in the 2005 green paper? when that paper came out we saw it as a challenge to change. among other things, we wanted to find a way to enable women to have the number of children that women said they wanted. are we now throwing in the towel? our desire to raise birth rates is undermined by our policies. our competitive strategy is based on increasing consumerism. yet consumerism can be a deterrent to having children. in consumerism we are taught to be selfish. look at the advertisements. pamper yourself; have it all; buy. for most people, having children and a family is the opposite. it demand selflessness, sharing and putting others first. as we become consumers we increasingly ask, can we afford a child? and we weigh up the cost of a child against the cost of getting ahead or a social life or a car or a house or a vacation. the child often loses with the potential parents saying either ‘no, thank you,’ or ‘not yet’. and of course we must tackle infertility. but with over four million abortions a year in europe, we cannot really say that our falling birth rate is primarily about infertility. i asked my intern to read this report and she made an interesting comment. where are the men? if we want to talk about gender equality and demography, we need to talk about both genders being equally and fully responsible for rearing children. for many valid reasons, we have had to emphasise the cause of women. but have we reached a point where we have sidelined men? raising a child is an enormous task. although we must give all the help we can to single mothers and their babies, the state is at best a poor substitute for a caring, supportive and, dare i say it, protective father. many women do not want to undertake motherhood without an involved father. security is important in motherhood but financial security is not the whole story. we must encourage an emotional environment that is conducive to having children. our culture needs to encourage men to step up to the plate. more than anything, having children is about our closest relationships which is why more and more childcare – though useful in getting women into the workplace – will not help increase the birth rate. to rectify our demographic crisis we must restore the basic integrity of human relationships. we must foster trust, patience, fidelity and love. only in this atmosphere can men and women feel happy and secure enough to start a family and with real support for this family and family life, we will see an increase in births, plus the revitalisation of europe.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say ‘well done’ to the rapporteur. this is a very comprehensive report on a major issue for the eu: dealing with the demographic challenge. i would like to mention just two areas covered in this report: the situation of carers, in particular family carers, and the issue of pensions. in the context of carers, the report reminds member states of the multiple disadvantages faced by carers and also asks that greater support be offered to carers, in particular the right of access to flexible or part-time work. this will facilitate carers in making choices and having a reasonable work-life balance. indeed, the recent preliminary ruling by the court of justice supporting the case for constructive dismissal brought by a carer in the uk would indicate that the court of justice may be thinking along the same lines. this report also stresses that access to adequate services for those who need care plays an important role in ensuring the full and equal participation of men and women in the labour force. this will help us in achieving the lisbon objectives. however, adequate services should, of course, be provided in any case. the report also highlights the massive disparity in average occupational pension between men and women. this is often due to career breaks taken to care for children or elderly relatives. and the report calls on member states to take action to ensure that work breaks for maternity, paternity and parental leave do not constitute a penalty when pension rights are being calculated. it is crucial that today’s carers, many of whom operate on a 24/7 basis, are not the next generation of older, poor people. in order to ensure this does not happen, member states must take action to deal with the issue of pensions for carers. it would be totally unacceptable if those who carry the burden of caring were to be denied an adequate pension.
mr president, can i suggest that this is a very depressing debate, although it is based on a very factual and thorough report, for which i congratulate the rapporteur. maybe it is on too late at night because one could get nightmares based on the demographic trends that are contained in it. certainly if we do nothing, the forebodings contained in the report may yet come to pass, although some member states are reacting and putting in place measures to support men, women and children and that is positive. ironically, i grew up in an era where they told us we had too many children, and being one of a family of eight was probably large in the european context, although i am happy to say that my mother, at 85, is still alive and well. the simple truth is that women cannot do it all. we cannot have children, hold onto a job outside the home, mind elderly parents and participate in wider society. something has to give. i think the problem is that the birth rate is the issue that has given, if you like, in all of this. but, ironically, i have great faith in humanity, realising the reality of where we are at and adjusting to a more balanced look at what is needed for a vibrant society and again placing a greater value on children. perhaps this debate tonight will add to that.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. improving life expectancy in a static or declining working-age population will imply an increasing dependency across europe, with serious implications for our competitiveness with other economic regions, for pensions, health and indeed long-term care expenditure. interestingly, the age structure of the irish population is different to most other countries in the eu, and in fact our demographic situation is quite favourable over the medium term. our peak population age group is now about 10 to 15 years younger than in the eu-25 in general. but by 2050 our population structure will be quite similar to the rest of europe, with the old-age dependency ratio projected to rise to 45% in 2050, compared to an eu average at that point of 53%. interestingly, in 1845 the irish population was over 8 million. twenty years ago it was 3.5 million. today it is 4.25 million. our relatively high fertility levels have been augmented by increasing immigration and the return of economic exiles in recent years. if that is maintained it will help to support the balance between the generations.
mr president, science and technology have been identified by the african union as crucial contributors to sustainable development on the african continent. currently nearly all african countries are lagging behind with regard to scientific output and scientific capacity. take scientific publications as one indicator. egypt, as one of the strongest african countries in this area, accounts for a mere 0.4% share of global publications. scientific collaboration and cooperation offers the chance to overcome the extreme disparities in development. however, it faces considerable challenges in areas such as global sustainability problems like poverty, climate change, biodiversity, hiv/aids, infectious diseases, energy, clean water – the list is seemingly endless. add to that the brain drain, the problem of free circulation of scientists and limited access to information. currently there are more opportunities than ever to collaborate successfully with african partners. examples of these are in the areas of biotechnology, ict, space and nanotechnologies. coupled with africa’s rich natural resources and biodiversity, these could prove highly effective. in addition a renewed political commitment in africa and a greater commitment of industrialised countries including china are essential for any further development in this area. over the past 20 years the eu has gathered considerable experience regarding the organisation and management of collaborative s&t programmes. fp7 offers some very interesting opportunities to partners from africa but more can be done. we have to realise the full potential that cooperation on matters of science has to offer african countries and the development of the african continent. the fields of science and technology can and must do more. we must create broad channels of communication and networks between scientists and development practitioners to learn from each other. the concept of science diplomacy is back at the top of the agenda and must be adapted for a new era of the internet, of low-cost travel, 24-hour global news, the power of ngos – a long list. the fact that science is and must remain outside the realm of politics makes scientists trusted diplomats. it is time for the scientific community to increase its role in diplomacy. a vigorous new science diplomacy oriented to african citizens as well as to their governments will provide human well-being, education, economic growth and above all hope. a diplomacy of deeds and not just words. the millennium development goals look increasingly challenging in this year of science with africa.
mr president, scientific cooperation with africa has to be with the objective of developing a trained and active scientific community on that continent for the benefit of that continent, not, i should warn, to steal their scientists, as we do their trained medical and nursing personnel. i was very heartened in 2005, when in malawi, to meet a young trained agricultural scientist. he had been to the european union and had trained there, but was proud to be back amongst his own people, showing them how to use the soil and water to produce food to give them a sustainable life. i would just finish by saying that one of the areas that have been neglected in africa is investment in agricultural science, and the world bank’s draft report for this year is testament to that. so i think we should collaborate at all levels in science, but we should look particularly at the area of agriculture and natural resources.
mr president, i might be testing your patience, but i noticed a precedent earlier in the day for speakers taking the floor again if there were not five ‘catch-the-eyes’, so thank you. i would like to put a specific question to the commissioner. i spoke of diplomacy and science diplomacy – a diplomacy of deeds and not just words. there is a general view that the lisbon summit on the eu and africa last year was a major disappointment, and that there were more words than deeds. i would like you specifically to respond to that allegation. could you indicate any of the deeds, as distinct from words, that will emanate from the hundreds – if not thousands – of people that gathered in lisbon to talk about this most important issue, and when we might see something flowing from it?
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs. mr guellec’s report highlights the fact that, while there is economic convergence occurring between member states, there is also a widening of regional and local disparities. that situation goes to the very heart of cohesion policy and clearly indicates the need to include a significant territorial dimension in all policies, but particularly in the lisbon strategy. i have seen this situation occurring in my own country, ireland, where convergence with the eu average has been achieved – indeed surpassed – but where the economic gap between different regions is widening. it is extremely important that this gap does not continue to widen, and one of the ways of ensuring this is to increase investment in innovation, research and development in those regions that are lagging behind. i want to thank mr guellec for including my suggestion on the importance of social capital in boosting regional economic growth. we are all aware of the role played by physical capital, natural capital and human capital as the basis for economic growth and development. however, social capital, which is the latent resource residing within and among cooperating groups, provides the added value. data from the un handbook, which relates to a very significant number of countries, indicates that the contribution of social capital to economic growth is in the order of 5% of gdp. finally, in response to the comment by mr clark, who suggests we should have ‘trade not aid’, i would say that in the eu we manage both – trade via the single market and targeted aid where needed. that is the best of both worlds.
mr president, i think there is a typo on the ppe-de group voting list on this. could i beg your indulgence perhaps to draw it to the attention of our rapporteur? i suspect, on this, he means a plus and not a minus. i am referring to the roll-call vote on amendment 55.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i have a foster nephew from belarus, now an adult and considered a wonderful addition to our extended family. but i remember his condition the summer he first came to stay with my sister, and it is this experience that allows me, personally, to understand the difficulties, especially of someone disabled, raised in an institution in such an unstable environment. belarus needs relief – relief not only from economic and political instability but relief for the people. the people of belarus are particularly isolated, controlled under a regime that continues to threaten the democratic values and freedoms to which people are entitled. before christmas, i met two representatives from belarus. they informed me of the ongoing problem of defending religious freedom. religious activity is forbidden without registration with the government, and a person can be charged a fine or face imprisonment for unregistered religious activity, though government registration is made extremely difficult to get.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, like my colleagues, i agree with most that has been said by mr daul, mr schulz and mr watson before me. the reality of what we are looking at – apart from the geopolitical nature of the conflict or even the historical nature of the conflict – is that, every day, innocent human lives are being lost. every single day, families lose their members. every single day, one person dies or is injured. we go further and deeper into driving the forces of moderation further apart. we should not get into the blame game; we can all go back over what happened in gaza over the last months, with the cynical exploitation by the israeli authorities, cutting off water, power and food supplies to people, literally attempting to starve them into submission. but this is not just over the recent past; this is something that has taken place over many decades. likewise, the equally cynical reaction of hamas by launching rockets into areas and by the brutal killing of eight people in a school. but, even though we can go on and condemn continuously the actions of the extremists on both sides, whether they are the official terrorists or the state terrorists or the state-sponsored terrorists, it does not get away from the ultimate fact that what is required is dialogue; what is required is understanding; what is required more than anything else is respect for all human life. a respect of the value of one single person’s life. only then can we truly find a way towards bringing peoples together. because all of us speak about a two-state solution, but a two-state solution that is predicated on two viable states, not a patchwork of little bits in between everything else, but two viable states. likewise, when those two viable states are recognised, when their leaders are recognised, for negotiation and for discussion. through that dialogue with this, hopefully, another first step towards peace in the region with the ceasefire which has now been called, with the talks to get under way between president abbas and prime minister olmert and also with our desire to give whatever assistance we can. i do not blame europe for giving assistance to build roads, and water and energy plants, to build schools and health centres for palestinian people who were thrown to the four winds when they were displaced from their own lands. we all have a responsibility to ensure all of our fellow men are cared for and look after.
a uachtaráin, maidir leis an méadú ar mhinicíocht an líon ciontóirí gnéis a bhíonn ciontaithe ag na cúirteanna sna ballstáit éagsúla: tá rolla ciontóirí gnéis anois ina lán tíortha. nuair a scaoiltear saor an ciontóir cuirtear in iúl do na póilíní cá bhfuil sé ina chónaí. mar shampla, má bhíonn sé ina chónaí gar do scoil nó do chlub óige ba cheart go mbeadh an t-eolas sin ag na póilíní agus ag an bpobal. athchiontaíonn a lán ciontóirí, go háirithe, mura dtugtar cóireáil dóibh fad a bhíonn siad i bpríosún. ach níl aon bhac orthu dul go tír eile agus an choir chéanna a dhéanamh arís. dá bhrí sin, is léir go bhfuil an-ghá le bunachar sonraí eorpach chun an comhoibriú idirnáisiúnta a dhaingniú agus chun an fhadhb seo a réiteach.
madam president, i wish to raise the treaty debate which is taking place in ireland at the moment. i think it is simply outrageous that sinn féin and its leader, gerry adams, are claiming in this debate that if you were to vote ‘yes’ to the treaty, it will mean that ireland will be engaging with nato and will lose its neutrality. nothing could be further from the truth. there is a triple-lock safety net there to make sure that this cannot happen. they have said the same thing during the maastricht, amsterdam and nice treaties and it has always proven to be false on every single occasion. they have opposed every treaty since 1972; yet they claim they are pro-european. if you are ‘pro-’ something, you do not oppose it every single time. recently, in his speech to the ard-fheis, gerry adams never mentioned the eur 1.65 billion that the eu has given to the peace process on the island of ireland. i think it is only fair that somebody who says he is pro-europe should recognise the work that this union has done to improve the peace process on the island of ireland. if you are pro-europe, you prove that you are pro-europe and you do not put out outrageous allegations on this treaty that are not true.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, níor chóir agus níor cheart an tábhacht a bhaineann le slándáil eitleoireachta a shéanadh, agus molaim go hard an obair a rinneadh chun teacht ar an réiteach seo a bhfuil sé mar aidhm aige slándáil phaisinéirí agus oibrithe eitleoireachta a chinntiú. agus rialacha den chineál seo á gcumadh agus á gcur i bhfeidhm againn, is gá dúinn a bheith cúramach nach rialacha ar son rialacha atá iontu agus go bhfuil muid ag smaoineamh ar ghnéithe eile d’earnáil na heitleoireachta chomh maith. ar an mbonn seo, cuirim fáilte roimh an bhforáil atá sa tuarascáil agus a deir nach gá do phaisinéirí áirithe – iad sin a thagann ó thíortha a bhfuil a mbearta sábháilteachta comhionann le cinn an aontais – dul tríd an tseiceáil slándála bhreise. is mór an trua é nach n-úsáidtear an chiall chéanna maidir le hearraí saor ó dhleacht agus paisinéirí idirthurais. mar a sheasann sé faoi láthair, má tá duine ag teacht, mar shampla, ó na stáit aontaithe go héirinn agus é ag aistriú eitleáin i bpáras, tógfar aon earra saor ó dhleacht a ceannaíodh sna stáit aontaithe ón duine sin i bpáras. mar gheall ar an gcóras seafóideach seo tá paisinéirí agus miondíoltóirí ag cailliúint amach. aontaím leis an ngá atá ann tús áite a thabhairt do chúraimí slándála, ach léiríonn an réiteach a thángthas air i singeapór gur féidir an dá thrá a fhreastal. cén fáth mar sin nach bhfuil socruithe den chineál céanna déanta le tíortha eile? tá a fhios againn go bhfuil pleananna ar bun, ach tá gach ní ag tarlú i bhfad ró-mhall do na paisinéirí agus do na miondíoltóirí atá thíos leis seo ó thús go deireadh.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an uasal albertini as an tuarascáil seo a thabhairt os ár gcomhair – tuarascáil an-tábhachtach agus an-chuimsitheach. creidim go dtugann an tuarascáil spléachadh réadúil ar na dúshláin a gcaithfimid aghaidh a thabhairt orthu chun polasaí iompair ceart a bhaint amach. ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an ngealladh maidir le hiompar idirmhodúil. ag teacht ó oileán ina bhfuil cúrsaí eacnamaíochta ag brath ar na bealaí farraige agus aeir, creidim gur chóir go mbeadh an bonneagar seo ceangailte le hiompar iarnróid. ní tharlaíonn sé sin in éirinn. dá bharr sin, ní úsáidtear iompar iarnróid chun lasta a iompar. ó 1990 i leith tá méadú de 225% tagtha ar thomhaltas fuinnimh de bharr úsáid iompar bóithre. táimid ag teip go dona ó thaobh kiótó de. is léir go bhfuil an-ghá le hinfheistíocht as cuimse i meascán d’iompar in éirinn. ach ní tharlóidh sé seo go dtí go mbeidh athrú dearcaidh agus athrú polasaí ag na húdaráis áitiúla agus ag an rialtas atá meáite ar níos mó agus níos mó infheistíochta a chur isteach sna bóithre, agus ag an am céanna failí a dhéanamh ar fhorbairt iompar iarnróid – ní hamháin sna cathracha agus sna bailte móra ach sna ceantracha tuaithe chomh maith. mar fhocal scoir, molaim don choimisiún aitheantas a thabhairt don cheart atá ag rialtas gach ballstáit rudaí amhail táillí plódaithe agus cáin a shocrú iad féin.
madam president, while the details of some individual proposals in this report require careful study in relation to the principle of subsidiarity – especially any tax-related matters – the overall aims of the report deserve, nonetheless, to be supported. from july 2008, ireland will see major changes to our existing annual motor tax regime and to the vehicle registration tax (vrt) system. the new vrt system will see the introduction of a seven-band system based on carbon dioxide emissions and not on engine size. despite ongoing gridlock in our capital city, the irish minister for transport, noel dempsey, said in the last week that congestion charges will not be considered for dublin because the shambolic state of public transport offers little alternative to the private car. inadequate bus frequency, two light-rail lines that do not interconnect either with each other or with the main-line rail system, no link to the airport, no metro and still no integrated ticketing system – so much for efforts to reduce hydrocarbon use and greenhouse gas emissions! this picture of dublin flies in the face of the european parliament’s efforts and proposed measures to optimise the use of public transport, especially in urban areas.
mr president, i really have to ask commissioner borg if he believes what he is saying now. has he been scripted and sent in? is he really trying to say that these fpas are sustainable? a very interesting article in the new york times on 14 january 2008 talks about major fish populations collapsing in west africa and the desire for money from foreign fleets to override concerns about the long-term health of fisheries – the desire for money from the eu also to override any concerns about the health of fisheries. guinea-bissau, a nation of 1.4 million people: a prime example of how not to run a fishery. according to vladimir kacyznski, a marine scientist with the university of washington, no one has comprehensively studied the nation’s coastal waters for at least 20 years. and for two years sanji fati was in charge of enforcing guinea-bissau’s fishing rules. when he took the job in 2005, he did not have a single working patrol boat to monitor hundreds of pirates and dozens of industrial trawlers, most of them foreign. an estimated 40% of fish were caught without licences or in violation of regulations. quite frankly, i wonder whether we know what we are doing here. we have a huge conflict of interests. these desperate economies need our money, and they are prepared to sell their fishing resources. we should know better. let them have the money but let us not rape their waters. commissioner borg, please think again!
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin agus a leas-uachtaráin an choimisiúin, tugaim tacaíocht iomlán do chlár oibre polasaí an choimisiúin eorpaigh don bhliain nua. is clár é seo a fhéachann le cúrsaí eacnamaíochta agus polaitíochta na heorpa a fhorbairt. is clár polasaí é a bhogann an eoraip chun cinn agus a thugann tús áite do leas mhuintir na heorpa. tacaím go mór leis an gcéad pholasaí ar an gclár seo: fostaíocht agus forbairt a chur chun cinn san aontas eorpach. as we move into the year of the ratification of the treaty, we who support the ratification of this treaty by referendum in ireland are hammering home the point of view that europe must become more efficient, that it is essential that we recognise that the treaties that were there for six, ten or fifteen countries no longer apply to a european union of twenty-seven countries. in particular, we want to emphasise the necessity for greater innovation, research and technology towards creating the dynamic new economy for europe in the 21st century. in particular, i am delighted that the president of the commission and the other commissioners did not throw everything into the annual policy strategy 2009. it would be so easy to say that we are going to do so many things, but instead it has focused on key essential areas such as climate change, as has already been mentioned, and the issue of europe as a world partner and as a world player – in particular when we look at the risks and dangers around the world that we face today, not just in the middle east, not just in the western balkans, not just in africa, but even in south america, where in the last week we have seen how tension can arise so quickly. what is really required is a stabilising force, which the european union can provide on that world stage. finally, the european union must fully uphold the action required with regard to combating illegal drug importation, people trafficking and in particular the diminution of respect for individual human lives. please be assured that we, and my party fianna fáil in ireland, will be campaigning strongly to guarantee the ratification of the treaty to allow for the future development of europe.
mr president, i welcome this statement. but i want to draw attention in particular – and i would like some answers – in relation to page 18 and one of the key actions in relation to ‘the wider world’: ‘if appropriate, implementation of the doha development agreement’. well, my concern is that there is a rush to do a deal, but that the only pain will be on the agriculture side of the agreement and that there will be no gain for europe in terms of non-agricultural market access or services. i would like some information because i believe that we are being kept in the dark about this. citizens in my constituency were at my door all weekend expressing their concern about 70% tariff cuts on beef and dairy which will decimate agriculture and dump the common agricultural policy which we hold dear in this house. this issue is part of the debate on the lisbon treaty in ireland. i wish it was not but i would like some firm comments from the vice-president of the commission to reassure my constituents that they will not be sold out.
in writing. − i and my fine gael colleagues in the ppe-de group would like to confirm that we abstained in relation to amendments 3 and 11, and indeed the overall report, due to concerns over the issue of taxation and road charging. we continue to feel that both of these issues are up to individual member states to decide and therefore should not be included in a parliament report.
mr president, i am wondering what producers who might be listening to this debate would think – it is so complex. i congratulate ms jeggle for miraculous work in getting consensus. however, those of you who have flown into the storms this week know that a soft landing depends on which way the wind is blowing and none of us know which way the wind will be blowing in a few years’ time. i would think that giving a 2% increase in quota – and the voluntary bit in my view does not rest with the member states, it is the producers who decide whether to take it or not – will allow us to test the market, and we need to do that. 2% is not a massive increase for individual producers. as for the concerns – and perhaps the commissioner has thought too deeply about the balancing mechanism – you are heavily taxing producers who can produce while at the same time member states do not want to produce. we have had this argument already from other colleagues, so we need to do something about it. lastly, the wto deal might make ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am glad to see such a big audience here for this debate, because it is an important one. if we were to go on the clapometer in relation to large payments to royalty or individual farmers, they would be quaking in their boots in royal houses across europe. but it is a more complex debate, as we have heard from our eastern european colleagues. as regards the health check, can i say very briefly that in relation to decoupling and modulation in ireland, we have fully decoupled, and i think the commissioner acknowledges that. we want to stick with our historic payments system and we do not like increased modulation. it is robbing peter to pay paul, dressed up as something else. we do not really know where the rural development money will end up and we need to look at that very carefully. it is not article 69 that troubles irish farmers at the moment, but the wto. i have in front of me here, and will share with colleagues, the assessment of the latest paper from the wto. it is in full colour and it is not pretty. if mr mandelson has his way, then i am afraid that the beef and dairy, lamb and pigmeat sectors in europe will be wiped out, and so will the common agricultural policy. the cuts in tariffs range up to 70%. now, perhaps people do not understand the impact of that, but it means that our producers will not and cannot compete with imported food products and products that are produced to very, very different standards. the lamb sector, which parliament is actually trying to help, will be decimated by the wto. can i ask you, commissioner, to perhaps take this analysis that the irish farmers’ association has completed – and i will raise it again, because it is in full colour – and come back to me and tell me, i hope, that they have got it wrong, although i fear that they have got it right. there is a complete lack of information for this house on the impact of the latest text from the wto, and i think we need and deserve to have that information. i would just like to say that irish farmers support the european union, but over the weekend i had many come to my door who are questioning their decisions in relation to voting on various treaties. and that is serious, as the commissioner knows.
mr president, i welcome the proposal to simplify the regulatory burden for farmers in the context of the cap health check and i would urge the commissioner to give farmers advance notice of cost-compliance inspections when she is examining how to simplify regulations and make them more flexible. i am totally opposed to the increasing of compulsory modulation to 13% over the next few years. this would reduce the direct payment to farmers who have already budgeted for this money. there is danger that sheep farming’s vital role in preserving sensitive environmental and ecological areas will be eroded through land abandonment and that husbandry skills would be lost, and this must be addressed and supported in the cap health check. it is now clear from the last debate that milk quotas will be abolished from april 2015 and i welcome the commissioner’s contribution to this debate. it is important that there is a soft landing and i would support an annual increase in milk quotas up to 2015. finally, proposals on the table in geneva regarding the future of eu agriculture in the context of the wto are totally unacceptable, particularly from an irish viewpoint. i welcome the fact that many other eu member states are also opposed to these proposals and that the commissioner responsible will take account of these concerns.
mr president, there are a number of references in this report to the wto. however, i have real concerns that, while we debate this report on the cap in parliament this afternoon, the future of european agriculture is being threatened and seriously undermined by the negotiations being undertaken in our name by commissioner mandelson at the wto talks. the report calls for the concept of qualified market access to be pursued in wto negotiations. is commissioner fischer boel satisfied that we are pursuing that line? indeed, is commissioner fischer boel confident that the line being taken by commissioner mandelson will not undermine the beef, dairy and other sectors and, in some ways at least, render our debate here this afternoon irrelevant? the report calls for european non-trade concerns to be central in wto talks. is the commissioner satisfied we are pursuing that line, or are we just having a very polite debate in parliament this afternoon, while mr mandelson is attacking the very foundations of the cap?
member of the commission. - madam president, i will try to be very brief, but i would like to make a few brief comments on some of the speeches that have been made. firstly, it is clear that there is an asymmetry between the national structure of supervisors, the structures of financial supervision, the growing importance of supranational institutions and the global dimension, not only european but global, of financial markets and financial activity. and this asymmetry is creating tensions and demands responses from the european institutions, from the commission, the council and the parliament. that's not for us to discuss, i think we're all agreed. secondly, i am not so much in favour of some of the interventions which might suggest that the supervisory and reaction structures to developments in the financial system in the united states are superior to those we have in europe. i do not believe that the facts show this, but rather that one could argue in favour of european regulatory and supervisory structures and the way in which financial markets operate in europe in a whole range of areas compared to those in the united states. thirdly, the level 3 committees are extremely important. two of the three level 3 committees, the banking committee and the insurance and pension funds committee, were only established in 2005, even though the lamfalussy process started in 1999. we must make up for lost time, but a lot of time was lost before this commission came. fourthly, how to proceed? it seems to be clear from some of the speeches that some of the honourable members feel that the responsibility for moving forward or not moving forward at the right pace lies with the commission. i will not hide the commission's responsibilities, which it has as we all have, as parliament and as the council, and of course as the member states. my experience as a participant in many discussions in recent times in the ecofin, also in the eurogroup, on developments in supervision and regulation and on how to deal with the turbulence in the financial markets and how to respond to the uncertainty, the distrust, the failures that we are seeing in the system, my experience - which i can share with you, ladies and gentlemen, believe it or not - is that the biggest obstacles to progress lie in the positions of some member states. and not just in member states which are not suffering at all from the consequences of financial turbulence. there's a lot of work going on. i understand that parliament wants the work to go faster, but i think parliament has the same information as the commission, as does the council, to know that a lot of work is being done in many directions at once, and we are in a field where improvisation often leads to mistakes, and where trying to do things before knowing what things have to be done is often counterproductive. and there are experiences in europe and the united states with previous supervisory problems, with previous regulatory problems, with previous financial problems which show that it is better to wait a few months and get it right than to speed up the possible response and further aggravate the problems that you want to deal with. and one final consideration. the right of initiative in european union legislation belongs to the commission. the commission will never give up its right of initiative, it will never transfer that right of initiative to the lamfalussy committees. it is not the commission's responsibility to take the initiative, but it is the commission's responsibility to take the initiative. what is true, and i have said it, is that we all think, starting with the commission, that the coordination between the committees at level 3 lamfalussy, the ability to adopt criteria and decisions by a majority voting system, the ability to react with almost binding decisions, is something that is becoming more and more obvious and more and more necessary, in view of the extraordinary importance of the task these committees have to perform; but that should not lead us to confuse them with the depositaries of the right of legislative initiative in europe.
madam president, on a point of order, according to the parliamentary website oral questions, my question was no 3 on the list. the question was designed to be answered by commissioner mandelson, as its title clearly stated ‘wto talks’ and mr mandelson is conducting those talks on our behalf. however, i now see that my question has been put into section 3, which means that it will not be verbally answered by commissioner mandelson. i am asking whether he is refusing to be accountable to the house for the wto negotiations. what is the point in tabling a question to a commissioner who is present on the day if the commissioner refuses to answer that question?
madam president, that is the problem, because the question, on wto talks, was clearly for commissioner mandelson. he is the commissioner who was conducting those talks, he is here today and he is refusing to answer the question.
member of the commission. − it is true that in some countries these copyright levies are really very high or the differences are striking. this is one of topics which we are dealing with. we did it last year, and i am sure that the commission will come back to these issues. my colleague, commissioner charlie mccreevy, is responsible for this file, and i see it in connection with other areas where either copyrights, terms of protection or authors’ rights are concerned or touched upon. so i know about the issues, but thank you for the message, which is repeated by some countries and some industries. i am sure that this will be part of reviews in the near future.
member of the commission. - the madam president, the commission's first priority is to conclude an ambitious international agreement on climate change covering the period after 2012. the bali conference was an important step in the effort to tackle climate change on a global basis. all parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, including the united states, china and india, have agreed to begin formal negotiations. the challenge now - and this is a key priority for the european union and the commission - is to reach agreement on a future international climate legal framework before the end of 2009. this framework must be universal, ensure the commitment of all and be effective. the european union must continue to play a leading role in the negotiations, as it did very successfully in the run-up to the bali conference and, of course, during the course of the conference, if we are to achieve the desired result, which is the international agreement. the package of proposals on climate and renewable energy, which the commission presented on 23 january, is precisely to do this, namely to maintain the european union's leading role and to demonstrate clearly that the european union is determined to move forward. the european union's emissions trading system is the main means by which we can direct investment towards cleaner technologies. emission trading ensures that the union's greenhouse gas targets are met at the lowest possible cost. the european union's proposal for a revised marketing system directive provides for auctioning as the main method of allocating rights. the auction, on the one hand, provides incentives for investments in low-carbon technologies and, on the other hand, prevents undesirable situations from unjustified allocations and undue profits. the commission therefore proposes that from the beginning of the third marketing year onwards no more free allocations should be made to electricity generating undertakings, and that in the industrial sector free allocation should be gradually reduced with the aim of being completely abolished by 2020. some energy-intensive sectors or industries operate in a highly competitive international market and therefore cannot pass on costs to consumers without risking losing a significant part of the market. in the absence of an international agreement, there is a risk that they will be relocated outside europe, leading to an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions (carbon leakage). the sectors concerned by this risk of carbon leakage must be objectively identified. the commission therefore proposes to examine this matter carefully and to draw up a list of vulnerable sectors or sectors by the year 2010. by june 2011, the commission will assess the situation in these energy-intensive sectors on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations on the international agreement on climate change or on any sectoral agreements that may have been concluded. on the basis of this assessment, the commission will report to the european parliament and the council in 2011 and, if necessary, propose additional measures. these measures will include the free allocation of greenhouse gas emission allowances to energy-intensive sectors up to 100%. the commission proposal also mentions the establishment of an effective carbon dioxide compensation mechanism as another measure. the aim is to put industrial installations in the community which are at significant risk of carbon leakage on a comparable and equal footing with those in third countries. such a system of equalisation could even provide for the imposition of conditions on importers similar to those applicable to installations within the european union, such as, for example, the obligation to surrender carbon dioxide emission allowances. any agreed method and action should be fully consistent with the principles of the united nations framework convention on climate change, in particular the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, taking into account the special situation of least developed countries. it should also be consistent with the community's international obligations, including the rules of the world trade organisation. finally, the climate and energy proposal has been adopted collectively by the entire european commission, so it is supported by all its members.
thank you, commissioner, for a very substantial reply to my question, which, incidentally, i tabled long before i realised i would have responsibility as rapporteur for the review of the eu emissions trading scheme situation. my question was quite specifically about where we stand, ‘we’ really being the college of commissioners at this stage, in relation to a possible introduction of carbon adjustment tariffs, or carbon allowances, in the event that we do not get international agreement. i agree with you very much that we need a level playing field for eu industry and third-country production in this area. i just want to tease out whether this option – and i am not being protectionist, and i really support the globalised world we live in today – of a potential carbon adjustment tariff is still out there on the table. i feel it should be, so i am asking you whether that is the position of the college of commissioners on this issue, to mark the seriousness with which we treat the whole need to reduce co2 emissions and the whole climate change debate. we do not need to be aggressive about it, but we need to be determined about it.
member of the commission. − i fully agree with you, and this is a very responsible position. i am very glad that you are going to be the rapporteur for this very important piece of legislation. of course, we discussed everything. i remember that in nairobi we had a specific discussion on this issue. we discussed it in my services, with other services and with other commissioners, and what we concluded as being a wise, balanced position is to include in the proposal a provision which will take care of the problems that energy-intensive sectors could face in the event that we do not have an international agreement, or that an international agreement does not impose carbon constraints in other countries as ambitious as the european union’s. what we have decided is that, by 2010, we shall identify with objective criteria which are these sectors, and by june 2011 we shall assess the situation of whether we have an international agreement or even international sectoral agreements. accordingly, i hope, and i sincerely believe, that we will have an agreement by the end of 2009, one which will tackle climate change problems effectively. however, if we do not have an agreement, or if it is not ambitious enough, then there are provisions in our proposal that permit us to assess the situation and, accordingly, either provide emissions allowances for up to 100% of the allocations of these energy-intensive industries or permit the inclusion of importers into our emissions trading system and, of course, the obligation to pay for similar amounts of allowances as local producers will do, so equalising the situation – or even a combination of these measures. therefore, we are giving the necessary assurance to our industries that we will be looking at the problems. at the same time, we are giving a warning to other countries: they had better agree on an international agreement. therefore, by having this very balanced position, we are achieving all the objectives, and i hope that parliament and the council will vote on and adopt the legislation as soon as possible, by the end of the year or early next spring.
in a debate this afternoon on the cap, we discussed imports into the eu and we called on the commission as a matter of urgency to develop a plan to push through european non-trade concerns in the wto talks. surely the issue of climate change must feature high on our list of priorities and carbon tariffs on imports into the eu is certainly important in this regard. so i would just like to ask the commissioner, as mrs doyle did in her original question, does the wto have a view on this, and what is it?
member of the commission. − i fully agree that we should not export technologies which are going to pollute abroad. actually, our first concern will be that we shall not permit the relocation of sectors or industries outside the european union, not only because we are going to lose jobs and we are going to create employment problems but also because we do not want to carry on emitting and polluting in countries that do not have carbon restraints as we have. so we should be very careful and we should apply our utmost attention to not permitting this phenomenon to occur. of course, when we are preaching that the main way for developing countries to fight climate change is by improving energy efficiency, we have to be very careful what we are exporting to them. regarding the world trade organisation position on carbon tariffs, we do not know their position, because the question has not arisen, but, after examination within the european union, we think that there is no problem, because what we have tried to do with the inclusion in the emissions trading system, which is a bit different from border tax, is to equalise the situation. we do not favour our industries; we put them in the same position as similar industries and sectors which are producing in countries with no carbon constraints. by the way, in the united states they are having the same discussion, because in the liebermann-warner bill for the introduction of an emissions trading system in the united states they have a similar provision. this discussion also took place in the united states and they also think that this is compatible with world trade organisation rules.
member of the commission. - thank you very much, madam president, and also to mr burke for his question. i would like to say that the ambition of this year, the european year of intercultural dialogue, is to promote the dialogue of cultures as a process in which all those living in the european union can improve their own ability to deal more and more openly with the complex cultural environment in their daily lives. it aims to raise awareness, especially among young people, and to develop in them an active european citizenship that is open to the world, that respects cultural diversity and is based on common values. in this context, youth and education are key areas for intercultural dialogue, alongside areas such as migration, minorities, multilingualism, employment, as well as media, religion, art, culture. the european union is co-financing 7 flagship projects at pan-european level, which are mainly targeted at young people, encouraging cultural dialogue between young people through so-called collaborative art projects, storytelling, media projects, media campaigns, urban culture, exchanges between disadvantaged settlements or communities, and developing dialogue with the arts, immigrants and immigration and related topics. the european union also co-finances one project for each or in each member state during this year, where a very large number actually focuses on young people and education. we are also in constant contact with the so-called steering group of the civil society platform for intercultural dialogue, which includes members representing, for example, the european youth forum, but also efil, which is the european federation for intercultural education or learning. so i'll conclude by saying that, for example, the communication campaign itself about the importance of this year, about the importance of the dialogue of cultures, includes a lot of activities that are relevant to young people and come from the proposal of civil society or from the initiatives of the european union. and of course, the compendium or complex of all the information is available on the internet on the website http://www.interculturaldialog2008eu'; so the whole process is very communicative, it helps partnerships, it helps to make good projects, good experiences visible, and i am convinced that this will strengthen the process of 'dialogue of cultures' as a process, not as a one-off event.
thank you very much, commissioner, for your very detailed reply, and i welcome the developments which you referred to. i know you, as commissioner, and the commission are working very hard on this programme. in relation to the 27 individual governments, what programme have you asked them to get involved in with regard to supporting what the commission is doing? in other words, while it is fine that we are putting up seven flagship projects, is each individual government also going to put forward a flagship project within each of their own individual countries?
member of the commission. − i said that this is a common cause, a common endeavour, and there are many good ideas and ongoing initiatives at european and national level, plus many at regional and municipal level. i am happy that there is this kind of strong interest, even internationally, to see opportunities and to seek the opportunity to promote an intercultural approach instead of ‘multi-culti’ comments and laments. i think we need this. i do not intend to read out the projects themselves; they are quite inspirational – especially at eu level – because these were selected from many at eu level, and they are very different to those as the level of the member states. in fact we have 28, because in belgium there are two main communities and support. we think that the member states which involve the young generation, which are really open to the future, are probably the best examples of addressing the challenges of living in diversity, and also promoting unity. projects like diversidad, which is run by the european music office. here we see a combination of very popular activities: music, music interpretation, listening to music, learning via music, and dialogue with urban culture. the international yehudi menuhin foundation; ton monde est le mien, something which reflects that we need others to understand ourselves; a unique brussels, which is a network of eu institutes of culture; alter ego, a contribution to intercultural dialogue, cross-cultural understanding, and european citizenship by young people through collaborative art projects, which can make them reach beyond their normal social circles. one project is by the european cultural foundation – stranger. this is about young people expressing themselves and creating a platform where they can link their experience to the wider european context. last but not least, i think it is very important that parliament is involved as much as possible, individually or collectively. there are many occasions – events in brussels, for example – on different topics connected to intercultural dialogue. we as a commission will invite the committee on culture as a body (this also means members) to all the events we are participating in or co-organising. we will have, for example, a european youth week in november, and i think they should come. some of the events should be organised in the premises of parliament in brussels, with the participation of parliamentarians and, of course, young people from all countries including non-eu members. there are many occasions where you can have a say and, especially, set an example and show your commitment. i believe this should not be just a one-year story. it must be a long-term objective and a process where we learn, participate and mature in order to ensure a better century than the 20th century, which was one of many divisions, conflicts and ideologies opposing human dignity. so i think there is strong momentum for your involvement.
i am just wondering, in the whole area of intercultural dialogue and the involving of young people, whether the commission has looked at the excellent work that is being done in the north of ireland in this particular area: in the north, between the two different communities that have been at loggerheads for so long, and on a cross-border basis. i think there is something specific there that could be drawn on, and i would ask the commission whether it has looked at it and, if not, could they do so.
i shall be very brief. i just want to ask the commissioner whether there are any measures proposed in the area of volunteering. this is surely an ideal opportunity for people from different backgrounds to work together by choice, particularly, let us say, in the area of youth volunteering, with programmes that would set out to ensure that people who do not normally volunteer would get involved – because sometimes volunteering tends to be a white, middle-class activity – and in the area of intergenerational volunteering. are there any measures in those areas to promote intercultural dialogue?
the debate on the lamfalussy process was allowed to run 30 minutes into question time. as a result, i could not be here. i understood questions were starting at 18.00, that there would be 30 minutes for the first commissioner, and then i would be the second questioner for the next commissioner. the procedures of this house are absolutely crazy. this is supposed to be a model of organisation. the kind of organisation and the kind of procedures that we have here would not be tolerated in the most disorganised village or town council within the european union. it is absolutely crazy. question time should be sacrosanct and there should be absolutely no overrun. it discriminates against those members who put down questions well in advance and there is absolutely no excuse for it.
i should like to thank the commissioner for his clarity, because this is a huge issue for the animal feed industry. but does he see – as i see – an increasing unwillingness among consumers to take on board the reality of the eu feed market? he mentions very effectively the issue of the impact on our poultrymeat and pigmeat sector on competitiveness. perhaps at a later stage we can discuss the wider issue of wto rules in relation to non-trade and the negotiations currently under way on the competitiveness of agriculture in general.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. it would be better if we were talking about the situation of people in rural areas rather than women, and indeed many of the problems for women also affect men in rural areas, but women have particular issues and i acknowledge that in this report. that said, the quality of life for people who live in the countryside can be better in many cases, where they have sufficient resources, than in the city. i think the problem has always been that women’s work has not been measured, has not been paid for and therefore is not recognised. in some countries, some progress has been made on this, but i think member states differ in how they treat women. i would like to mention a particular role that women play, and perhaps it has not been addressed yet. women are still, in my view, the primary motivators and educators of children and they are generally the ones who decide whether a child will farm or not, and often decide the future of rural areas. we need to pay particular attention to that so that they have a positive view of agriculture, and not a negative one. lastly, few women own land and few are in farm organisations. that needs to be addressed.
mr president, in acknowledging the hard work that our rapporteur, ms klaß, has put into this report entitled ‘the situation of women in rural areas of the eu’, i would have to ask: compared to men in rural areas or women in urban areas? what is the context in which we are talking here? there is no such homogeneous group as ‘women in rural areas of the eu’. i am a woman from a rural area of the eu, but the lady who lives down the road from me with six or seven children and a husband who is unemployed, and who cannot afford her rent or mortgage, is a different type of woman in a rural area. it is not a homogeneous group, and we must be very careful in this issue. many women in rural areas have an urban lifestyle; others have a lot of poverty and hardship in their life. you have an urban lifestyle in the middle of the countryside if there are two cars outside the door, all mod cons, ict and perhaps a foreign holiday a year. so let us give it some context. the real issue here is the restoration of choices to all women: the choice to marry or not; the choice to have children or not, to have a career, to have further education or not, to stay at home, to go out into the workplace, to start a business or to have access to property. a few years ago when i went to buy an apartment in brussels, the brussels bank manager would not sign off my mortgage unless i got my husband to sign it. this was only a few years ago in brussels. i got my mortgage and my husband did not sign it. might i say that i objected strongly! so the access to money, property and business – there are lots of different types of women in rural areas.
madam president, i also welcome this report: it puts us into the picture of what the potential for biogas is, and i know there are different experiences in different member states. one would wonder why there is such a gap in biogas production and use in some countries and not in others. as the commissioner said, there is huge untapped potential there and we need to do something about it, but not, i say, another directive, as we have plenty of them and it would just confuse rather than assist progress in this area. let me draw your attention to paragraph 37 of the report, which calls for a simplified planning permission procedure. it is perhaps the only mention of a most relevant fact in all of the deliberations about using waste and recycling. in my country and in my experience every time there is a planning process for a green recycling facility or the use of meat and bone meal for energy production, there are objections, because people are suspicious of these developments and are fearful for their health. we need to draw together the research and be very firm about what the truth is on this because the public has concerns. therefore, we need to educate the public of the need to recycle waste from agriculture and from sludge, but also be aware that there are downsides to this technology and that producing energy leaves a residue that has to be handled and dealt with very carefully. i would welcome some comments about this side of the debate, because in this house we tend to look at renewables as being wonderful, but we also know that the public objects to wind turbines in their back gardens. therefore, we need to bring the public along with us, but also to acknowledge that there are concerns about health that need to be addressed. finally, let me say that i fully support amendment 1 by mr mulder, a most sensible and very important amendment, and i suggest that i read it, because it re-emphasises the need to reclassify animal manure so that it is used properly on farms and the nitrates directive needs to be looked at in this context.
madam president, the generation of renewable energy from biogas is a positive development from an energy-supply perspective. however, the contribution of biogas from manure to the abatement of greenhouse gases requires further research. the draft report does not actually address the issue of unintended or fugitive emissions, i.e. those emissions of gases which escape during the production process. some research suggests that methane losses during production, and emissions of nitrous oxide when digestate is applied to the land, can negate any potential for greenhouse gas abatement. more research is urgently required. any review of legislation to support biogas production should be based on a rigorous life-cycle analysis to definitively assess the process in the context of renewable energy production and as an abatement strategy for greenhouse gases.
madam president, climate change, security of supply, price increases, incidents such as blackouts in parts of europe, and the ukraine gazprom wake-up call have all increased the awareness of the european citizen and policymakers to the complexity of our energy situation, which urgently requires the availability of accurate, timely and complete statistical data. in this respect, i welcome the commission proposal and the work done by our rapporteur, mr turmes. let me also take this opportunity to congratulate him warmly on his appointment as rapporteur on the renewables directive. energy use is responsible for 80% of the total eu emissions of greenhouse gases. the availability of timely and reliable baseline data on the energy situation in the eu is imperative in order for us to meet our objectives not only under the kyoto protocol but also in a post-2012 scenario. how can we reliably agree to transparent targets on fossil fuel energy reduction on the international stage and the increased use of renewables without such baseline data? we cannot. currently the compilation of energy statistics is slow, inefficient and often incomplete, and even inaccurate. as the rapporteur rightly points out, there is a substantial delay in the publication of eurostat’s energy data. can the commissioner confirm that this regulation will result in more timely availability of vital energy statistics and that the statistical model we use here in the eu is comparable to that used by, for example, the usa and other global players, so that we can compare like with like? finally, i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the new regulation should provide protection from data manipulation. accurate, verifiable and unbiased eurostat statistics are crucial to the whole range of current and future climate and energy policies, such as the eu emissions trading scheme, effort-sharing and renewable energy proposals.
madam president, a few quick questions, if i may, through you to the commissioner. could the quantities of plant protection products used in non-agricultural situations such as golf courses, parks, airports, railway tracks, roadsides, and home and garden use be deduced having regard to the overall quantities, that is the total quantity minus agricultural usage products? secondly, biocides are used in a very wide range of situations and use patterns, including in domestic households, and, while data on the quantity of biocides placed on the market could be collected, it is very difficult to see how comprehensive data on the use of biocides could be collected. or is the suggestion to include only the agricultural use of biocides? and, if it is the agricultural use of biocides only, why are we going into the non-agricultural use of plant protection products? my third question is: could the explicit stipulation of statistics on production imports, exports and distribution of plant protection products lead to confusion and potential double-counting of quantities of plant protection products?
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the president-in-office as well as the president of the commission to discuss what our elders, wise men and some would say our betters – although i do not necessarily agree with that – will be discussing during the summit over the coming days. rather than going back over everything that my colleagues have said, because i can agree with most of the contributions, i would say that it is not one or the other but rather a combination of all: trying to drag the best ideas out of all the different proposals that have been put forward and utilising them as the unique model which europe must follow. i say that because our experience over the last 30 years, and in particular the last 20 years, has shown that it is not either one or the other. you cannot have economic growth without proper social cohesion and social protection. you cannot have protection of the environment without proper investment in new resources, information technology and research and development to create the innovative ways of dealing with the problems we are now facing. likewise, you cannot solve unemployment simply by saying that we want more jobs. you have to encourage companies and businesses to create the jobs, to invest the money and to create the wealth. only so much can be done by public services, whether it is public investment for infrastructure or whatever else. ultimately it comes down to businessmen and businesswomen in small and medium-sized enterprises – which employ 62% of all the people employed within the european union – investing more money in creating more and more jobs. that requires a certain amount of flexibility. however, flexibility should not be a byword for a diminution of standards or of the protection of workers’ rights. likewise, you cannot use one bad example, like the laval case – bad enough as it is – to say that everybody else must be controlled to the most rigorous level. it must be used as a starting point, not as the end game. look at the challenges that we face in the european union today: our lack of investment in proper research and development. the best and the brightest from european universities and institutions are leaving europe to do their research and further work in america, japan and now even china. and look at the relocation of european industry and business: it is not to other countries within europe, which was the case 10 or 12 years ago; it is now outside the european union, to india, pakistan, malaysia and other countries. what we really need to be focusing on now is not just where the sudden subprime market difficulties are creating short-term difficulties today. if we look back over the last 25 years of the economic markets, they go in cycles: there are troughs and there are highs. what we have to ensure is that the foundation stones that we put down today will be as strong in 15 years’ time as they are today, that they will continue to deliver economic growth and that they will continue to deliver security of energy supply. the president of estonia told us here yesterday that russia is now acting like a superpower, to use its superpower status in oil and gas to influence foreign policy. we must ensure that there is solidarity within the european union to face up to and to meet that challenge. our best and most valuable asset is our young people. if we do not invest properly in education and training and give them skills and opportunities in the european union, we risk losing them. finally, let me say to the president-in-office that i want to pay a small tribute to the young people in slovenia for their work during slovenia’s presidency – particularly those in the protocol section – and the welcome and the image they give of slovenia as a country.
mr president, tomorrow the heads of member states meet in summit. i understand there are many items on the agenda, but i hope you will also discuss the impact of the laval-vaxholm decision handed down by the ecj just days after your last summit. this decision allows companies to post workers in any member state and pay them the minimum wage of the country, not the standard wage for the job in that country. further, the judgment renders trade unions helpless to protect their workers’ wages. this will force workers in the host member states to reduce their wages or lose their jobs. this, to me, is the ticking time bomb. the laval-vaxholm decision has the potential to unravel social partnership, industrial relations, the economic and social stability of whole countries, communities, responsible companies and families and to unravel support for the european project among its oldest member states. of course, reducing salaries will make the eu more competitive in the global market, where it competes against low-cost nations like china, india and brazil – but at what price and pain to a family in ireland with a mortgage? mr bonde and i have sent a protocol to protect member state economies from laval to the slovenian presidency and our respective prime ministers for inclusion in the european summit tomorrow. to avoid wide-scale social dumping, take the laval-vaxholm decision seriously and include this protocol.
mr president, i believe the spring council must reassert the original lisbon strategy to address in an integrated way the interdependent policies on economic, social, employment and sustainable development. to do otherwise is to invite the disintegration of europe and a retreat into protectionism. high-quality jobs are a key to this strategy: a europe of excellence cannot be built on the back of low pay, labour insecurity and inequality in the workplace. the laval judgment is a perverse interpretation of the legislative intentions of this parliament and its co-legislator, the council. both must, therefore, react as a legislator to reassert our intentions by legislating to close the loopholes identified by the european court of justice. one immediate legislative option is to annex to the posting of workers directive the monti-style social clause, which we have already included in the services directive. the commission must in the mean time insist on all member states properly and fully transposing the posting of workers directive into national legislation. indeed, member states must immediately revise their domestic labour-led legislation to ensure that the perverse laval judgment does not undermine their systems of labour relations and collective bargaining. finally, let me say that mrs sinnott, as usual, is wrong in her interpretation. she is wrong to state that the laval judgment means that only a minimum wage is applicable in ireland: it means that all legally binding agreements must be applied in ireland, and that is far more than the minimum wage. however, there are agreements in ireland that are not legally binding and that has to be addressed.
mr president, tomorrow the spring council takes place and eu leaders have much to talk about, whether it is turbulence in financial markets, globalisation or demographic change. on globalisation, we need to know from the council where the current round of world trade talks is actually taking us. there has been much speculation and some analysis of the latest papers as they pertain to agriculture, but there has been little official word from the commission or council on this vital matter. commissioner mandelson was with us here last night but i regret that the questions on the wto were not reached, and this house does not have information directly. against that background i am calling on the spring council and the irish prime minister, taoiseach bertie o’hearn, to raise this issue at this important meeting. a month ago commissioner mandelson indicated that, in the non-agriculture sector, the talks had moved backwards, not forwards. on agriculture, he suggested that the eu could live with the proposals on the table. i fear that this is a mistaken view. some analysis i have seen suggests that the common agricultural policy would be decimated by the current deal on the table, and this is a step too far. i would just like to say that, from an irish point of view, we are voting – we think – on 12 june on the lisbon treaty, so i tell the house that there is much debate already and more to come. i think it is very good that people are engaging in this campaign, and that it will strengthen the irish links with the european union – which is to be welcomed. but, given that there are people putting forward protocols which are not on their websites just yet – i have looked at mr bonde’s and have not seen it – i think that perhaps it would be appropriate for the council to comment on the laval judgment. it is being bandied about and misinterpreted by many, but i do think it would be good for us all to know what the council’s view is on this. in fact the treaty of lisbon, as i read it, is very strong on the social dimension and has no desire to mistreat or abuse workers throughout the european union or elsewhere. therefore, people in ireland should vote ‘yes’ to this important treaty.
a uachtaráin, maidir leis an scrúdú sláinte ar an gcomhbheartas talmhaíochta, ba mhaith liomsa a rá go bhfuil mé i gcoinne an chlásail atá ansin maidir leis na híocaíochtaí a bhaintear d’fheirmeoirí le haghaidh scéimeanna forbairt tuaithe agus forbairt imshaoil a mhéadú ó 5% go dtí 13%. ceapaim go bhfuil sé sin mícheart, ceapaim gur cheart é a fhágáil ag an mballstát féin an rogha sin a dhéanamh. tá muid ag caint faoi tháirgeadh bia anseo. táimid ag caint faoi slándáil bia na heorpa. sin é an fáth go bhfuil comhbheartas talmhaíochta na heorpa fíorthábhachtach dúinn. tá sé an-soiléir nach dtuigeann daoine ar fud an heorpa cé chomh tábhachtach agus atá sé seo. agus tá mé an-mhíshásta leis an méid atá á dhéanamh sna cainteanna trádála domhanda chun a bheith ag bagairt ar bheartas bia na heorpa agus dúirt mé é sin leis an gcoimisinéir mandelson ag cruinniú a bhí againn inné.
in writing. − we support the jeggle report on national quotas for milk, which provides for a 2% increase in the milk quota. in the committee on agriculture and rural development i put forward amendments calling for a greater increase in the milk quota of 3%. that did not get through committee and did not today get through plenary. our group supported the consensus view of allowing for a voluntary increase in the milk quota of 2%, and we urge the council to take the lead of parliament and give the green light for milk producers to increase production by 2% from april. we support the idea of providing for a milk quota balancing mechanism which would allow countries with overproduction to use up underused quota in other member states. it seems unjust to penalise producers who can and wish to increase production in some member states at a time when the eu overall is not maximising its quota. that said, today's vote is a signal to producers that the quota regime is being slowly loosened up in the run-in to the phasing out of quotas in 2015.
in writing. − we support the general thrust of the report on the health check on the cap. however, it is important to point out that the particular situation for ireland which has fully decoupled all direct payments from production needs to be taken into consideration. in particular, the commitments made to all farmers in the agenda 2000 reforms that there would be a reduction in bureaucracy. so far the experience has not been entirely positive. on the specific issue of maintaining the payments to producers, we cannot accept a move towards a flat rate payment per hectare regime. farmers have budgeted on the current system remaining in place until 2013. in addition, moves to increase modulation and take more of the direct payments from producers are unwelcome. we would have welcomed a high increase in milk quota but in line with our view on the jeggle report we have accepted the consensus opinion on a 2% increase for the coming marketing year. in the long term, however, it is the threat posed by a bad deal at the wto which looms large over eu agriculture. such a deal must be resisted.
in writing. − i strongly support the notion that we need to secure appropriate funding for rural development, many people living in rural areas are not directly involved in agriculture or have a part time involvement in agriculture, in order to ensure balanced regional development we must ensure a balance of development between urban and rural. however, this must not be attained at the expense of the first pillar. the development of rural areas is a worthy objective in its own right and must not be constrained by relying on modulated funds.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am happy that this debate has remained on the plenary agenda for this week. this situation in chad requires urgent attention, not only from the european union, but also from the international community. a summit is due to take place later this week between chad and sudan in dakar, where the senegalese president will try his utmost to reach common ground on a peace deal between president déby and president al-bashir. un secretary-general ban ki-moon also plans to attend these talks in dakar, the humanitarian crisis in this region being one of his main priorities. such current events underline the importance of parliament’s timely debate this afternoon and i call on all leaders in question to make supreme efforts to resume an all-inclusive political reconciliation process. the european union must also make extensive diplomatic moves to support these latest developments. just before this debate, several of my mep colleagues and i met with chadian leader and opposition member of parliament, mr yorongar, who went missing after the rebel offensive in early february. he was seized by state security forces on 3 february in chad, but managed to escape to cameroon before being offered asylum in france. his colleague and fellow opposition politician mahamat saleh remains missing. the current crackdown on political opponents, as well as human rights defenders, in chad must end. the eu peace-keeping mission has unfortunately suffered its first fatality, after a french peace-keeper mistakenly strayed into sudanese territory. his funeral takes place today. it will be attended by mr von wogau from our group as chair of the committee on security and defence of the european parliament. i offer condolences from the ppe-de group to this man’s family and friends. in my view, and due to the current humanitarian and security situation, the deployment of the european peace-keeping mission has become indispensable. the united nations and european union have a responsibility to protect vulnerable civilians and a duty to provide humanitarian assistance, as well as security for humanitarian personnel. as they continue their respective deployment, i am proud that irish troops are forming part of this mission. finally, i welcome the commitment by russia to provide helicopters to this mission. such equipment will offer essential reinforcement in this important eu undertaking.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office, as well as the commissioner, for their update with regard to the present situation in chad, and like my colleagues, mr burke and mr morillon, i want to pay my tribute and extend my sympathy to the family of the french peacekeeper who died in action recently. one of the horrors that we all have to face in discussing and looking at the situation in chad, and indeed in that part of africa in general, is the continuing instability, not just in chad itself but also in sudan and the darfur region and in the central african republic, and in other aspects – and, in particular, the outside influences that occur across the different borders that are there. that is why it makes it so difficult to try to find common ground to get solutions. it is all very well to say that we are going to include civil society, but civil society is not given the opportunity to rise and show what it truly wants to see happening, because different rebel forces or opposition forces are there. that is why the issue that we are now focusing on through the eurofor mechanism is not only the stability and protection of the refugees from sudan who have come into chad – over a quarter of million, of whom nearly 10 000 came in the last month – and also refugees coming from the central african republic, but to try and ensure that democracy and the democratisation of the issue are brought to the forefront as well. that is why i congratulate commissioner michel on the work he has been undertaking with the – and i use the word guardedly – ‘legitimate’ government in chad and other areas to encourage them to operate properly. unfortunately, i do not have the same confidence in the independence of the inquiry into the missing, which will take place under the chadian authorities, but, hopefully, with european union involvement, that might be encouraged. my last point is that our troops are now being deployed, thanks to the help from russia and other countries. last week i spoke with lieutenant general pat nash, the operational commander, who informed me that at the moment there are 700 troops there – 56 of whom are irish – and the full complement will be there before the rainy season, hopefully by the start of may. what is incumbent on us now in this parliament is to give our support to that continuing peacekeeping force by our political actions, by our words but, most importantly of all, by ensuring that they have the proper resources to carry out their task as well.
mr president, my colleague has given the figures and i will not repeat them, except to say that, of the 57 000 figure he spoke of, 12 000 of those have gone to the central african republic since the beginning of 2008. we now have in chad a large contingent of irish troops. i wish them well. they are part of a large eu contingent – 14 eu states in total, while there are 21 member states participating in the operational headquarters. the situation is this: we have a very serious humanitarian problem on our hands. i do not agree with those who say that this can only be sorted out by nato. this can be sorted out by eurofor if they are organised – and they are now organising to do it. i welcome the fact that they are at last getting the tools with which to do the job, but let us give them the time to bed in and to actually go about making the place safe for humanitarian aid and support them while they are there, rather than sniping at them with the sort of nasty, political comments we heard from the extreme left here today.
mr president, on a point of order, it most certainly is not the same. could we please have some respect for the rights of members of parliament? to be adding questions together in this way is a disgrace. one question time is getting worse than the next! there is no relationship whatsoever between the two questions. i protest strongly at the way members of this house are treated.
the chairman of the council. - i would stress that it is irrelevant from the council's point of view whether we answer these questions together or separately. it is not our decision, we are conforming to the wishes of this parliament in this respect. i will first answer the question put by mrs harkin. i would point out that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty depends on ratification by all 27 member states. however, it is clear that, as with all major treaty amendments, the smooth entry into force of the treaty of lisbon requires some preparatory work. the slovenian presidency started these preparations in accordance with the mandate given in the december 2007 european council conclusions. however, i would stress that the work on implementation at this stage and at this stage is only technical and preliminary. this work is also purely provisional and preliminary, as long as the ratification process is ongoing and not completed. many aspects of the implementation of the lisbon treaty will only be fully addressed once it enters into force. there are also many cases where certain aspects of the implementation of a contract can only be dealt with on the basis of a commission proposal. the council intends to keep parliament informed of progress and will cooperate closely with parliament on all aspects of the preparations for the implementation of the lisbon treaty which are in the interest of both institutions. in the second part i will answer the question put by the honourable member, mr mitchell. the answer is no, the council has not yet discussed who would become president of the council of the european union, or more precisely, who would become president of the european council. this was not discussed by the council. i would add the presidency's opinion: he did not discuss it because, in the opinion of the presidency, the time for such a thing had not yet come.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for the answer. i think what you said to me is that this is an ongoing process and there may be areas of clarification that need to be sorted out. in the context of clarification, i would like to know what your view is on the production of an official consolidated text from the council because i have written to a number of heads of state and quite a number have replied to me – the spanish prime minister, the ministers for europe in germany and bulgaria – with regard to the need for a consolidated text. in fact parliament voted for it just three weeks ago and commissioner margot wallström, in this very house, said that we need a consolidated text as soon as possible. i just wonder what your views on that are.
first of all can i say that, if the council has difficulty in getting the consolidated text, the institute of european affairs in dublin will gladly give them a copy in english. secondly, from the reply given by the president-in-office to my question, i would like to ask him whether it is clear that there are no candidates, that there is no short list and no long list for the job of president of the european council, that this is something that will be decided some time after the lisbon treaty is approved – if it is approved – and that this is in the distant future. is that the situation?
president-in-office, i might suggest that there could be a wish list among potential candidates – an unofficial one which we have not yet seen. however, on the substantive issue, i am glad you are preparing; you are not predicting the outcome, but you are hoping, as i am, that it will be positive and that the lisbon treaty will be ratified. there is a notion among the ‘no’ campaign in ireland that this is a self-amending treaty, which it is not, and i would like you to perhaps state very clearly to those of us in ireland who are out there on the campaign trail that this treaty and future changes to it will respect the ratification process of all member states.
perhaps i was too speedy. in ireland, the ‘no’ campaign are propagating the mistruth that if we support this treaty there will be no future referendums in ireland on further treaties, should we need them. and, in the next 50 years, who knows what we will need to vote on? i am very clearly of the view – as many in this house are – that voting ‘yes’ to lisbon will do no such thing and that there will always be respect for the ratification process of member states. i would like you, perhaps in your position, to confirm that.
a uachtaráin, tuigim nach bhfuil an tuachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle in ann freagra a thabhairt dom, ach ag an am céanna is léir go bhfuil sé seo ag dul chun leadráin. nach dtuigeann na húdaráis agus na rialtais sna stáit aontaithe agus i gceanada go bhfuil réiteach againn san aontas eorpach? réiteach praiticiúil, réiteach simplí agus réiteach éifeachtach. ba mhaith liom a fháil amach ón gcoimisiún nó ón uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle, cén fáth nach nglacann na stáit aontaithe agus ceanada leis an réiteach seo? eascraíonn sé seo go léir ó ionsaí 9/11 ar na stáit aontaithe. is beart slándála é. agus tá sé an-deacair a thuiscint cén fáth nach bhfuilimid in ann an réiteach seo a ghlacadh ar fud an domhain go léir.
mr president, i know time is short, but i think it is interesting that the landscape has changed since i tabled this question, and i welcome the fact that the president-in-office has updated us with great detail about his particular and obvious concerns about the region. could i just ask him, specifically in relation to the eu mission to kosovo, which is unique and quite untested at this stage: can you assure us that we learn lessons from this intervention and will be ready to offer similar support to other countries in the region if and when we are invited to do so?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is a funny old world. on the one hand, in a health report we are trying to figure out how to prise our children from the computers and make them go outside and run around to play and, on the other hand, we are trying to coax our elderly to sit at the computer and use it. but, seriously, computers have a great deal to offer elderly people, especially for rural dwellers or those whose health tends to isolate them. but, for old people to be able to join the it community, technology must be first of all easy to use, affordable, accessible to all and low maintenance. with an increasing number of old people in europe, developing elderly-friendly technologies can improve their quality of life and help them to live independently for longer. developing computers for the elderly is certainly a great business idea. while they may lack some technical skills, they have plenty of time to use computers and a desire to keep in touch with others. they are a market waiting to happen.
mr president, many women in prison have a background of violence and abuse, which can make it difficult for them to create stable relationships – which in the end is truly what they need. our goal should not only be the social integration of prisoners, but their personal development. and here, of course, comes the issue of children. separation of a mother and her baby in prison often occurs just hours after birth. this will immediately have an impact on any chance for a wholesome relationship between the two. in order to ultimately create that special mother-child bond, it is necessary for both to grow together. and the only way in which two will grow together in a healthy and normal way is by keeping them together wherever possible and creating a supported and secure environment for them to live in. to separate a mother and baby is to set their relationship up for failure. why would we do this, when what most of these women need most is a stable, loving relationship in their life?
mr president, it is amazing that 200 million children around the world can be described as child labourers. this is totally unacceptable practice. the international community must work in a more concerted manner to ensure that international codes of practice to combat child labour are rigorously enforced in all countries round the world. this must be a key issue in the context of eu development aid policies at all times. the eu must work more closely with the united nations, unicef, the world bank, the international labour organisation, donors and ngos to introduce the correct strategies to ensure that uniform laws are in place to stop this inhumane practice of child labour. a multidimensional approach is needed if child labour is to be effectively tackled around the world. enforced social protection measures and changes to the labour market rules are needed. child labour and education issues are inextricably linked. children denied access to education are more likely to be engaged in child labour. the european union, as the largest donor in the world of development aid, must continue to work aggressively to ensure that the millennium development goals are met by 2015, including the targets set by the international community relating to availability of education to all children in the world.
mr president, this is a report on gender equality and women’s empowerment in developing cooperation. why, then, are the socialists, liberals and some others preparing this morning to vote against an amendment which seeks information on discrimination against females and which starts in the womb? an amendment in my name and that of mr deva and ms belohorská calls on the commission to ask all of the union’s partners around the world, both governments and ngos, to undertake a permanent gender analysis of all abortions and to regularly report the findings to parliament. perhaps mr hutchinson might tell us what is so terrible about getting that information? parliament is, this morning, planning to look the other way by voting down this amendment, yet in some countries a strong preference for sons has led to the elimination of millions of girls through parental sex selection. baby girls also die through deliberate neglect and starvation. according to the unfpa, in asia alone, at least 60 million girls are ‘missing’. in some countries it is reported that sex selection is more common in cities, where technologies such as amniocentesis and ultrasound are readily available and open to misuse. in others it occurs more commonly in rural areas where, according to unfpa, the preference for sons is strong. daughters are in some countries seen as an economic liability and, according to unfpas, the sex ratio at birth, although it is slightly higher, becomes more accentuated because of this. the shortage of women and girls in some asian countries has potentially alarming social repercussions, including increased demand for trafficking in women, whether for marriage or for sex work, and the worsening of their status overall. those are the words of the unfpa, not mine. what is parliament’s position? to look the other way. throughout history, majorities have got it wrong, for example in austria and germany in the 1930s. how could a supposedly reflective body like the european parliament do such an injustice as to vote down that amendment? we are simply seeking information ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, we are discussing gender equality and women’s empowerment and development cooperation. i am increasingly saddened by the fact that every time we have a debate around these issues, it descends into a very intolerant debate around sexual health and reproductive rights for women. it is a tragedy. it is one of the ongoing tragedies in this parliament that we cannot see the bigger picture about the importance of education and micro-credit. i will not be supporting most of the amendments tabled by some of my colleagues. it is not that i am not concerned. it is not that i am not concerned about the rate of sex selection that disposes of female foetuses in china and everywhere else. of course we all have concerns about what is going on there. it is because, truly, i am not convinced that the motives for putting down these amendments are in what the amendment actually says. if our colleagues were against abortion i would respect them putting down a motion against abortion because i think sex selection of male foetuses to them is as much of a concern as female foetuses ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak on this because, in the heat of the debate, i think i want to bring matters down to a more practical level. the reality is stated in the explanatory statement, for example in africa, where women make up 52% of the population but perform 75% of the agricultural work and produce and market up to 80% of food. i think the role of women in development in terms of food production is often ignored. but i do take exception to the paragraph in the explanatory statement, which is historic and not up to date, in relation to a comment it makes about the common agricultural policy, which i absolutely disagree with. europe is the largest importer of produce from the developing world. we have the everything but arms agreement and we will soon, perhaps, have a world trade agreement. but i think we need, as the world bank says, to invest again in agriculture and food production, and we need to do that through women.
in writing. − mr president, i am all in favour of gender equality and empowering women and i would have liked to support this positive report. sadly, this report, like many others on women and children, has been used to promote abortion under sexual and reproductive rights. as the majority of my colleagues have voted to include a number of amendments on sexual and reproductive rights, i found myself unable to vote in favour of this report.
madam president, i would like to say a few words on the implementation of the habitats directive in ireland, with particular reference to turf-cutting on raised bogs. irish turf-cutters and bog owners are now being asked to cease cutting turf for personal use. this situation has arisen because of the unrestricted industrial and commercial turf-cutting right across the eu, which has resulted in virtually all of europe’s raised bogs being destroyed. it is vitally important to understand that for many irish people, both rural and urban, turf-cutting has been practised for generations. these people should not be made to pay the price for the destruction of bogs by others. also, given that oil is now fetching approximately eur 110 per barrel, we can see that turf is now a very valuable economic resource for the individuals concerned. in this context, at national level there must be full compensation for the loss of turf-cutting rights, and flexible arrangements will have to be put in place so that we can balance the rights of owners against the need to conserve the raised bogs.
mr president, i undertook a week-long mission to chad in an effort to raise public awareness about the humanitarian crisis, particularly in the east of the country. i also wanted to assess what possible positive impact the eu peacekeeping mission led by ireland could have in this present stage of its ongoing deployment in chad. approximately 250 000 sudanese refugees have crossed over the border since 2003, almost all of whom are located in 12 camps in the east of the country. there are also about 180 000 idps in eastern chad who have moved and continue to move, fleeing inter-ethnic violence. the world food programme in eastern chad is now faced with the daunting challenge of pre-positioning six months of food supplies before the rainy season for these refugees and idps. donor contributions are urgently required to ensure that purchases are completed in the coming months and that the food reaches chad on time. regarding eufor, which is to provide protection for refugees, some of the members of the french military mission are now forming part of eufor. it is important that eufor is not seen as an extension of the french operations in chad.
madam president, according to the commission, the aim of this proposal is to serve the objectives of the common fisheries policy and to allow the community to better ensure compliance with its international obligations. the community fishing fleet is active in the territorial waters of around 20 countries under the scope of bilateral agreements. but as we seek to manage our fisheries sustainably by limiting fishing in the european community waters, we should be careful not to export the problem of over-fishing by handing out authorisations for vessels to freely exploit waters of third countries. as i pointed out to commissioner borg only last month, we must pay particular attention to our international moral obligations to africa. unsustainable exploitation of marine resources in africa’s oceans on a massive scale is causing the collapse of fisheries, the loss of critical ecosystems and the extinction of marine wild life. a large part of the problem is unreported illegal and unregulated fishing by the eu and other fishing companies. in 2005 alone an estimated 40% of fish were caught without licence or in violation of regulations in the waters of guinea-bissau.
madam president, i would like to thank ms attwooll for her work and welcome this report as it has initiated a much-needed debate on alternative management measures. i strongly agree with the report when it points out that the current fisheries management systems within the eu, specifically in the area of tacs and quotas, do not provide an answer to our problems, and that it is necessary to hold a wide-ranging debate. in its green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, the commission states that: ‘alternative management mechanisms can play a significant complementary role in community fisheries management.’ however, i would venture to suggest that alternative management measures should and must play a compulsory role in the future, as we need to take on board a range of factors, including climate change and up-to-date marine and fisheries research based on sound science. as i pointed out in my now redundant opinion of the committee on fisheries for the report by the temporary committee on climate change, i have no doubt that climate change will impact on eu fisheries regulations, as allocations of quotas based on historic catch patterns will need to be revised as a result of the shifting distribution of fish stocks. furthermore, fisheries management will have to be increasingly based on adaptive approaches as historical data will be less valuable. as climate change and other factors increasingly impact on our fish stocks, our management will need the necessary flexibility, based on sound peer-reviewed science, to adapt to the new conditions and ensure sustainability of resources.
mr president, climate change is a challenge to us all. we must remember that we share this world not just with people today, but with those who come in the future. however, if our policies are going to be effective, we must distinguish between man-made and natural climate change. the first is the effect of our activities; the other is a natural process. our landscapes, soils and river systems are all the result of natural and ongoing climate change. man-made climate change is inexcusable. the response to it is change – change of fuels, change of consumption and change of heart. making the distinction is not to say that natural climate change is not a worry, but the answer to it is adaptation. archaeologists tell us that, in the past, when the climates changed, people who could adapted and people who could not perished. today we humans have burrowed deep. our homes and cities are cemented into the earth’s crust. our habits and habitats have become inflexible. having an ice age or an era of heat is just not on our agenda at the moment: ‘please come back in an eon or so.’ the response to natural climate change is long-sighted planning, intelligent preparation and common sense. do not build on flood plains. plant deciduous forests. shore up endangered coastlines. we must balance our approach to climate change between change and adaptation, between man-made and natural, and use our funds appropriately so that they will be effective.
mr president, could i suggest that we stop beating ourselves up over climate change and blaming each sector as if one is more guilty than the other? in particular this impression comes through about the contribution made by agriculture. europe is powerless on its own to do anything about climate change, but it can provide much-needed leadership. we need global coordinated action, and that is recognised. let me deal specifically with the debate around agriculture. it contributes to climate change but it is also affected by it: that has been stated already. however, it is important to remember that agriculture produces food and without food we are not going very far. if you look at global demand for food it is set to increase by 50% in 20 years, but agriculture can, through carbon sequestration, anaerobic digestion, forestry planting – and i think that is the key – and wind energy, contribute to this debate. in terms of the irish situation we have actually reduced our emissions from agriculture by 3% since 1990, but look at what has happened to transport, where emissions are up by 163%. for industry the figure is 23%, and for energy 32%. the danger of targeting agriculture is that we will reduce cattle numbers and reduce emissions in europe, but we will transfer production elsewhere and make absolutely no difference. so we do need to be careful on this. traditional practices, like digging your garden in the autumn and leaving it over winter, are now a no-no. well, i am guilty because i still do it. let us be sensible in this debate. let us do the research and development so that we do not go backwards, but go forward with positive solutions. look at india. it has 17% of the world population but only contributes to 4% of global greenhouse emissions. it has got to develop to look after its poor people. it will contribute to the debate on climate change but it can only do it in a way that recognises its real present situation. finally, can i say that the lisbon treaty, for the first time, gives us some hope for a global action on climate change, with europe providing leadership. on that basis i hope that the irish population turn out and vote overwhelmingly ‘yes’ to the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, firstly i would like to point out that some colleagues and i originally tabled a number of amendments to this dossier specifically addressing key issues such as the effect of climate change on biodiversity and the havoc it is already wreaking in the developing world, both of which are issues which must be dealt with without further hesitation. the eu’s credibility on climate change policies and our claims of being at the heart of any international agreement on emissions trading post-2012 will depend on our political willingness to put our money where our collective mouth is when it comes to earmarking the revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances, and this could be up to eur 40 billion per annum. generous funding for technology transfer, adaptation and mitigation measures and others will be a measure of our acceptance of our historic responsibility towards third countries, those most likely to bear the brunt of climate change, including adverse weather, desertification, coastal flooding and serious water shortages. on this point, the legislation on the eu emissions trading scheme, for which i am rapporteur, must include some political direction on auction revenues, which will test the european council’s commitment, resolve and understanding on the 2°c target and, might i say, its understanding of the serious global impact of climate change, as we strive to create low-carbon economies throughout the eu, as our contribution to a global deal in copenhagen.
in writing. − i completely support tibet in this situation. however, i could not support this motion for a resolution, as an amendment to respect the ‘one china’ policy principle was passed by the majority of my colleagues. i do not support this particular amendment, as the ‘one china’ policy threatens taiwan as well as tibet. i have in the past called for a boycott of the beijing olympics on the basis of human rights.
mr president, as you are aware, there will be a referendum in ireland on 12 june on the lisbon treaty. i want to raise with you a matter of very deep concern in ireland. it has emerged through the media that the commission, and committees of this parliament, are actively colluding to suppress information. let me quote commission vice-president margot wallström, that the commission is willing to tone down or delay messages that might be unhelpful in advance of the referendum on the lisbon treaty; reports have been carried in the press of a letter that was sent to parliamentary committees urging them not to deal with sensitive political issues that might arise from lisbon until the treaty has been ratified. i want to say to you that these types of tactics are unacceptable. the irish people should have their debate with full information. they deserve the full and unvarnished facts, whether in relation to corporation tax or the outworkings of the defence and security provisions of the treaty. as a minimum – i am sure you will agree – the people deserve the full facts. so i call on you today to clarify publicly that committees will not delay or suppress debate on these sensitive matters, and i would equally urge the commission to do likewise.
mr president, i should like to say a few words about the position of agriculture in the current wto negotiations. i am deeply concerned about the direction being taken by commissioner mandelson in the negotiations with regard to concessions on agriculture. on a number of occasions, i have put the question to commissioner fischer boel in this house, and each time she has reassured me that commissioner mandelson is staying within his remit. however, with the ministerial meeting scheduled for 20 may in geneva, and commissioner mandelson’s willingness to sacrifice agriculture to get a deal – with, i might add, nothing in return on non-agricultural market access and services – i am very concerned. at our last part-session in strasbourg we discussed the cap, and many members spoke of the need for food security and on the issue of air miles on food products and the growing of food for fuel. all of this will have serious implications for european food supply. if commissioner mandelson gets his way and reduces import tariffs beyond what he was mandated to do, he will flood the european markets with imported food. the outcome of his actions will be to severely damage and, in some cases, destroy european food production. we can only do this once and then it is done permanently. as parliamentarians, we have a responsibility to ensure not just sustainable quality and traceable food, but also food security.
mr president, to be reprieved from death and disease through the gift of an organ is a wonderful thing, but we have a shortage of organs. adult stem cells are a promising development, worthy of mention. many people who would otherwise have needed a transplant are being taken off the list, as their own stem cells are being used to repair their damaged organs. also, in a research setting, new organs have been made for animals, using their own stem cells. such replacement organs do not present rejection problems for the recipient. i would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the amendments on equality in organ donation for people with disabilities. research by the disability rights commission suggests that people with disabilities are four times more likely to die from a treatable disease, with organ failure being one of these conditions. we must fight such institutionalised discrimination and ensure fair, free and equitable access to organ donation for all. i also want to congratulate mr derek rowe and all those at irish air ambulance who, despite receiving no support from the irish government, will finally have the first air ambulance operational in ireland by the end of the year. they have based it on the cornwall air ambulance. the very first mission of the cornwall air ambulance involved a person who had drowned and donated four of their organs – organs that would have been lost without an air ambulance.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on my report on volunteering and the contribution that volunteering makes to economic and social cohesion. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on regional development for their excellent cooperation on this report and, in particular, the shadow rapporteurs. i also want to record my thanks to the commission officials, the alde group staff and parliament staff on the committee on regional development for their interest and assistance. over 100 million europeans volunteer – that is an incredible figure! according to the commission, between one third and half of the eu population are involved in some kind of voluntary activity. in my opinion, we as an institution have a responsibility to recognise, to value and to support voluntary activity at every possible opportunity. volunteering is a unique activity in many ways: it is open to all and is freely given; it contributes to social cohesion and to economic cohesion; it puts one of the most important european values – that of solidarity – into action. whether it is an individual delivering meals on wheels to an elderly neighbour, or the thousands who mobilise in the event of a natural disaster, such as floods or forest fires, volunteers can help build communities and reduce alienation. volunteering as an activity spans generations. it is a resource, sometimes latent, residing within communities, organisations and networks. it is an energy within each one of us, but it is only activated when we engage with others. it is, in my opinion, a most valuable form of renewable energy. there is a strong link between volunteering and active citizenship: involvement in voluntary activities is a tangible expression of participatory democracy. in this parliament, we represent our citizens and we as politicians engage in representative democracy, but sometimes we do not pay enough attention to the other side of the equation: participatory democracy. this is where citizens, through their activities, participate in the democratic process, and volunteering facilitates this important process. moving on to my report, it contains a number of practical suggestions as to how we can add value at european level. the commission has a role to play in ensuring that member states adhere to the partnership principle enshrined in the community strategic guidelines on cohesion and to ensure that we do not continue with the illusion of inclusion of ngos, voluntary groups etc., as is the current situation in many member states. i also believe that a system should be put in place across all european funds, whereby voluntary activity is recognised as a contribution to co-financing projects. if we do this, we show by our actions that we support volunteers. we should expand the opportunities and programmes already in place to facilitate volunteering among young people and put in place similar opportunities and programmes to facilitate volunteering for older people. and we should, at every possible opportunity, promote intergenerational volunteering. another area where the commission can act is in facilitating a more liberal visa regime, where volunteers from neighbouring countries are involved in eu-sponsored programmes. member states can play a significant role by producing regular satellite accounts, so that the value of volunteering and not-for-profit institutions can be measured. the figures for many countries, including the us, belgium, the czech republic and canada, indicate that not-for-profit institutions account for between 5% and 7% of gdp. policymakers cannot ignore these figures and must take them into account when formulating policy. furthermore, for every euro organisations spent on supporting volunteers, they received an average return of between 3% and 8%. not even the ecb can match that rate of return. member states can also support voluntary activity by establishing sustainable volunteering infrastructure to deal with issues such as core funding, insurance cover and vat exemptions where appropriate. finally, one of our tasks in the eu is to make a positive impact on the lives of citizens and to add value at european level. we can do this by supporting volunteers and voluntary activity in a tangible way. (applause)
member of the commission. − mr president, just two very short points. let me say that even the best-equipped policies cannot deliver without the strong involvement of all those who feel a co-responsibility, and also the need for commitment and contribution. volunteering and partnership are the best ways to ensure that involvement. let me also assure you that i will share your conclusions with my colleagues in the commission. i am convinced that the future assessment of the state of play of volunteering in europe, and the follow-up to it, will take inspiration from the resolution you are going to adopt, and also from the discussion i have had the privilege of sharing with you tonight.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i want to thank everybody for their kind comments and their support in the drafting of this report. i would just like to make one or two final comments. i appreciate the commissioner’s reference to in-kind contributions by voluntary groups and, while i recognise that in-kind contributions are applicable in some eu-funded projects, i believe we need to ensure that this becomes the status quo. i also look forward to commissioner figeľ’s communication on youth volunteering and commissioner hübner’s commitment to investigating and, i hope, promoting intergenerational volunteering. i am again calling on the commission to ensure that the partnership principle is adhered to in all negotiations and consultations in the drafting of eu programmes at national level. this is crucial, because it is a real recognition by the eu that volunteers, ngos etc. are part of the process, not just some add-on, not just there for the optics, but an integral part of the process. with regard to the one amendment proposed on possible vat exemptions, it is a good compromise and i am very happy to support it. i also want to take this opportunity to call for 2011 to be designated the european year of volunteering and ask for the support of parliament in signing the written declaration which has been proposed by members from the five largest political groups. in this call, i am supported by the committee of the regions, the economic and social forum, the portuguese presidency conclusions and very many voluntary groups across the eu. if the commission were to designate 2011 the european year of volunteers, this would allow the eu institutions, in collaboration with voluntary organisations, to work towards common objectives, as i said earlier, to add value at european level. finally in this context, we should encourage the development of civil society and of participative democracy, thereby giving real meaning to the aim of bringing europe closer to its citizens. the promotion, support and facilitation of volunteering and voluntary action, accompanied by the growth in social capital, will prove to be an invaluable tool in achieving those objectives.
mr president, in addressing the subject of the report on organ donation, i wish to pay tribute to my former assistant, james sullivan, who, as many of you will know, died tragically on 10 february. in our office on 8 february, james and aoife, another assistant, talked about presumed consent and agreed that should anything happen to either of them – both young people – they would donate their organs. we were not to know that tragically that night james would fall, and that on the sunday the life-support machine would be switched off. it is a tribute to james that there are people across the european union who now live because of his generosity. for his parents, edna and tom, in cork in ireland, who mourn his passing and who will never recover from his loss, the only hope they can hold on to is that james is no longer with us but that, owing to his generosity, others have lived. obviously, this is a very personal report for our office, and i support it fully.
in writing. − i am dissatisfied that the commission has not given a very exacting account of where money has gone and what it was spent on, particularly in the field of external actions. at a time when the eu is seeking to expand its areas of external, action it is unacceptable that accounting should be dealt with in such a casual manner.
in writing. − i am sorry to say that i voted against this report. i could not support the reference to the lisbon treaty in paragraph 10, which takes account of the new budget procedure arising from the treaty of lisbon.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, just to say i am not going to go over the reasons why we are where we are; the reason the world is suffering or going to suffer from huge food shortages has been well documented here by many people. but it is in many ways going to challenge us in trying to eradicate world hunger by 2015. i think that an enormous challenge lies ahead of us here at the moment. this is a global problem and it is going to need a global response. we have tackled other problems, and we have tried to tackle other problems like global warming at that level. i believe that the only way we can tackle this problem is through a global response. as has already been said, there are many reasons – increased population – and, yes, i think it is important that we increase aid immediately. but we have got to look at a more long-term solution, to try and find out exactly why the food market has ended up like this. as i said, many reasons have already been outlined, but i think we have to look for a long-term solution, and i believe that in this chamber we have the political will. the one group we should encourage to do more about this is the united nations. it should convene a conference on the situation at the moment, and we should support it in any way we can. that is the only way to try and do this, because people are saying the cause is perhaps hedge funds, or people speculating, or drought or whatever the case may be, but i think we are going to have to pool all our resources and all our political will globally to try and tackle this problem in the years ahead, because it is a very serious problem, especially for poor people living around the world.
mr president, i think this is one of the most important debates we have had in this parliament in my time here. however, i would ask everyone to suspend their hang-ups, misconceptions and perhaps their conceptions, because kicking around the cap – beating ourselves up about where we are at – will not solve this problem. nobody thought we would be here – none of the experts in the commission predicted that food security would be a problem, none of the great political leaders ever spoke about it – but suddenly europeans are paying more for food and they are terrified. well, maybe it is a good day that we are at this stage because maybe, in this knowledge, we will take real account of the needs of the world’s poorest of the poor, who are paying through the nose for food at the moment. i should like to make a few suggestions, starting at european level, which might frighten some who have already spoken. while commodity prices are increasing, can i just ask you to reflect that so, too, are the costs of production. farmers use fuel and energy to grow food and their costs are going up. farmers will only increase production if they make a profit, and we have a real problem here. look at fertiliser prices and the trends in that direction. climate change – we have actually pulled back on food production in europe because of it. we cannot have it both ways. but let me go to the developing world. i have on other occasions – not on this platform but elsewhere – said that africa needs a common agricultural policy. that is how europe developed its food production base – that is how we fed ourselves – and we need to acknowledge, as has been done in this house today, that we have underinvested in agricultural research, in development and in the advisory service. i repeat my point: it is a good day if high food prices in europe make us realise that we need to invest in the very basics of civilisation, which is food production, and we need firstly to look after the developing world. so, while i come here anxious about the state we are in, i come here too in hope that finally we might actually do something and take seriously the question of global food security. but do not kick the cap!
i thank you for your extremely comprehensive answer. are you encouraging or pushing member states to use best practice or examples of best practice from one country to another to try and limit the amount of long-term unemployment among young people? i am sure that some countries are, shall we say, more successful than others, and i was wondering whether there were ways in which countries could link up with each other to learn from examples of how it is done in other countries. in the past i have criticised answers to questions, and i just want to compliment you on your very comprehensive answer.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an gcoimisinéir as a fhreagra agus ar ndóigh aontaím go bhfuil, agus go raibh, gá ann díchoimisiúnú a dhéanamh ar na báid d’easpa a ndóthain éisc. ach ba mhaith liom a fhiafrú den choimisinéir: an bhfuil aon phlean nó moltaí ag an gcoimisiún chun go mbeadh deis ag na daoine seo atá dífhostaithe anois san iascaireacht slí bheatha eile a bhaint amach agus fanacht, b’fhéidir, leis an gcineál oibre atá san iascaireacht? mar is beag seans eile a bhíonn ag daoine mar seo fostaíocht a bhaint amach de bharr gur chaith siad a saol ar an bhfarraige.
member of the commission. − as you know, we have taken measures. we have the examples of italy and france – and portugal – which have taken unilateral measures to prevent the importation of affected animals. as a result of the extra measures taken, both countries are now withdrawing the unilateral measures they have taken in the past. we are watching the situation very closely and we shall take further measures if we feel that we have to.
member of the commission. − as you know, the eu has had in place for a number of years a very effective import policy for beef coming from brazil. brazilian beef destined for the eu is only authorised from territories which are considered to be free from foot-and-mouth disease. currently, these territories are located in six brazilian states: espírito santo, goiás, mato grosso, minas gerais, rio grande do sul and santa catarina. bovine animals whose meat is destined for the eu market must have remained within an authorised territory for at least a 90-day residency period. in addition, there is a minimum 40-day residency period prior to slaughter within a holding. at the slaughterhouse, the bovine animals cannot come into contact with other animals that do not comply with the above conditions and have to undergo an ante-mortem health inspection and show no clinical signs of disease 24 hours prior to slaughter. only fresh beef can be exported to the eu and the beef itself must have been deboned and matured to ensure inactivation of the fmd virus, should it still be present despite all the previously mentioned measures. however, a commission inspection in november 2007 identified serious instances of non-compliance with regard to holding registration, animal identification and movement control and a failure on the part of brazil to respect previous commitments to take the appropriate corrective measures. consequently, the commission adopted measures in january this year which restricted imports of brazilian beef to holdings meeting a number of additional requirements. these additional requirements include the full identification and registration of all animals in the national brazilian system for bovine animals. in addition, the holdings have to be placed under the effective control of the brazilian veterinary services and regularly inspected by the brazilian authorities.
i too welcome the commissioner. perhaps my question is a little unfair, because it has a historical perspective. but from your predecessor, commissioner kyprianou, i received a reply with regard to the food and veterinary report about six months ago. his response was that the preliminary conclusions of the report did not justify an immediate change of eu policy vis-à-vis brazil. just literally two or three months before the ban was imposed, the food and veterinary officials were insisting in the agriculture committee and elsewhere that the problems were not really of a significant nature. yet, within two or three months, the ban was imposed, and now we are just importing from 1% of the original number of farms. my question is: did it take the irish farmers association report to prompt the fvo to look much closely at the situation, and did it take that to cause the commission to act?
i would like to thank the commissioner for her response and welcome her to her first question time in the european parliament. obviously, you are very engaged and delighted with the response you are getting. my supplementary concerns the fact that, at your hearing in parliament before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, you made the point that food safety is one of our key concerns, but that we also have to be fair to our trading partners. however, i believe that we should be fair not just with the regulations that apply to european farmers and food producers, but to those who are importing into the european union as well and that the same regulations should apply. how do we go about guaranteeing that the food supply is secure and safe to the same standards that european producers are meant to meet, in particular with regard to beef from brazil?
commissioner, welcome. your last statement troubles me a little, because the experience of irish farmers, european farmers, when they are visited by inspectors from the commission, is not one of great assistance but of inspection and checking. i get the impression that our officials at commission level are holding the hands of and assisting the brazilians to meet the standards. i wish the same would apply when it comes to our own producers. my second question is: what efforts is brazil making to raise its game, and can you envisage – and, if so, when – a return, as i am sure the brazilians wish, to the levels of beef they were previously sending to europe? i know you are new to the job, but do you believe that their standards, should they ever reach them, are equivalent to ours, given that they only require 90 days and 40 days? we tag from birth right through to slaughter.
i join in the welcome to commissioner vassiliou here on her first day taking questions. it is nice to have her with us. thank you for your reply. health care was exempted from the services directive originally for very good reasons, because we wanted a health services directive. we have already waited far too long. i am not quite sure what message the shuffling around the different desks in the commission is sending to us. is it a concern with too much privatisation? is it a concern that we might run down health services in member states? there are already major discrepancies in competences in this area and differences in standards, and under the single market patients are entitled, as the ecj has decided, to travel for treatment if they cannot reasonably access treatment in their own member state. what exactly has caused the delay to date, commissioner?
you may not be able to address this immediately, but perhaps you could come back to me. there are some comments in relation to the lisbon treaty about claims being made by the ‘no’ campaign in ireland that the treaty will push privatisation of health care and trading of services. i would appreciate it if you would come back to me with clarification on that point.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, recently, in the rüffert case, a polish company paid 53 workers only 46% of the agreed wage for the trade in germany. the polish contractor was prosecuted; they responded by taking the case to court, and the ecj recently voted in favour of the polish subcontractor. not long ago, mr john monks, the president of the european trade union confederation, speaking in a hearing in the committee on employment and social affairs about an earlier case – the laval case – and warning of future cases, said that ‘we have been told that our right to strike is fundamental, but not as fundamental as the free movement of services’. the trade union movement is rendered powerless by these rulings. the services directive and the posting of workers directive represent a direct threat to everything that has been gained in workers’ rights in the last 30 years. there have been three cases – laval, viking and now rüffert – and a body of judicial interpretation is building that renders contracts meaningless, unions impotent and fairness of wages an empty term. as mr monk stated in the hearing on laval, we need a protective protocol in the lisbon treaty or face social dumping in the future.
mr president, at the moment in ireland we are debating the pros and cons of the lisbon treaty and there are conflicting interpretations of the recent rulings from the court of justice and their implications for the protection of workers and workers’ rights. while i know we do not have a final ruling on the laval case, i would ask the commissioner to briefly outline his reaction to the situation and his views as to how the transposition and implementation of the posting of workers directive in sweden in particular has impacted on the judgment on the laval case. a previous speaker, mr andersson, made the very valid point that, if a woman was paid 46% of what a man was paid for doing the same work in the same country, it would be considered as discrimination. yet this seems to be sanctioned by the courts when it comes to workers from different countries doing the same work in the same country. again, i would like the commissioner’s comments as to how the transposition and implementation of the directive impacted on this situation. finally, i listened very carefully to what the commissioner said when he spoke about guaranteeing the rights of workers and combating social dumping, but i am not entirely satisfied that his proposals and suggestions will accomplish that aim, and i look forward to hearing more robust proposals from the commission.
in writing. – the way in which the existing treaties are being used to undermine workers’ rights is a scandal. the european court of justice stated that its judgment on the rüffert case is in keeping with the provisions of the existing treaties. the lisbon treaty will do nothing to improve this situation. protection of vulnerable workers throughout the european union should have been secured in the negotiations on the treaty. it was not. the direction in which the treaty wants to take europe is one which fundamentally undermines europe’s social model. in ireland we have known since irish ferries and before that the pre-eminence of the internal market was leading to situations where workers’ rights are being undermined. i support the spirit of the etuc call for a social progress clause to be inserted into the treaty i believe that the only way to secure workers’ rights into the future is to reject this treaty and send member states back to the negotiating table. a new treaty could firmly establish that fundamental rights, the right to strike and the right of workers to take collective action to improve their working and living conditions beyond minimum standards, would take precedence over the internal market.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, china began to trade and change in the 1980s, and it has lifted 400 million of its own people out of poverty, as ms gomes’s excellent report mentions. what other part of the world in that period of time has lifted 400 million people out of poverty? we have to be realistic about this. this is one of the issues we need to discuss here tonight. many other parts of the world have experienced the heat of the chinese dragon. the economic upturns in many latin american and african countries are largely down to the economic rise of china. china’s activities, whether in investment, trade or aid in africa, have grown at a mesmerising rate over the last number of years. the figures speak for themselves. the value of chinese trade with africa increased from usd 2 billion in 1999 to almost usd 40 billion in 2005. as the commissioner has said, china is now africa’s third most important trading partner. china’s engagement with africa is opening up many opportunities. however, it is necessary that we pass a critical eye over its development impacts. the development potential and the conditions for development are two sides of the same coin. without one it is not possible to achieve the other. it is true that the potential for development abounds in many africa countries, but corrupt african governments have for decades shown a disregard for their populations, denying them the possibility to develop. it is the african political authorities that will decide whether china’s involvement is to be seen as a benefit or a curse for the ordinary african person. congo is a prime example of where great a development potential lies. the output per head there is usd 714 a year. the congolese people have suffered greatly. china has entered into a deal with congo to build eight hospitals, thousands of kilometres of roads and rail stations, and in return they will get much-needed minerals for china. but if this can be made to work, it cannot just be a win-win situation. it can be a win-win-win situation, because it can advance the cause of the millennium development goals. can we in europe work with china to try to perfect what is happening, to try to improve the situation rather than simply to decry what china does or the shortcomings that china has? if we can work together with china and africa to improve good governance, then i think we can deliver aid and trade and improvement. i believe that the commissioner was right: if we want to get china to listen to us, then megaphone diplomacy will not work. a big part of the chinese make-up is that they cannot lose face. diplomacy – quiet diplomacy – has a better chance of achieving what we want to achieve. i think that europe should work with china to encourage best practice in what could be the first real opportunity to do something for africa after years of talking about it and doing nothing. if china put us under pressure to compete to deliver the millennium development goals, all the better. we need that competition; we need that pressure.
madam president, china has begun to increase substantially its diplomatic and economic links with africa over the last decade, largely because of a demand for raw materials. chinese trade with this continent has quadrupled since 2001, with a scramble for resources also having negative consequences and perpetuating corrupt and oppressive elites in africa. an example of such a repressive regime would be sudan, where cnpc – a chinese state-owned oil company – controls an estimated 60-70% of sudanese oil production, while sudan is also a major recipient of chinese arms. political conditions in respect of governance, democracy and human rights are very often not attached to china’s dealings with africa. china has severe problems itself at home concerning good governance, respect for human rights and core labour standards. this country seems to be in no position to make its aid dependent on improvements in african standards of human rights, when it does not abide by those same standards itself. nevertheless, china’s policy of non-interference in the domestic state affairs of its economic partners has now become too convenient an excuse, giving china carte blanche to continue its sometimes reckless contracts, particularly on the continent of africa. this policy of non-interference, with china’s lenient attitudes towards questionable regimes, such as those in sudan, is a continued issue of concern to be addressed. unfortunately, as china’s predominantly bilateral approach to africa runs counter to the eu’s primarily multilateral approach, the eu is being somewhat left behind. corrupt african leaders prefer to sign lucrative deals that do not come with demands attached and so the eu appears to be missing out. nonetheless, the eu should uphold its traditional policy of positive conditionality aimed at fostering sustainable development and should not be tempted to nuance its approach to africa simply because china is landing more contracts. instead, the eu needs to press china to adopt more criteria for development in its relations with africa. china is a major power, a permanent member of the un security council and therefore has responsibilities in africa and all over the world.
mr president, the strategic importance of the partnership between the european union and latin america and the caribbean is a very important one. ever since the 1960s, the european union, latin america and the caribbean region have been building closer political and economic ties. the eu is now the largest donor of aid to these countries, and the eu is the second largest trading partner of latin america and the caribbean region. a large element of these eu monies goes to projects which promote social cohesion and combat poverty. together as political democratic bodies we are working on a range of issues of mutual importance, including the following: addressing the increasing importance of energy and environmental issues, including climate change via the eu rio group, working together on many projects to promote conflict resolution, the rule of law, democracy, good governance and human rights, and putting in place a stronger level of third level education links between our two groupings. our political, economic and social links must continue to grow. that said, however, we still have our clear differences. i believe that the eu has made the right decision with regard to brazilian beef imports, and that all food imports into the european union in the future must accord at all times to the same exact standards which apply to the european farm and food sectors. there must be a level playing pitch at all times with regard to the rules which apply to eu food imports – regardless of where they come from – and to eu-manufactured products.
in writing. − the report by ms ana maria gomes covers many important aspects. not least the fact that the involvement of the eu and china should be in the interest of the african countries and people, and that external investors operating in africa should respect social and environmental rules. this is why we chose to support the report. however, we do not support the phrasing in the first paragraph highlighting the importance of the treaty of lisbon in enhancing effectiveness and coherence in the eu’s external relations. in terms of any reform of the common agricultural policy, sinn féin stands for real reform which would allow for farming and rural life to become sustainable in ireland, europe and in the wider world.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, i mí deireadh fómhair na bliana seo caite chonaic muintir an domhain na mílte manach agus ball den phobal ag agóidíocht ar shráideanna rangún ar son saoirse agus leasuithe ar réimeas éagórach, foiréigneach míleata bhurma. ba é an agóid frith-rialtais ba mhó ón gcur faoi chois fuilteach a rinneadh ar an gcéad ghluaiseacht dhaonlathach i 1988 a bhí ann. if anybody thinks that the situation could have been worse than it was last year, all we have to do is look at the evidence: poverty, food shortages, continuing oppression, the elimination of political opponents, the continuing incarceration of a sakharov and nobel peace prize winner, the continuing oppression and suppression of any alternative viewpoint being brought forward. it is incumbent on us within the european union to continue the strong messages of support that we gave in september 2007 to the people who are campaigning in burma. now we are being faced with a situation whereby a new constitution is being put to a referendum and this constitution is being labelled by some as the next step towards the restoration of democracy, yet it allocates a quarter of the seats in the parliament to the military; it forbids ms aung san suu kyi from standing as a candidate for that election because she is married to a foreigner, and it forces those to abide totally by the diktat of the junta. china must now be involved in bringing pressure to bear on the junta in burma to ensure that proper representation is given to the people, but bangladesh and thailand must also be given support to allow them to encourage the burmese authorities to look anew. we must redouble our efforts in sanctions and in taking strong political action, not just at european level, but throughout the world, and in particular at the united nations. all member states of the european union should be speaking with one voice at the united nations to put pressure on the authorities to take action at that level.
mr president, i agree with my colleagues on this matter. it is not only a case of there being no change over the last number of months, but of there being no change for 50 years. there are breaches of human rights on a daily basis. religious communities do not come onto the streets unless they believe that there is something radically wrong with a country. we saw that a number of months ago, when the monks came onto the streets, because they felt that they could get their message across. the reaction of the junta was otherwise: it made sure that their protests on the streets were immediately stopped and quelled, and the murders that occurred immediately thereafter are outrageous. and this government has continued to remain in power. the main culprits here are the companies and the countries that deal with burma: those that are supplying arms and buying its products. i agree with my colleagues that we should be more proactive in forcing china to take a very different course of action in dealing with burma. that is the only way we can get change. we also need to take action and talk to those european companies that are helping this junta. unless we take action ourselves, it is going to be very difficult for us to force change on other countries. i support this motion for a resolution.
mr president, in the light of this debate and of earth day yesterday, i would like to highlight the urgent need for greater understanding of the concept of biodiversity and its implications for our society. it is a very poorly understood concept. virtually all of earth’s ecosystems and their services have been dramatically transformed through human action. the current rate of loss of biodiversity is now faster than ever before in human history and there is no sign of this process slowing down. 2010 – how are you! many animal and plant populations have declined in numbers and geographical spread. while species extinction is a natural part of the earth’s history, human activity in recent years has increased the extinction rate by at least a hundred times compared to the natural rate. within well-studied groups, between 12% and 52% of species are threatened with extinction, according to the iucn red list. in general, the most threatened species are those that are higher up the food chain, have a low population density, live longer, reproduce slowly and live within a limited geographical area. within many species groups, such as amphibians, african mammals and birds in agricultural lands, the majority of species have faced a decline in the size of their population and in their geographical spread. exceptions are almost always due to human intervention, such as protection in reserves, or to species that tend to thrive in human-dominated landscapes. people need to be made aware of their growing ecological footprint, that it reaches far beyond the borders of the eu and that our lifestyles have direct consequences on indigenous people in the developing world. whilst most of us now have at least some understanding of the extent of the problem of climate change, many have not made the connection between climate change and biodiversity loss. indeed, in this area, i think we need to link up the work of the convention on biological diversity and the conference of the parties on climate change. in fact, i would go so far as to ask whether we still need a stand-alone cop on biodiversity. the question should be faced, and i attended the cop last year in new york. yes, i agree that climate change mitigation and adaptation measures, including deforestation, must support biodiversity. i welcome commissioner wallström’s comments in relation to marine biodiversity issues. we must include here cold-water corals and seamounts, which shelter rich and often unique ecosystems. there are huge gaps in our scientific knowledge on the impact of climate change in marine areas. we must remember that more than 70% of the world’s surface is covered by oceans, 97% of all the planet’s water is contained in the oceans and oceans provide 99% of the earth’s living space. i will conclude, mr president, not to raise your blood pressure any further. let us be honest with one another. the goals established in johannesburg six years ago will be impossible to achieve. let us stop fooling ourselves and stop the talk.
my question refers to the schengen rules and their contribution to climate change and increased carbon dioxide emissions. last wednesday i had the pleasure of flying from brussels to ljubljana to be a guest in your lovely country for two days as part of the ppe-de bureau. having landed in ljubljana, we all disembarked from the plane and were pushed into a bus, as happens at many airports. we were crammed into a bus. it took 22 minutes. then the bus took off for what we thought was clearance through passport or clearance to the baggage. it moved exactly 20 yards, madam president – from where i stand to where you are – and we all disembarked and went in the gate. i joke not. when i questioned the nonsense of this procedure, i was assured that it was required under schengen rules. explain please, minister!
the chairman of the council. −the question of the similarity or difference between the lisbon treaty and the former constitutional treaty is primarily a matter of impression, of personal impression. it is a different treaty than the constitutional treaty, but this different treaty brings some similar or even identical solutions. i'll stick to these facts. it is different in that it is not a treaty that abolishes all existing treaties, but a classic method of amending the fundamental treaties of the european union. it is different in that it is an abandoned constitutional concept, no longer a constitution for the european union, but a classic treaty. similarities or similarities can be found in many solutions, including institutional solutions, including functional solutions, and solutions in the field of facilitation, decision-making, increasing the role of national parliaments and, last but not least, of this european parliament. so it's a different treaty than the previous one, like the constitutional treaty, but it does bring some similar or even the same solutions. as regards the second question, i have read carefully the dictionary contained in mrs goudin's question and i would like to point out that this provision concerns union aid, aid for the formulation of international measures to preserve and improve the quality of the environment, sustainable development and so on. that is, the union does not prescribe, the union does not command, the union helps. i think that diction is eloquent enough on its own.
the chairman of the council. - yes, i just wanted to tell the esteemed mr. holm that i agree with him. there are absolutely conflicts between legal norms from different fields, also depending on the nature of the legal norm. that provision, that provision of the treaty of lisbon, which, i repeat, is not yet in force, refers to union aid. this is a different nature of the legal norm than in the case of an injunction. the greatest number of such orders and prohibitions is in the area of the common market. it is a fact that the possibility of conflicts exists and it is also a fact that it is the nature of the case that such conflicts are resolved by the court of justice in accordance with the applicable community law. however, the possibility of eliminating the risk of conflict also arises in the formulation of legal norms, which is of course the responsibility of the european commission, which has the exclusive legislative initiative, in the execution of which, i am sure, it also takes care to avoid potential conflicts.
the chairman of the council. - the honourable member asked about the points formulated by the slovenian presidency. this is the technical work needed to prepare for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, work which must be done beforehand if the treaty of lisbon is to be fully implemented. this work began in january, in accordance with the mandate given to the slovenian presidency by the european council last december. i would stress that these are activities of a purely preliminary nature. preliminary because, as is well known, the treaty will only enter into force once all 27 member states have ratified it. nevertheless, the council also keeps the president's office informed on a regular basis of this preliminary, preparatory or, if you like, technical work, particularly on those matters which involve an important role for the european parliament.
i am pleased that the slovenian presidency is making good progress. i want to raise with the minister one or two issues that are causing controversy in ireland at the moment. i would like clarification from the slovenian presidency on these issues. first of all, in the matter of the introduction of a common consolidated tax base, and indeed the matter of tax harmonisation, could you clarify that each country has a veto on these matters? secondly, i want to ask you about the protocol annexed to the lisbon treaty on the euratom treaty. i want you to clarify for me whether this protocol amends or changes in any way the substance or procedures of the euratom treaty and whether there is any change in the legal base or any implications, in particular with regard to nuclear power.
‘the goal of olympianism is to place sport at the service of the harmonious development of man, and [...] any form of discrimination with regard to a country or a person on grounds of race, religion, politics, gender or otherwise is incompatible with belonging to the olympic movement’ – two fundamental principles of the olympic charter to which the chinese have signed up. while i want the olympics to be a great success – and i feel we should not seek to boycott the games – we should not be afraid to remind the chinese authorities that they must make greater efforts to preserve human dignity through a free and fair justice system, free media, better treatment of tibetans and other ethnic minorities, better animal welfare etc. we must also recognise the enormous demographic, environmental and modernisation challenges facing china. however, as part of this process, would you agree, council, that they must be able to accept legitimate criticism when they fail to live up to the commitments they have signed up to, such as the fundamental principles of the olympic charter?
it has been alleged that if you want an organ transplant in china they can tell you that they will have the organ very soon, and there is the suspicion that they are in fact killing people to order, so to speak. people who are to be executed are being executed to meet these requests. i argued here yesterday with another commissioner that megaphone diplomacy does not work in the case of china. so, can we take it that the council will be pursuing other forms of diplomacy with china, because that does work? will you in particular raise these concerns which have been documented and raised with the council and commission in the past?
i was actually in chad on 24-30 march and met with the minister for external affairs and with the chairperson of the national assembly. i am not satisfied with the answers i received in relation to mr saleh, who is missing, and also in relation to the committee of inquiry. i just want to ask: are the international people on the inquiry and the representative from the eu there as observers? are they actually taking part in the inquiry? my understanding is that they are there only as observers, and i am not satisfied if that is the position. i do not think we will get a true and accurate report if there are no international representatives involved in the inquiry as opposed to being observers.
madam president, can i ask the minister if he is satisfied that there is adequate logistical support available to allow full deployment of the peacekeeping mission over the next weeks and months? furthermore, would the minister agree that the eu peacekeeping mission to chad sends out a very strong message to the sudanese government, because many of the 300 000 refugees stranded in the camps in eastern chad have come there to escape the genocide from the darfur region?
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, níor chóir go mbeadh an talmhaíocht thíos le cibé socrú trádála domhanda a dhéanfar. faoi láthair, tá margadh thar a bheith míchothrom á phlé ag an gcoimisinéir mandelson, agus beidh tionchar an-dona ag an margadh seo ar fheirmeoirí na heorpa agus ar chúrsaí bia an aontais eorpaigh ar fad. tá an chosúlacht ar an scéal go bhfuil dáta toghcháin na stát aontaithe ag socrú dáta na hidirbheartaíochta a bhaineann le trádáil domhanda. níor chóir glacadh leis an tseafóid seo. tá ábhar agus substaint an tsocraithe i bhfad níos tábhachtaí ná aon toghchán. is í éire an ceathrú tír is mó ar domhan a dhéanann easpórtáil ar mhairteoil. ach beidh éire buailte go mór ag an socrú seo. is fiú 2.5 billiún euro margadh na mairteola agus na caoireola in éirinn, ach beidh an margadh seo thíos le socruithe na heagraíochta trádála domhanda. tá an laghdú 70% ar cháin chustaim iompórtála ar tháirgí mairteola agus caoireola atá á mholadh ag an uasal mandelson go hiomlán iomarcach. mháirseáil 10,000 feirmeoir i sráideanna bhaile átha cliath an tseachtain seo caite mar agóid ar chuairt an uachtaráin barroso ar an gcathair. tuigeann an tuachtarán barroso go maith an t-olc agus an fhearg atá ar fheirmeoirí na héireann, agus ba cheart dó smacht a chur ar an gcoimisinéir mandelson. mar fhocal scoir, tá sé an-tábhachtach go dtiocfaí ar shocrú san eagraíocht trádála domhanda – socrú a shásódh gach duine, socrú a rachadh chun tairbhe na heorpa, na bhfeirmeoirí agus ár dtalmhaíochta agus socrú a chinnteoidh na foinsí bia.
madam president, i wish to offer my congratulations to all concerned on this report, particularly the rapporteur. i see – and i am liberally quoting from the explanatory statement here – that the analysis of the whole world trade organisation, on which the committee on international trade is about to embark, is going to be based very strongly on the conclusions of the sutherland report, which, for many years, has been languishing gathering dust on a shelf. then, apparently, when the committee draws up its own report, the commission will have the task of taking the necessary steps in geneva to carry through the improvements that are recommended. what guarantee have we that any new report is going to receive any more action than the excellent sutherland report? will environmental and climate change considerations be part of any new wto package? regarding the point already made in relation to the lack of homogeneity among developing countries, and the position of china, brazil and india at the moment, will we be distinguishing more clearly between different levels of development at that level? and my final point is: will regional food security for all regions be a legitimate consideration?
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments and suggestions, which will be taken into account in the commission’s thinking about the wto reform. the commission shares many of the concerns expressed during the discussion and actually supports many of the proposals put forward by ms muscardini’s report. one has nevertheless to recognise that some of them will face strong resistance, but the commission will certainly promote them. in particular, the commission fully supports the call for consistency between the wto and other international organisations, and the calls for more transparency as well as for an increased role for parliaments, particularly in the monitoring and trade policy reviews. the commission also shares the view that a strong wto is in the interest of the developing countries. i would also like to respond to ms liotard’s comments, which go beyond the wto reform. i cannot go into details at this stage, but i would like to assure you that we already engage with our partners regarding child labour and other related issues, and we support the cooperation between ilo and wto. finally, i would like to say that i will certainly report your comments to my colleague, mr mandelson, to be taken fully into consideration in the discussions with other wto members.
in writing. – in 2001, the doha round negotiations had an objective to lower trade barriers around the world, permitting free trade between countries of varying prosperity. in 2005, the eu cut prices offered to eu sugar farmers by nearly 40% due to the world trade organisation’s determination that it would help benefit poorer countries on the global market, such as australia, brazil and thailand. unfortunately, it had an extremely negative effect on countries within the european union, like ireland whose sugar industry was destroyed, and on the poorest sugar-producing nations of the african-caribbean-pacific countries like mauritius, belize and fiji. now again in 2008, many of these poorest countries who suffered the impact of the eu’s sugar restructuring are now experiencing civil disturbance over the price of staples like rice and maize, which they cannot afford because they no longer have an income from sugar. before we embrace new dismantling measures on trade protection, we should honestly make an impact assessment on the effect that the eu could have on some of its poorest neighbours so that any more changes of this type will not be destructive again.
madam president, the importance of concluding a properly functioning free trade agreement cannot be overstated. eu exports to the gcc member states have been increasing since the 1980s. the gcc is currently the eu’s sixth largest export market and the eu is the gcc’s first trading partner. in 2005, eu exports to the gcc were around eur 50 billion, whereas eu exports from the gcc amounted to around eur 37 billion. the commission expects the trade volume to double soon after the agreement is signed. furthermore, for the first time, as i understand, the proposed agreement foresees clauses on human rights, non-proliferation and counter-terrorism, and this is certainly to be welcomed. unfortunately, there has been a long delay in reaching an agreement and, when mr mandelson visited the region in february 2007, you said, commissioner, that he gave the free trade agreement a push, if i quote you correctly. i understand, however, that he went on the record, when he was there, to blame gulf arab protectionism as a cause of delaying the signing of the free trade agreement. does the commission still believe this to be the case and is this the sort of language to foster international agreements? despite setbacks with reaching a trade agreement, gcc member states are engaging in a positive way with the commission on the harmonisation of airport security regulations. passengers currently purchasing duty-free products and transferring either within the gulf or in the european union could potentially have their goods confiscated because of present airport liquid security restrictions. but, thankfully, a number of gulf cooperation states have engaged with the commission by applying for security recognition under regulation (ec) no 915/2007. this, i understand, will allow passengers to transfer from third countries with their duty-free purchases, provided that the country has been recognised as secure. through this application, they have successfully established technical and practical cooperation with the eu, and the commission should be commended for taking action in this area. such an example of practical cooperation is encouraging for any broader free trade agreement that may come into force later. however, i would like to see such cooperation and agreements speeded up and extended. an fta should also be a way to promote scientific cooperation with the gulf states and thereby support sustainable development in that region. at the moment, there is very little scientific cooperation between europe and the gulf states, even though the potential could be great. cooperation in science is particularly important when it comes to climate change and energy policy. the european union currently imports about 50% of its energy needs, of which approximately 20% are sourced in the gulf. an fta needs to be strengthened in the areas of combating climate change and i therefore welcome the commission’s planned feasibility study in this area.
madam president, i will leave it now, but, as we did not use the five-minute catch-the-eye, it has been practice in other debates that, even if a member has contributed, you can have a quick question that has arisen, so we can use all the catch-the-eye, or at least another minute, if it was there. i will leave it now on this occasion, but it was only on that basis, as there was only one catch-the-eye tonight. i had a supplementary question for the commissioner, but i will leave it.
madam president, really i just wanted to press home the point to the commissioner that, given the prevarication and the delay and the cancellation of last january’s negotiations and the little contact since and the years this has been going on – with one or two meetings a year – are we convinced that there is any real will on the side of the gcc to have an fta? you have sort of just answered that, but is there a real will to have an fta with the eu? is that not a fair question, given the time we have been negotiating?
madam president, given the high import dependency of the eu for protein-rich feedingstuffs such as soya bean meal and corn gluten feed, how can the commission justify the current situation in which even feedingstuffs with only the smallest trace of unauthorised gmos are banned and destroyed at our ports, whereas meat derived from animals that are fed with these very same unauthorised gmos can freely enter the eu into the food chain and be consumed by our consumers, thus causing a major distortion of competition to the detriment of european farmers? a threshold value – as is already the case for the adventitious presence of traces of authorised gmos for the labelling of products as gmo-free – should be applied for the adventitious presence of traces of unauthorised gmos that have already obtained a positive assessment from the efsa or that have undergone a feed and food safety risk assessment in accordance with the codex gm plant guidelines. is the commission planning to come forward with concrete proposals to that end, and when? our lengthy authorisation process lacks scientific rigour and integrity and is the road to serious world trade disputes and, embarrassingly, arises from interinstitutional prevarication on this issue. no other trading block is resisting change in this way.
mr president, with our clear focus on thriving but low-carbon economies to meet global targets for co2 emission reductions as we face our most serious environmental challenge of climate change, a wide range of market-based instruments – including taxation – have a vital role to play, being based on the widely accepted environmental principle of the polluter pays. however, over-emphasis on taxation – with the frequent calling on the commission to come forward with legislation for the same throughout this report, for example, paragraph 26, which ‘calls on the commission to put forward a legislative proposal for a community minimum tax on co2 before the end of 2008’ – makes the report as a whole unacceptable to me, despite the excellent work and the many recommendations i can support. i am firmly of the view that such taxation is a matter for each member state.
madam president, i commend my colleague mr radwan for a very well written report. i hope the bavarian national dress he is wearing here this morning is not indicative of a change in political direction. the adoption of the ifrss in january 2005 has brought great benefits to the european union by making accountancy requirements simpler across borders and financial statements easier to compare across countries, competitors and industries, enhancing the work of regulatory oversight, banking and capital markets. international financial reporting standards are now being used or are being adopted in more than a hundred countries, including australia, south africa and others. i support the calls for increased transparency, effectiveness and accountability over the iasb. the report points to the fact that 17 months had passed before the iasb appointed a new chairperson. this cannot be acceptable. the iasb is a private, self-regulatory body which has been given the role of rule-maker and it is only right that we demand increased accountability and oversight because of that. we should also be careful about calling for the establishment of extra eu structures to deal with the interpretation and application of ifrs standards. why is it needed? what will it do? on the subject of eu-us convergence, there has been great progress made in this area and in the eu-us accounting road map. last year, the us president, the president-in-office of the european council and the president of the european commission signed a joint eu-us statement which undertook to promote and to seek to ensure conditions for the us generally accepted accounting principles and the ifrss to be recognised in both jurisdictions. this is very welcome. with regard to the application of the ifrss to smes, smes are small and smaller. i feel it might be better to make it optional so as to ensure flexibility, rather than prevent its application outright.
madam president, could i have assurances from commissioner mccreevy that the single set of global accounting standards – with the consequent drive for increased standardisation of procedures – will in no way increase the justification, or even the requirement, for an eu common consolidated corporation tax base?
madam president, in this vote and also in the gulf oil vote, i found myself again being forced to abstain or to vote against, simply because the vote is already anticipating the lisbon treaty. i find this very presumptuous and disrespectful to parliaments that have not yet ratified, and particularly to the irish people who are still going into referendum. i would call on parliament and people writing these motions for resolutions to refrain, in their haste, from presuming on a treaty that may or may not be ratified. for the sake of democracy, they should refrain.
mr president, i want to thank mr špidla for his declaration and the fact that he intends to reform the european works council directive. but we need deadlines and we need action urgently if we are going to be successful in reassuring the people of europe, the working people of europe, that europe is more than a single market. i have to say that it lacks logic on the part of those in the epp who blame the etuc for walking away from negotiations. the etuc, the trade unions and workers are the ones who would benefit from a serious revision of the european works council directive. it is a lot of nonsense. if they believed there was the possibility of achieving progress in negotiations, they would be in there negotiating. but they are not prepared to go through a charade of nine months’ negotiations only for the employers then to walk away. so i think it is absolutely essential that the commission bring forward a proposal here without delay.
in writing. – in revising the european works council directive, the commission needs to fully address the protection of workers’ rights. employees should have full access to information on restructuring processes and the opportunity to intervene decisively throughout such a process. too often the workforce learns about restructuring plans involving significant cuts in jobs or deteriorating pay and conditions after the decisions have been taken. workers deserve the right to be involved at all stages in restructuring processes and have the opportunity to influence them in a way which protects jobs and employment conditions.
mr president, it is important when we discuss elections and observation missions that we look at ourselves under the lisbon treaty. how many of europe’s half a billion people outside the inner political circle of the council will elect the president of europe? none. how many of the general public will elect europe’s prime minister, the president of the commission? again, none. maybe we will make more progress promoting democracy around the world when the eu itself embraces democracy. as mr bonde has pointed out this evening, when the president of china asked the future president of europe when they are speaking about democracy how many votes he was elected by, it will be a very embarrassing moment.
mr president, there is, as you know, a debate going on in ireland on the treaty of lisbon as we have the privilege of voting as an electorate on this treaty. but there is also – and today it intensified – a war of words raging between the agri-business sector and our commissioner for trade, peter mandelson, and it is with some regret that today that war of words has deepened and it is almost becoming intractable to separating concerns about the world trade talks from the vote on the treaty of lisbon. i personally believe that we can pull back from this situation, but only if people are given the facts. what i really want to stress here this evening – and it is mentioned that this house is the heartbeat of democracy and the heartbeat of the european union – is that we, as elected representatives, must be given the facts by the commission. i have written to the commissioner. i have now waited six weeks for a response. i rest my case. but the treaty of lisbon is important and it is a shame that these two issues have been linked together.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate, although it is not my pet subject. however, i was rushed from the office when i heard comments made about standards, and i think paragraph 10 is particularly important in this resolution and should be read and perhaps added to. perhaps we should add food safety and traceability standards. i endorse the comments made on counterfeit medicines, which is a serious concern. i have just returned from brazil, and in a meat factory i searched everywhere for a warning sign about anything. there were none: in other words, there was no acknowledgement of the issues around safety in the workplace. in the bioethanol plants we visited, i was slightly nervous because, again, there was no emphasis on the safety of the workers. it is not to denigrate other countries. it is to recognise that we as europeans have high standards, and we need to try and insist that we lift everyone, in other words, to our standard. could i just say that i know commissioner mandelson has heard of me before, and he is in the newspapers in ireland today? if he wishes to make a comment in relation to those reports, i should be interested to listen.
mr president, thank you and congratulations to mrs miguélez ramos for a very good report. it is worth recalling that 70% of the world’s surface is covered by oceans. more than 97% of our planet’s water is contained in the oceans. the oceans provide 99% of the earth’s living space and fish supply the highest percentage of the world’s protein consumed by humans; 3.5 billion people depend on them for their primary source of food. it does no harm to remind ourselves how important these fisheries debates are. sustainable management of our global fish stocks therefore needs to be a priority and we must constantly review how we do that management. i agree with the commission that there needs to be an ecosystem-based approach to the management of deep-sea fish stocks. this in my view should facilitate the use of various approaches and tools, eliminating destructive fishing practices and the need to establish marine protected areas consistent with international law. management of the deep sea must also be based on the very best peer-reviewed science, which will include effective by-catch and data-collection programmes. furthermore, effective research relating to the mapping of the seabed and the natural resources of the oceans, especially in the light of climate change impacts, must be a priority. i am very concerned at the current lack of sufficient data to carry out a scientific assessment of the state of our deep-sea fish stocks. it is imperative that we introduce a ban on discards in deep-water fisheries as this would enable scientists to study with more precision the complex diversity of species being landed. it is not sufficient simply to reduce discards, as bottom-trawling in deep water has a relatively high impact on by-catch and discard species. i really do think that the debate around the definition of what is ‘deep’ is futile and i agree fully with the fao dismissing it as a crude measure and a crude criterion which is very arbitrary in terms of the sustainability of the species and fish stocks.
mr president, i would invite you to join with me, on behalf of the european parliament, in sending good wishes for success to all the troops from the european union member states serving in chad. that high-risk eu mission, sanctioned by the united nations, will have 4 000 member state troops on the ground, seeking to protect and assist the 430 000 refugees and internally displaced people currently living in 42 camps. it includes many hundreds of irish troops who are following in the proud tradition of the irish army’s peacekeeping and humanitarian role. this mission is an example of what we in europe can do now, and indeed an indication of what we could do even more effectively and in a more timely fashion as soon as we can implement the humanitarian aid, the petersberg tasks and the common foreign and defence policy provisions of the lisbon treaty. i would urge you, mr president, to convey our good wishes to the troops on the ground.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this report. there are three key elements that i see. first of all there is global competition for the raw materials and commodities. we have to realise at european level that we have to be better placed to do bilateral agreements and bilateral deals if we want to succeed in getting access to these commodities. obviously the issue of the world trade talks is very important with regard to the long-term developments, but further leverage can be gained through our economic partnerships with the developing world. i would also caution that the giving-up of certain rights under the world trade talks for short-term access to raw materials and commodities could be to the detriment of a lot of our industry in the european union and in particular to our agriculture. finally, as our previous colleague said, fairness is the most important consideration of all. we have to invest now in the developing-world countries to allow them to succeed – not just this year and next year because of the high price of oil and gas, but in 20 years’ time. that should be linked to investment in their countries in education and health care for their people, to stop further problems all along the line.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, ms de brún, let me start by thanking you very much for the excellent work on the evaluation of the peace programme and also strategies for the future. the commission shares with you the opinion that the european union’s interventions in support of the peace process in northern ireland have contributed in bringing the two communities closer together and have helped the development of cross-community and cross-border linkages. the commission also recognises that peace-building is a long-term and multi-dimensional process and we also recognise that peace-building requires a flexible approach and the willingness to allow for experimentation and the adoption of innovative measures. but perhaps the most important lesson learned from the peace programme is the effectiveness of the bottom-up approach. this has enabled people and organisations working on the ground to tackle the problems and issues faced by the communities at local level. it has brought people from both communities together and given them, very importantly, a sense of ownership of, and the responsibility for, the peace process. targeting those most affected by the conflict is important, but the projects dealing with young people, our future, have been equally important in changing attitudes and perceptions. last but not least we have learned that the projects in support of women are essential since the role of women in peace-building and promoting reconciliation is a key factor in bringing stability and durability to the process. the commission also considers that the experience of the eu interventions in northern ireland and the peace-building initiatives should indeed be recorded with the objective of passing on good practice to other areas of the world, emerging from conflict or facing similar problems of social integration. i know that northern ireland is actively working on the establishment of a centre for conflict resolution and they have my support in taking this forward. allow me also to mention the successful northern ireland workshop during the open days in october last year. indeed, not only was the event fully booked but it generated a network which is currently being set up for sharing experience on peace and reconciliation. it will also be followed up by a workshop during this year’s open days, in early october. i shall stop here. i thank you for your excellent report and shall now listen to parliament’s debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur, bairbre de brún, on her excellent report, which highlights the significant contribution of the peace programme to fostering peace and reconciliation in northern ireland and the border counties. it also outlines how lessons learned and best practice achieved should be shared with those who are engaged in other international peace-building work. i am pleased that the rapporteur accepted my amendment, which states that it is vital that peace-building programmes, in particular those involving community and voluntary groups, continue to be financially supported when the peace funds come to an end. indeed, the report makes it clear that government departments on both sides of the border should ensure mainstream funding continues for this very important work, once eu funding finishes. it is crucial that we do not pull the plug on community and voluntary groups that are engaged in this valuable work. that would break trust with communities and would diminish much of the good work under way. community and voluntary organisations need to be able to work to a strategic plan and not on a short-term basis where they cannot plan for the future. in this context, it is also important that those groups are not caught out in the funding gap between peace ii and peace iii. i have written to the commission and received a response on this issue. before i came down to the chamber tonight, i once again had a look at the long list of community groups on both sides of the border who have received peace funds and who have been actively involved in peace-building, in reconciliation and in regeneration projects. the eu can be assured that peace money was well spent and that the added value of volunteer time and volunteer work has made the peace programme a model for value for money. we often speak in this house of bringing europe closer to the citizens. the peace programme was, and is, a tangible mechanism to connect europe with the citizens. as commissioner hübner has said here this evening, it shows the value of the bottom-up approach and also highlights the important role of women in peace-building. this is an example of the eu reaching out to its citizens, acting as a catalyst for change and, in this case, citizens responding fully and wholeheartedly.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá ar dtús go bhfáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo. nuair a bhí tuaisceart éireann deighilte ag achrann agus ag aighneas thug ceannairí agus institiúidí an aontais eorpaigh tacaíocht speisialta agus spreagadh do mhuintir an tuaiscirt chun iad a threorú ar bhóthar na síochána. mar a dúirt an rapóirtéir bairbre de brún, b’fhiú eur 1.65 billiún an méid sin agus eur 333 milliún eile le teacht amach romhainn. tréaslaím leis an rapóirtéir bairbre de brún. ach is aisteach an rud é, i measc na ndaoine is mó a fuair buntáiste agus a fuair tacaíocht ón bhfeachtas seo chun cúnamh airgid a thabhairt, tá an dream atá ag cur i gcoinne chonradh liospóin faoi láthair agus i gcoinne an phróisis eorpaigh – sin iad sinn féin. ní dhéanann ceannaire shinn féin, gearóid mac ádhaimh, tagairt don eur 1.65 billiún go minic. mar dá mbeadh muid ag éisteacht leo, ní bheadh éire san aontas eorpach ar chor ar bith. ní bheadh muid sa gcóras chun airgead a fháil don phróiseas síochána ón eoraip. agus caithfidh mé a rá gurb shin é an rud a chuireann díomá ormsa anseo tráthnóna sa bparlaimint.
mr president, i welcome this report from bairbre de brún, and i would like to congratulate all the people who made a contribution to the report, in particular the shadow rapporteur, jim nicholson, marian harkin and all the people involved. the peace iii programme is up and running, with eur 333 million going into an area, helping the whole infrastructure and community development in northern ireland and in the border counties. i think the three peace programmes have made a huge contribution in bringing about peace in this area. i would like to congratulate all the people involved in getting it together, but also all of the political parties in northern ireland and the community groups who have worked together to make sure that the peace programme continues to work. i also welcome the task force that has been set up in northern ireland, but i think that a task force is also needed in the six border counties in the republic to deal with infrastructure development in that area. it is unfortunate that the irish government has not done likewise in relation to those six counties. it is something that should be looked at because those counties also suffered over a period of 30 to 35 years. we need that kind of initiative in those six county areas. i would welcome the irish government putting that in place. again, thank you to all those involved.
mr president, since nobody else is asking for the floor, i would just like to make a comment. i suppose i am not really surprised, but perhaps a little disappointed, to hear the comments by mr jim allister here tonight. we are discussing the peace programme and not the conflict. like all conflicts, this conflict’s roots go deep and it did not start in recent times, and like all conflicts it is much more complicated than indicated by mr allister. but regardless of those who question the efficacy of the peace programme and indicate their disapproval of eu funding, there is no doubt that the peace funds acted as a catalyst and, as i said earlier, through voluntary effort and voluntary time achieved value for money. perhaps the best thing to say is that there is an end to the conflict and that the peace funding played a role in helping to achieve this very positive outcome.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, my thanks to mr lehtinen and to the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation over the last few months. this report introduces some very positive elements in the area of consumer policy moving forward. consumers can only exercise their rights if they are aware of those rights, and empowerment of consumers in the eu is a central element of this report, and this will be achieved through education and awareness campaigns. special focus will be given to equip consumers with the skills and tools needed to increase their confidence in the digital environment. the report commends the commission’s efforts to strengthen cooperation in the area of product safety and at international level, in particular with chinese and us authorities. continued dialogue and information-sharing on product safety is in the interest of all parties and is central to building consumer confidence. in relation to consumer redress, together with my ppe-de colleagues i strongly support easy and effective access to redress for all consumers in the eu. we know that non-judicial forms of redress are the preferred solution of most consumers as they serve consumers’ interests most rapidly at the lowest possible cost. as i have stated since the outset of discussions, i do not support calls for legislative action to introduce an ill-thought-out system of collective redress in the eu. the commission is currently preparing various studies on existing systems of consumer redress in the member states and rather than pre-empt the results of the commission studies i, together with my ppe-de colleagues, call for a strong role for parliament and the member states in assessing the results of the studies before deciding upon further action. it is not in consumers’ interests to hastily introduce a system of collective redress which would be both costly and ineffective. in all other respects i support the report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the conclusion of this strategic report on the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs is that the lisbon strategy is working. however, the rapporteur draws attention to the fact that the strategy for jobs is not delivering for all citizens. six million young people in the eu leave school early and 16% of the total eu population are poor or at risk of poverty. this is a key challenge but, unfortunately, in the list of people that are at risk we have again lost the opportunity to include carers. carers are the largest workforce in europe. they are not people out of work but people working harder than many people who are in the labour force. when i brought up the issue of carers in committee, i was told that carers – people caring for our older people, people with disabilities and children – are people on career breaks. to call caring a ‘career break’ is to show ignorance of what carers do and the value of what they do. please, commissioner, bring carers into focus and support them. carers are the key to how we manage our ageing european population in terms of meeting the needs of our older citizens and stabilising our birth rates. so make carers a priority. hopefully in this parliament we will also specifically look at the issue of carers.
mr president, i wish to comment on two aspects of this excellent report by elizabeth lynne. i fully support the call to member states and other relevant actors to collect, compile and publish comprehensive, accurate, comparable, reliable and separate statistics on discrimination and then to publish these statistics in a way that is easily understood by the public. in that way, i believe citizens can see for themselves the need for change. i fully support the call for a comprehensive, wide-ranging directive. this is an area where the eu can achieve strategic change when the legislation is implemented. finally, with reference to the lisbon treaty, i was very pleased to hear the comments of the slovenian presidency last week on the 2008 work programme with regard to their response for the ‘one million signatures for disability’ campaign. this indicates that the presidency, and hopefully the commission, are listening to the citizens and taking their concerns on board. this is a very hopeful sign for the citizens’ initiative as contained in the lisbon treaty, but again i wish to put on record my strong support for a comprehensive directive. there can be no hierarchy of discrimination.
on a point of order, mr president, i recognise that i have not been called to speak, but what mr allister said about discrimination against protestants in the police force in northern ireland is totally untrue. the force is 90% a protestant organisation ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús tréaslú le willi piecyk as a thuarascáil mar go dtagaim féin ó oileán mara agus tuigim go maith an tábhacht a bhaineann le taighde na farraige agus dul chun cinn a dhéanamh ar chúrsaí mara. sílim gur buntáiste mór é an tuarascáil seo atá os ár gcomhair anseo inniu chun é sin a dhéanamh. níl muide róshásta leis an gcomhbheartas iascaigh in éirinn ach tá níos mó ná iascaireacht i gceist. tamall ó shin, thugamar cuairt ar mo cheantar féin leis an gcoiste iascaigh agus chonacamar an obair iontach atá ar siúl ag foras na mara in órán mór i gco. na gaillimhe. agus le hinstitiúidí eile cosúil le foras na mara ar fud na heorpa beimid in ann an taighde is gá a chur chun cinn chun go mbeidh an réabhlóid gorm seo a labhraímid air in ann teacht in inmhe agus in ann a bheith mar chúltaca dár bplean.
in writing. − the epp-ed group strongly supports a comprehensive programme of actions to inform and empower consumers in europe's single market. we want consumers to take maximum benefits from the choice, diversity and innovation available in a thriving market of nearly 500 million consumers, the largest retail market in the world. we also want consumers to be able to enjoy their rights of redress quickly and effectively if they run into problems. we support easy and effective access to justice especially through non-judicial means, backed as last resort by judicial remedies. we abstained on the vote today because the pse has hijacked a very positive report by inserting a call for an entirely untested and potentially very costly legal provision for european level enforcement of collective rights. the commission is already consulting extensively on the whole issue of consumers' rights enforcement. it is far too early to draw any conclusions on the changes that might be needed. much can be done by improving existing redress mechanisms, and stepping up cooperation between member states. the pse are harming consumer's rights by trying to divert attention away from the need for more determined actions at all levels to improve the enforcement of consumers' rights, while ... (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163).
, in writing. − this report seeks to go beyond the competence given to the eu by the member states in the area of anti-discrimination. the treaties clearly set out those areas where the eu has the power to propose legislation and what member states can do on their own. this report, which is an own-initiative report, i.e. there is no proposal for legislation from the commission, goes beyond what the present treaties allow and also goes beyond the position if the lisbon treaty is ratified. in fact, any anti-discrimination measures which fall within eu competence are a matter for our member state governments and each government has a veto. this is not for the european parliament. under existing treaty powers, all member states must agree to laws in the area of anti-discrimination. indeed ireland has a very robust body of national anti-discrimination law, e.g. equal status act, and has an excellent record. improving the rights of the disabled and specifically addressing restrictions to goods and services is commendable. this report, however, has gone beyond the competence of the union and as such the fianna fáil delegation have rejected it.
in writing. − the fine gael members of the ppe-de group, mairead mcguinness, avril doyle, gay mitchell and colm burke abstained in the final vote on the lynne report on ‘progress made on equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the eu’. the report points out and criticises member states for ‘deficiencies in the transposition and implementation’ of directive 2000/78/ec and calls for more rigorous monitoring of member states’ transposition and implementation as well as strengthening of eu law in this area. we support the call for full transposition and implementation of eu directives, but note that infringement procedures against some member states have still not been concluded. we strongly support measures to end discrimination, including additional measures, but cannot at this stage support a call for further eu directives in this area. it is important that existing eu directives are fully implemented and the commission should continue to ensure compliance at member state level before there could be any consideration of new eu measures.
mr president, four years later we are at last having a debate on the european city guides. i could not carry down the files of complaints i have, as other colleagues have outlined. europe gets beaten about because it does not connect with its citizens and here we have a golden opportunity – and i direct this to the council – to connect with people who have a real problem and who are coming to their meps for a solution. it is not just businesses that are affected. i have heard from school secretaries who signed this in error and are terrified and who have paid over money. the tragedy with european city guides is that it works because people are threatened and terrified. whether you pay or not, they continue to harass and abuse people. but it is a european problem and therefore requires a european solution. i suppose i am celebrating slightly that we are having this debate and that my colleague, simon busuttil, is going to have a report and prepare information, but i think the council needs to be a little more proactive on this, and indeed the commission likewise. the question is very specific and it raises five key issues that need to be addressed. in my view, this problem is enormous but we need to have it quantified. exchanging information is a great idea but it could cause frustration if we do not have action as a result. we must close loopholes. for example, in ireland, european law is being quoted to those who have signed up to european city guides. they are being told that they will be taken to court in another member state and fined and penalised. they are getting phone calls with huge amounts of harassment to themselves and their co-workers. this is not acceptable. we definitely need to redefine what a consumer is because, as i said earlier, this is not just about business. but i repeat the point. we have a golden opportunity here to show people all over europe that we are active on issues that are hitting them directly. let us seize the moment and let us not waste it today with just words and no action.
mr president, the power of many of these fraudulent directory companies is that they are in another member state, so they seem untouchable unless in some way the eu intervenes. they also instil fear in people, many of them very small businesses without any legal help or advice and many, after being harassed for years, eventually give up and pay the money. like many of the other speakers, my office has been inundated with complaints, but usually from sole traders: plumbers, dentists, doctors, people who have been targeted by european city guide. these people feel as if they are on their own, that they have just made a bad decision, that they got caught out and in some way they almost blame themselves. i find it unbelievable when i hear that the majority of member states do not want any extension of the directive to do something about the relations between companies. i just wonder, is it because the companies that are being targeted are small businesses, that it is not the big corporations that are being affected? i believe citizens need more and better from the council and the commission than they are getting at present. i think the current situation is not good enough and i call on the council to do something about it immediately.
mr president, i have dealt with 19 cases of people who have been fraudulently exposed to expenditure and to debt actions because of european city guides. of those 19, 17 were small businesses that employed three people or less. and of those 17, six of them were elderly people over the age of 60 who were afraid of seeing a solicitor’s letter coming in the door. the reality was that what actually happened here was a misrepresentation under the sale of goods and supply of services act or the unfair commercial practices directive, as mr harbour was talking about. that in itself is a fraud because, if you agree to do something, you expect to get something in return that should be offered in consideration. what actually happened was a misrepresentation as regards the service that was being provided. i think, as some of my colleagues have said, this is probably a matter best dealt with at commission level. however, it would be right that the competitive council and each minister be made aware of it, and would be empowered to introduce legislation at a national level which may be quicker to do than to actually try and bring forward a revised european directive on this matter.
madam president, while fully acknowledging the good motivation of the questioner and indeed the complexity of the issue before us, could the commissioner confirm that she has no intention, nor do her other colleagues in the college of commissioners, of interfering with the operation of the commodities market, which has the potential to do more harm than good if this particular avenue were taken? we agree on the end, but not on the means of how to get there, i would say to the questioner.
thank you, commissioner. so, why is ‘debate europe’ not working? in ireland the exhaustive time spent counteracting a litany of issues – often important in their own right but totally irrelevant to the content of the lisbon treaty – which create fear and confusion, deliberately or otherwise, is seriously detracting from the positive message of lisbon. and knowledge matters in eu referendums. voters’ confidence in their knowledge of the issues involved in the lisbon treaty is crucial to the successful outcome of this referendum, for them to vote ‘yes’, having decided to vote at all in the first place. ‘levels of knowledge of the treaty suggest public opinion [in ireland] is more like nice 1 than nice 2’ – the words of professor richard sinnott, not mine. notwithstanding ‘debate europe’, commissioner, as the commission and member states to date have failed abysmally to communicate europe and how it works and an understanding of its present treaties to over 90% of our citizens, how do you advise us now to communicate amendments to those same treaties, amendments to europe, to ensure the necessary degree of knowledge for the ratification of the lisbon treaty? we have failed to communicate europe; how will we communicate amendments to a europe that nobody understands?
i think the situation is quite clear, that if you have something direct to say to citizens they will listen and hear. we had a debate on european city guides today but we got very little in terms of reaction from the council and i think we need to bring more clear messages back to people about what we do here in the european union and that we are actually here for them, not just to talk about them. i would prefer that parliament’s representation took the lead at the member state level rather than the commission, but obviously i would say that, and i would urge respect and caution on the ratification process in ireland. these are turbulent times and news emerging from the wto is not assisting us in this regard. i think we have to be mindful of the genuine concerns of our voters.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. two points. first of all, with regard to the judicial and fundamental rights chapter where there appears to be a lot of difficulties concerning the negotiations: how best can we help croatia to advance on that side of it? secondly, concerning the distribution of the phare programme money and the management of those monies: where are the biggest pitfalls that the croatia financial management system has to overcome? thirdly, going back to what my colleague bernd posselt said, we thought there was an agreement that this would be concluded very quickly. if there are still 17 chapters which have yet to be opened for negotiation, how can we proceed at the pace that we want to see happening?
mr president, coming from a science background myself, i welcome this important discussion on women in the field of science and technology. in principle i agree with mrs thomsen’s report, which seeks to identify the barriers that account for the under-representation of women in science and i agree that most education systems in europe continue to sustain gender stereotypes. her report notes other factors that contribute to the under-representation of women in this field and regrettably in many other professional fields as well. these factors include the negative impact of career breaks for family reasons and restrictions on mobility due to family responsibilities. i applaud its call on the commission and, more particularly, member states to take positive action on a number of fronts – education, childcare, social security, parental leave – as well as making available adequate funding in order to improve the prospects for women seeking to further careers in or to re-enter science after rearing a family. we need competent women at all levels of society – and indeed we need women with scientific backgrounds in politics also – but i believe we will never achieve this by setting quotas on gender participation. instead, we should aim for more transparency on recruitment, for mentoring schemes, strengthening the networking among women scientists, the promotion of female researchers as role models and of course the adequate availability of funding to encourage women in science, while maintaining fairness and equality. i believe that most women scientists would agree with this. in 2003 in my own country, ireland, a science, engineering and technology (set) committee was set up to make recommendations on strategies to increase the uptake among women and girls of science subjects and higher level-mathematics at second level and to increase the number of females choosing science engineering and technology courses at third level. this committee is chaired by professor jane grimson of trinity college, dublin, an eminent academic in her own right. we also have an organisation known as wits – women in technology and science, which was inaugurated in 1999. we have the wiser workforce project, which is a return-to-work initiative for women scientists. we have science foundation ireland, which has launched four programmes to address under-representation of women in irish science and engineering. finally, these schemes aim to encourage and support the development of sustainable mechanisms and practices which will ensure that women researchers have an equal opportunity to compete on the basis of their scientific expertise, knowledge and potential.
mr president, i should like to thank all concerned for their contribution. i do not understand why the rapporteur has put at risk a second-reading agreement and the adoption of the regulation in advance of the unep discussions in october 2008, where hopefully we will get a legally binding agreement on this most important area. he has put it at risk because of his lack of collaboration during the trialogue and during discussions. maybe the commissioner understands why the benefit of discussions at this stage was not extended to all the shadow rapporteurs or at least the key shadow rapporteurs who showed interest. i have serious reservations procedurally on what has happened, which has polarised a very important debate and report which otherwise could have been easily concluded with the vote tomorrow.
mr president, i would have appreciated it if my question could have been addressed either by the commission or by the rapporteur, but i see that it was not. maybe that constitutes a statement in itself.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i too should like to add my voice of congratulations to mr florenz and say how fortunate we are that we have a man of his ability leading this debate and to compliment him on what he has produced so far. we are often accused of being remote in this institution, of not being in touch with our people, but on this occasion the eu is working for its citizens. it is no coincidence that 95% of european citizens believe in the importance of protecting our environment. over two thirds believe that policies tackling climate change should be initiated at european level. my country, which is a small island, cannot solve or undertake to tackle climate change alone, just like any other country. in the reform treaty, which is a very prominent subject of debate in my country at the present time, the european union has outlined measures which will see the 27 member states combating climate change, united together. the european union constructively facilitated the un agreement breakthrough in bali last december, with all parties now recognising the urgency of action. we must accept the difficulties that we are facing; the scientific evidence is now overwhelming. climate change is a serious global threat. it is going to cost us. are we seriously willing to sacrifice not only our climate and planet, but also our economies? continued inaction will eventually cost us up to one fifth of our annual gross domestic product, but real action will mean a 1% spend. are we also willing to subject our climate to the point of no return? already scientists inform us that the last decade was the warmest on record and that 2007 was one of the top 10 warmest years. let us not forget our achievements and goals in bali. we need to continue to deliver a road map of cohesive solutions to the threat of climate change, ensuring that member state flexibility is at its heart.
mr president, we are discussing here an excellent interim report on the scientific facts of climate change by the rapporteur of the temporary committee on climate change, karl-heinz florenz. i would like to thank him for the huge amount of work he has put into this, and all colleagues on the temporary committee across the house. for legislators to ignore the peer-reviewed opinion of the overwhelming majority of scientists in the field of climate change throughout the world would be a combustible mixture of arrogance, irresponsibility and complete dereliction of duty. we are the decision-makers. we have a democratic mandate from our citizens and on this, the most pressing issue facing the world community today, we cannot be found wanting even when, or especially when, the decisions before us are extremely challenging. i would urge our dear colleagues who could loosely be termed ‘climate sceptics’ to travel this road with us, if only on the basis of the much abused but very important concept of the precautionary principle. yes, the science is complex and dynamic, but with a ratio of five to one of the scientific community supporting the case we make, we must challenge, we must question and above all we must respond – and respond adequately – to the peer-reviewed work of some of our best and brightest in the fields of climatology and meteorology. more than two thirds of the world’s surface is covered by oceans and three quarters of the world’s mega-cities are by the sea. more than 97% of the planet’s water is contained in the oceans and fish supply the highest percentage of the world’s protein consumed by humans, on which 3.5 billion people depend for their primary source of food. as man-made greenhouse gas emissions rise, the scientific prediction is that dramatic changes such as warmer oceans, melting of the poles, rising sea levels and ocean acidification will pose severe threats to marine ecosystems and the fishing community. as i put on my hat as vice-chairwoman of the committee on fisheries, i would urge that its considered views be taken on board in this interim report today. two quick points: it was a serious omission not to have included members of the committee on fisheries on the temporary committee on climate change and, secondly, i regret that the temporary committee felt unable to accept the opinion of the fisheries committee. in conclusion, there is a series of amendments emphasising the scientific impact of the consequences of climate change on the world’s oceans. i would urge colleagues to support these amendments, as parliament’s decision-making report should be as comprehensive and as integrated as possible.
in writing. − the fine gael delegation of the epp-ed group voted in favour of the overall oomen-ruijten report on turkey’s progress in 2007. we support the reforms which turkey is undertaking towards democracy, good governance and the rule of law. these steps are positive both for turkey and the eu and we support turkey’s efforts towards reform. however, we the undersigned, voted against amendment 14 relating to paragraph 16 in the report which included the words ‘sexual and reproductive rights’. we voted against this section of the amendment for the reasons set out in our joint declaration to parliament in the plenary of 13 march 2008.
a uachtaráin, tá beagnach trí seachtainí imithe thart ó bhuail cioclón nagris burma ag déanamh scrios ar chuain agus deilteanna ayeyarwady, áit ar dhíothaigh sé tithe agus bailte ag marú na mílte agus ag baint dídine de na mílte eile. history has taught us that, unless we react immediately when people suffer, their suffering is bound to increase by multiples and factors way beyond our conception. in many ways, the failure of the burmese regime is a reflection of what we have been saying in this parliament over the last number of years concerning the military junta that is presently in place in burma. however, despite our objections to that military junta, we must find mechanisms – however they are arrived at – to deliver aid directly to the people. i welcome the fact – and little did i think i would be saying this today – that the military junta has now allowed in five united nations helicopters to distribute food, despite the fact that a french naval vessel and american naval vessels are in the bay waiting to deliver food and medical aid to the people. it is incumbent on all of us to guarantee that we can make the best possible efforts to assist human beings when they are suffering. indeed, with regard to those great defenders of burma, the chinese, burma could learn from the way in which the chinese reacted to their most recent natural disaster by appealing for international aid and assistance from japan and other countries. hopefully among these different alliances we can create conditions whereby the aid and succour can be delivered. the issue with regard to the international criminal court is a matter for another day. our first and most immediate aim and task, following what louis michel has already said, is to guarantee that we put in place the mechanisms to deliver that aid, to rebuild the infrastructure, to rebuild homes and, most importantly of all, to prevent the continuing suffering of the burmese people.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his work to date on this matter. it is now clear that over 125 000 people have died as a result of the cyclone which hit the southern regions of burma on 2 and 3 may. the united nations estimates that in excess of 2.4 million people have been directly affected by this tragedy. many are severely injured and it is likely that there will be an outbreak of disease due to lack of food and clean water. it may already have taken hold in the area. the policies of the military junta in preventing humanitarian aid workers from getting access to the affected areas are unprecedented. these aid workers and the agencies that they work for have the expertise to put in place a comprehensive relief operation which would bring assistance to a large number of people in a short period of time. will another similar number have to die before the military regime allows the aid agencies in? the combined efforts of the eu, china, india, all of the south-east asian nations and the un have the power to force the burmese authorities to remove the restrictions. it is by working together that we can change the mindset of this corrupt government. in particular we must bring china and india on board to force the change. it is now 18 days since the cyclone hit the region. the international community must continue to work so that every person affected by the disaster receives food, clean water, the necessary medical care and shelter. let us continue to keep the pressure on the burmese leadership and force them to allow the international aid agencies to carry out their work. let each country within the eu, and the eu itself, continue to apply diplomatic pressure. this is where immediate action is required. we must not allow another 18 days to pass before action is taken. the time for removing the restrictions is now.
madam president, china must be congratulated for the way in which it has reacted to this disaster. i would also like to thank the european commission and council for the way they have acted in dealing with this tragedy. it is a welcome development in china that they have opened up the area to all of those who can give assistance; hopefully it is something they will do in the future in relation to other areas. allowing the necessary information out to the world media is the correct step forward. i should also like to congratulate the media for highlighting the scale of the disaster and the assistance that is required. may it also be a lesson to china in seeing how they can use their power to put pressure on other regimes, in particular in burma, to try to get them to see that they also need assistance from the world community. saving lives is the priority in china; let others like the junta in burma learn from this experience.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr medina ortega, for the additional question. at present, the only common standards or common criteria adopted are those relating to security features, passports or other travel documents. at most in this area i could personally foresee further action, but in others i would be hard pressed to speculate whether there will be a transfer of competence. it's not a question of whether this case is a matter of relevance or not, it's a question of jurisdiction. at this time, the competence to issue documents to stateless persons is the exclusive competence of the member states, and the council and the commission have no competence. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr rack, for asking. however, i must point out that this question is not a question to the council, but a question addressed to a member state which is not represented by it in that capacity. however, i should add that, since i have the advantage of knowing the member state a little better, it is a temporary measure pending the introduction of satellite tolling and that the competent institutions of the european union, which did not consider that it constituted discrimination, were also informed of that measure.
the chairman of the council. − i would like to inform the honourable member, mrs doyle, that as of today, 21 may 2008, the treaty of lisbon has been ratified by 13 member states. i could probably name a few. hungary was first, last year, followed by slovenia and malta, romania, france, bulgaria, poland, slovakia, denmark, austria, latvia, lithuania and portugal - that's 13 countries, almost half. the slovenian presidency has already expressed in its six-month programme for the presidency its wish that the ratification process should run smoothly and smoothly during our presidency, and that it should continue during the forthcoming french presidency with the aim of bringing the treaty of lisbon into force on 1 january 2009, as envisaged. i must stress, however, that ratification is not the prerogative of the presidency or the council, but of the member states which have signed the treaty, each in accordance with its own constitutional rules. thank you so much.
my thanks to the presidency. i welcome the fact that 13 member states to date have ratified the lisbon treaty. you will be aware that ireland is the only country that will be ratifying it through the referendum process. we have major difficulty at home at the moment in trying to counteract the various different groups on the ‘no’ side. these groups spread fear and confusion in relation to the lisbon treaty, deliberately or not, often on issues that are very important but have nothing to do with the treaty. can you then confirm for me, mr president-in-office, that ireland’s right to veto future direct taxation proposals will in no way be compromised by the ratification of the lisbon treaty, and that there is no connection between the wto negotiations and the ratification of the lisbon treaty at all?
the chairman of the council. - thank you, ms. doyle, for those two additional questions. i can confirm that, firstly, tax rulings remain rulings by consensus. in other words, ireland and also any other member state will retain a veto on tax matters after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, if all member states ratify it. as regards the second question, namely the negotiations currently taking place within the world trade organisation, i can also confirm that these negotiations have no direct connection with the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. so the answer to your two additional questions is yes.
mr president, i too want to ask the minister a question with regard to the treaties and the ratification process in ireland at the moment. one of the arguments that is raging at the moment is that, after the ratification of the lisbon treaty, countries may lose their veto in the ratification of international trade agreements – wto agreements, for example. as it stands, there is a veto, and the ‘no’ side are maintaining that after lisbon this will change. i would like the confirmation of the slovenian presidency as to whether this is the case or not.
thank you very much for your response. i am just wondering: are you satisfied that the tensions have now eased enough to allow progress to be made? and if they have eased sufficiently, what sort of timescale are you talking about for the necessary reforms to be implemented in full so that the full negotiation process can get back on track?
i thank the minister for his reply, but i wonder if the institutions are to some extent at cross purposes here. on the one side we are staring environmental catastrophe in the face, with europe and the world continuing as normal, while on the other side we move to engage with the problem of climate change and take the hard decisions that our future generations are dependent upon. as the minister has said, in its spring conclusions the council did undertake to move towards tackling the serious problem of climate change and to take the serious decisions needed. but is mr solana singing from the same hymn sheet? he has been saying different things: talking of the need for fossil fuel exploration rights in one of the last environmentally pristine places on earth, and calling this an opportunity. does that not fly in the face of what the european council is saying? could we please co-ordinate our messages? we do have the rapporteur on the climate here, mrs doyle, who will be listening to all of this.
a uachtaráin, ós rud é go bhfuil úsáid drugaí ag méadú agus ós rud é go bhfuil níos mó drugaí ar fáil, is léir nach bhfuil na h-údaráis slándála in ann an soláthar drugaí a stopadh ag teacht isteach, go mór mór ó mhór-roinn mheiriceá theas. a uachtaráin-in-oifig na comhairle, rinne tú tagairt do phatról cósta; ach an bhfuil a fhios agat, agus an bhfuil a fhios ag an gcomhairle, nach bhfuil ach corr-sheiceálaí ag na calaí agus ag na haerfoirt ar chósta atlantach iarthar na héireann? níl ach bád amháin ann. agus tá sé thar a bheith soiléir, gur dócha go bhfuil éire á húsáid mar gheata oscailte chun drugaí a easpórtáil go dtí na ballstáit eile – go dtí do thír féin agus go dtí tíortha eile san aontas eorpach. an bhfuil imní ort, nó an bhfuil imní ar an gcomhairle féin faoin staid seo?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am very grateful that there is a growing recognition of the need to handle and care for animals properly. good animal husbandry is something that irish farm families have as a rule practised and i commend them for this. however, i would like to stress the necessity for animals and animal products coming into the eu to abide by similar welfare standards to those that the eu requires. it is not fair that animal products which may have been produced in the most cheap and cruel ways come into the eu and compete with our own animal products produced in accordance with standards which are strictly regulated; this kind of competition is not only economically unfair, it puts our animals and even our people at danger of the spread of disease. a measure discussed in this house which is unrealistic for irish farmers is the set limit for animal transport. while a nine-hour limit between breaks may be reasonable for land transport, it is virtually impossible to abide by this limit for sea transport from ireland – remember ireland is an island. we depend on sea transport of animals and such a limit would ultimately prevent irish horse breeders and farmers from shipping animals. thus i would like to propose that we focus more on the quality of travel accommodation of these animals, instead of on the time on board, so that we do not hinder the transportation of animals to and from ireland. finally, while i was glad to see the new animal health strategy open to all animals within the eu, i would have liked to see more specific mention of the procurement and handling of pet animals. i think that many of them suffer in our countries. pet owners are amateurs in many cases and are less likely to know how to handle and maintain their pets, which often leads to an increase in animal cruelty, often unintentional. so while we have paid very close attention to the regulation of animals coming into the eu, animal transport etc., we have neglected to look at the plight of pets and strays, an issue often mentioned by my constituents who point out the common occurrence of abuse.
mr president, my thanks to the commissioner and to the rapporteur for the work done. can i just say, on the issue of food imports from third countries which has been mentioned in practically every contribution, that there is a real belief among eu producers that a blind eye is turned to the standards of food produced outside our borders. i really believe that unless we have the confidence of our farmers and producers that we are looking after their interests, we will not get their full commitment for measures that we take within the european union. this is a most fundamental point. it has already been addressed. take the issue of caged egg production: we will shift it outside of europe unless we can incorporate standards in the wto negotiations and at this point we have not achieved our objectives in that regard. moving onto the issues in this report, we know that human health is affected by animal health: 60% of human infections originate from animals and a vast number of the emerging diseases originate in animals. it is hard to predict but we do need to address and have a coherent animal health strategy across the european union. the issue of biosecurity is very important and farmers must be involved in preventing disease. but can i give you an example: badgers are a protected species under the berne convention, so how does a farmer protect himself and his herd against a badger with tb, and who should carry the cost when there is a problem? i worry about moving from cost-sharing to cost-shifting if our concern is the budget we have to spend. so we do need to look at these particular issues: in bluetongue, in avian influenza, in foot-and-mouth diseases, we do need stringent border controls and appropriate vaccination programmes. and we need to really look at those measures very seriously because the problems are increasing. on animal transport, let us base all our measures on science – good science – so that we do not cause problems. let us not react to the emotional part of this debate, but use science as our barometer. i do not accept that large is worse than small or small is better than large; i think all animals, whether they are groups of 10 or 100, must be looked after.
mr president, the commission communication states and i quote, ‘the concept of animal health covers not only the absence of disease in animals, but also the critical relationship between the health of animals and their welfare.’ as rapporteur for the legislation on the maximum residue level of veterinary medicines in food i would like to emphasise that the key to this critical relationship is the adequate availability of authorised veterinary medicines, particularly for what in europe we call minor use and minor species (mums). and the commission needs to address this issue urgently. the availability of an adequate range of veterinary medicines to treat the wide variety of animal species in the european community has been a growing challenge over the last two decades. during this period considerable efforts have been made by various stakeholders to address the problems of medicines availability. despite these efforts, the situation has continued to deteriorate. the lack of authorised medicines poses a real threat to animal health and welfare and the safety of consumers. it also poses significant problems for animal owners, farmers, veterinarians and governments. these effects include animal health and welfare problems if animals are untreated or treated with unauthorised or an unsuitable product, and zoonotic disease implications from untreated or inappropriately treated animals for animal owners and consumers. there are also financial, legal and trade implications for the various stakeholders involved, whilst the lack of medicines may have negative effects on rural communities and agriculture generally. moreover, the current availability problem in the eu not only has implications for the health and welfare of our animals, the security of the community’s food supply, and public health, it also undermines the ability of the eu to meet the lisbon agenda and to reap the enormous benefits for european agriculture and aquaculture. i therefore call on the commissioner to commit to incorporating an urgent review of the veterinary medicines directive and address the issue of medicines’ availability in the strategy on animal health. we should not wait until emerging diseases reach a crisis state; we must amend our veterinary medicine legislation swiftly as the consequences and cost of a major outbreak of a high-impact disease in the eu would far exceed the cost of action now to develop appropriate and adequately available... (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, first of all, i too would like to thank mr van hecke and the commissioner for this report. sub-saharan africa receives more international aid than any other region in the world yet poverty levels remain stubbornly high. studies have shown that aid can and has been successful in reducing poverty in countries with sound economic management and government institutions. if allocated properly, aid has the potential to help millions of people escape a hand-to-mouth existence. however, the reality is that corruption does exist in many developing countries and, while we must continue to promote good governance in these countries, we have a more pressing responsibility to help the many millions of people dying of starvation and disease in the world. we must deliver on the commitments we have made to the millennium development goals. how can we turn a blind eye to the three billion people living on the equivalent of three dollars a day or the five million children in africa who died last year before they reached the age of five? and yes, we do have a responsibility to the european taxpayers to ensure that their money reaches the most needy and is spent effectively. in this regard i believe that europe should look at more targeted programmes, such as the global fund, which combats aids, tb and malaria, the world’s most devastating diseases, which kill over six million people per year. the global fund has been a highly effective organisation with minimum bureaucracy and maximum impact. it represents an innovative approach to international health financing. global poverty is predominantly a rural problem. three quarters of the extremely poor people in developing countries live in rural areas. if we are to weather the storm of climate change and increasing food prices, we must improve agricultural production by targeting agriculture-specific programmes as they can have a powerful impact on poverty reduction. the presentation that professor jeffrey sachs made to the committee recently was a great example of how that money can be targeted. according to the world development report last year, gdp growth generated by agriculture is four times more effective in reducing poverty than growth in other sectors. instead of shipping food aid to third world countries, europe needs to lead the way to help african farmers grow more food by providing small farmers with proper seeds, fertilisers and water management technologies. but of course there are many other ways and, as the commissioner said, many of these need to be country-specific. time is running out for africa. we need to learn the lessons from the past so we can save future generations from disease and starvation. i believe accra is a political opportunity and i support what other speakers have said on that. it is not just a technical meeting to look at technical areas, it is a political opportunity. we have to see if we can get real take-off on fighting poverty. we have made many many commitments; some of those commitments are not forthcoming. we are halfway through the millennium development goals time-frame and it is time that we really pushed to try and deliver on all of these. we have to get aid back on track. we must work with african governments; we must fight corruption; we must improve governance and we have to deliver to the world’s poor.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr van hecke on this report. a few weeks ago i visited the imf and the world bank on behalf of the committee on development and at that meeting i asked what the world would be like between 2030 and 2050. the response i got was that china will be the most powerful country in the world; many of the developing countries will have changed; america will still be powerful, but not as powerful as it is today; india and brazil will be very powerful. never before have our selfish interests and our selfless interests coincided as they do now with the need to assist the developing world. in the past i used to be told that i spent too much time with my individual constituents who had poor housing conditions. my response to that was that you cannot tell somebody who is on fire that we are going to build a fire station. you have to plan for the fire station, but you have to help the individual at the same time. this has to be our approach to the developing world. if we do not do it, china and others are going to do it. it is our selfish interest as well as our selfless interest to do this. i come from a country which in recent history suffered famine, where the population today should be over 20 million. it has gone over six million for the first time since the mid-19th century. we have a post-colonial past. if you look at ireland’s history, what we have been able to do with investment in infrastructure, largely from the european union – to which we are now about to become, thank god, a net contributor – is an indication of what can be done when you give people the tools with which to do the job. i urge the commissioner, when he goes to this meeting in accra, to make sure that the european union is singing off the same hymn sheet. lisbon will give us the instruments with which to play a more effective role in the world. make sure we do it in the area of development aid. it is in our interests as well as in the interests of the people in the developing world. (applause)
, on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to delete the words ‘free and’ from this amendment. the rest stands.
in writing. − the fine gael delegation in the epp-ed welcomes ms jordan-cizeli's report on a mid-term review of industrial policy. with regard to paragraph 7 of the report, we acknowledge the right of those member states who wish to consolidate the european market in defence equipment and improve the global competitiveness of the eu defence industry, on the strict understanding that ireland's military neutrality (as outlined explicitly in a declaration to the treaties) is fully respected.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which highlights the needs for high animal health status in the eu, which can only be achieved by an eu action plan. in relation to animal transport, we must only make legislation in this area based on scientific findings. attempts to specify journey times are narrow and ill-focused. attention must be paid to ensuring compliance with existing transport regulations. quality of transportation, not duration is critical. this is why i welcome the exclusion from this report of a specific journey time. lastly, the eu must insist that our animal health and welfare standards are accepted internationally and that these concerns are taken into account at the wto.
madam president, repeatedly on thursday afternoons we discuss sudan because the atrocities against human rights continue: murder, rape, abduction, child abduction and confiscation of property. poor security continues to be a problem for the men, women and children of sudan, but also for people working in the humanitarian field. this disregard of the jurisdiction of the icc has led to criminals being allowed to walk free, particularly high-profile people like the former minister for the interior and a former janjaweed military leader. we must urge sudan, with all the powers we can, to ratify the the rome statute. i once again adamantly call on the eu and the rest of the international community to exercise moral and social responsibility by taking decisive steps – which include confronting china with the part that it plays in sudan and the arms trade that keeps this situation going – to protect the people of sudan and the refugees in neighbouring chad, and to end this conflict.
madam president, we in europe have come closer to some of the former soviet states on our eastern border. however, belarus has resisted any attempts at dialogue. because belarus is a dictatorship, the views of citizens who would like a more open and even westward-looking dialogue have no legal way of being heard. when people call for democracy or highlight abuses by the regime, they are faced with imprisonment. we must continue to urge the belarus regime to release the iron grip it has on its citizens. one way to do this is to keep the cause of political, social and religious prisoners in the public eye. when history looks back, it is those prisoners who will be the heroes of belarus’s freedom when it is finally achieved.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh comhoibriú agus comhordú idir gach ballstát san ae maidir leis an gcomhbheartas eachtrach agus slándála (an cfsp). tá bagairtí domhanda nua ann; agus creidimse gur céim chun cinn iad conradh lispóin agus an cfsp chun dul i ngleic leis na bagairtí sin. tá níos mó i gceist leis an cfsp ná cur i bhfeidhm beartais. baineann sé le fiche seacht mballstát a bheith ag obair le chéile chun síocháin, cearta daonna, córas dlí agus daonlathas a chinntiú ar fud an domhain. tá na prionsabail seo ar fad i gconradh liospóin, agus tagann siad go hiomlán le luachanna na héireann. in congratulating both of the rapporteurs on their work in this particular area and taking into account our experience over the last number of years, it is particularly important that we are cognisant of the fact that too often europe has spoken with great words but failed to live up to the expectation. that is why, as we look forward to the development of new policies, without in any way anticipating what the outcome of the referendum in ireland will be – which i hope will be positive towards the adoption and ratification of the lisbon treaty – we must remember always that unless the member states, acting collectively, can agree to common positions and to moving forward, fine words will be spoken but action will fail. the most recent example of that was what happened in chad. despite the horrors of what we saw with regard to the refugees on the chad and sudanese border, despite the desire of every member state to be seen to do something, our failure to deliver the logistics of bringing the forces into chad highlighted our shortcomings. when we speak about the future threats, future opportunities and, indeed, the future dangers, we must always be cognisant of the fact that europe is the greatest peace project of all. the work that we do, and what we have achieved and built in the european union since 1958, has proven that acting collectively, cooperating with tolerance and understanding of different points of view is a far greater power and tool than any weapons we can put at our disposal. but that is not to be naive and to say that we do not need to have resources at our disposal. however, we must keep in mind that all member states must act in unanimity in finding new foreign and defence policies for the future, and that if one country says ‘no’, they cannot be diminished or demonised because of that.
mr president, i support the development of cfsp, including esdp, and the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty to these policy areas. this is also the position of the irish government. these changes will enable the eu to develop its capabilities for conflict prevention and crisis management, while ensuring that any new arrangements are fully consistent with ireland’s traditional policy of military neutrality. to the fellow travellers of sinn fein who are propagating misinformation on the lisbon treaty, i say to you that there is a triple lock system in ireland on the deployment of troops: first of all, there must be a un decision; secondly, there must be a government decision; and thirdly, it must be approved by dáil éireann, the national parliament. this is not going to change after lisbon. the current un-authorised eu mission in chad, in which ireland is playing a leading role, is a prime example of the eu’s activities in this area. as someone who has recently visited chad and the eu peacekeeping mission base in the east of this country, i am convinced that this mission will provide security for the provision of humanitarian relief to hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons, as well as protection for humanitarian personnel in the field. this esdp mission to chad is the first time that a peacekeeping operation has been launched by the eu in almost perfect harmony with all stakeholders. other missions with irish involvement have included police training in the palestinian territories, monitoring of the peace process between rebels and government in indonesia, and providing support to the police authorities in bosnia. there have been more than 20 such missions since 2003. there are increasing requests to the eu to provide assistance and support in these areas. the key point regarding the totality of these initiatives is that their purpose is to make eu peacekeeping and crisis management activities more effective. from a national perspective, we retain a veto on any developments with which we disagree, and we retain the sovereign right to decide on participation in any crisis management mission in accordance with our own legislative requirements. this is one of the many reasons why irish people should come out to vote ‘yes’ on 12 june.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank president-in-office dimitrij rupel and commissioner verheugen for their introduction to this debate. in many ways what we see happening is a convergence of ideals and goals between the us and the european union. too often we focus on that which divides us. by geography we are divided by the atlantic ocean, but what unites us is what is within our hearts and minds, within our value systems and our beliefs as regards democratic control and the promoting of democratic institutions across the world. we need to really focus on the core elements of what kind of a vision the us and the european union can give to the world in the 21st century. obviously my colleagues have mentioned many of the challenges that face us, whether it be climate change, the development goals or whatever else. but first and foremost, we must focus on bringing about peace and stability within regions and within areas. that is why it is quite appropriate that the next summit between the eu and us will take place in ljubljana, because in ljubljana we can look to the west and we can see that there is stability and peace in the european union. we can look to the south-east and see potential fracture and potential danger in the western balkans. we can look further east and see potential danger and potential fracture with what is happening in the middle east. that is why i think it is important that, when we do meet and discuss issues, while of course the agendas are going to be wide-ranging, by necessity they must focus on key and core elements. those key and core elements in my opinion should be based on: ensuring that the quartet continues its work with regard to the middle east peace process; ensuring that the agreement in doha of the parties in lebanon with regard to the lebanese situation is encouraged and supported; guaranteeing that kosovo and other areas within the western balkans are given the security guarantees that they require to develop their democracies into a stable and peaceful future. but most important of all is for us to come together to give leadership to the rest of the world, in particular in the area of climate change, energy and food. because the most striking issue now facing so many countries around the world, not just developing countries but developed countries, is the price of food and the difficulties that will create. collectively the us and the eu can maintain a strong position, but can also give great leadership for the future.
a uachtaráin, tá rialtas na héireann chun scéim náisiúnta leathanbhanda a lainseáil. níl leathanbhanda le fáil in 10% den tír, agus tá formhór den 10% sin i mo cheantar féin – is é sin in iarthar na tíre agus i lár na tíre. cé go bhfuil leathanbhanda ag fás, níl an ráta fáis sásúil ar chor ar bith agus níl sé ag teacht le meán an aontais eorpaigh. in éirinn, tá inúsáideacht leathanbhanda de 86% in áiteanna uirbeacha ach tá inúsáideacht i bhfad níos lú sna háiteanna iargúlta. caithfimid rud éigin a dhéanamh. bíonn éad orainn nuair a fheicimid an cás i dtuaisceart na tíre, áit a bhfuil leathanbhanda le fáil i chuile choirnéal. ba mhaith liom go gcuirfeadh an coimisiún eorpach brú ar rialtas na héireann, ionas go mbeimid in ann na haidhmeanna atá i gclár oibre liospóin a bhaint amach.
mr president, i would just like to draw the attention of the house to the conference that is taking place in rome on the global food crisis. we have expressed our concerns in this house about this issue in our recent resolution on food prices. one of the key issues is the under-investment in agriculture, both in the developed and the developing world. the extent of that problem was brought home to me at a conference in ireland just last week, when a missionary sister of the holy rosary, nora macnamara, mentioned very clearly that, when she was involved in agriculture many years ago in africa, there was investment. and then, she said, africa – or rather agriculture – became a dirty word when looking for funds to support projects in this area. we need to go back to our roots in terms of investing in agriculture. can i just say, in the debate on the treaty of lisbon in ireland, that this treaty will actually enhance the european union’s role in the developing world and, in my view, will assist us in meeting the food crisis which we are now facing not just in europe, but globally.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is é an taontas eorpach is mó a thugann cúnamh airgid don tríú domhan. ach ní airgead amháin atá ag teastáil ó na tíortha bochta. tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go ndéanfaí geilleagar na dtíortha sin a fhorbairt agus a láidriú. tacaíonn mé go mór leis an trádáil atá idir an eoraip, an afraic agus tíortha na cairibe agus an aigéin chiúin. ní thagann mé, beag ná mór, leis an bplé atá ar siúl ag na cainteanna trádála domhanda sa ghinéiv. mar ní dhéanfaidh an margadh atá á thairiscint ansin maitheas ar bith do thalmhaíocht na heorpa; ní dhéanfaidh sé maitheas ar bith do shlándáil beatha san eoraip – agus go deimhin i mo thír féin, in éirinn. ach ní muidne amháin atá míshásta. tá meiriceá míshásta. agus den 152 tír atá páirteach sa trádáil dhomhanda, breathnaíonn sé nach bhfuil ach dhá thír sásta. ba mhaith liom an deis seo a thógáil agus fíorchaoin fáilte a chur roimh chinneadh chumann na bhfeirmeoirí in éirinn aontú le, agus tacaíocht a thabhairt do chonradh liospóin – a mbeidh reifreann ina leith ar siúl in éirinn i gceann seachtaine nó mar sin. agus ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil muid ag iarraidh an conradh sin a cheadú – agus glacadh leis – agus go mbeidh muid níos láidre agus níos lárnaí i bpróiseas na gcainteanna domhanda amach anseo.
mr president, i just wish to comment briefly on some of the debate. the issue about educating the consumer is very important. we need consumers to understand financial services, and we need in particular to target young people who use credit cards like they were going out of fashion. but let me just say that those of us who thought they were educated have been prone to the odd financial accident. i mean, hands up those of us who fell for endowment mortgages? i should put both hands up in that regard. therefore, even with education and knowledge, mistakes are made and wrong products are sold to the consumer. i am not sure how long the commission is going to test out the codes of conduct before it legislates. i am not a fan of legislation where none is required, but sometimes we need better legislation that is effective from a consumer point of view. we have a credit crunch now and, where in the irish banking system they were handing out money and 100% mortgages were the norm, we now have quite the opposite with the curtailment of finance. this is an issue that affects all of us and i hope that this debate contributes to better financial services for the european consumer.
madam president, the world’s fisheries are in crisis. the eu’s fisheries are in crisis, compounded by a 30% increase in marine fuel prices in recent months. the fishermen are on our streets in brussels and in our member states. your response, commissioner, is urgently awaited. moving now from unsustainable economic pressure to unsustainable environmental pressure, experts report that 75% of fisheries are significantly depleted and over-exploited. illegal unreported unregulated fishing is a global problem that compounds the present fisheries crisis. according to the fao, overall iuu fishing accounts for up to 30% of total captures of some important fisheries, and catches of particular species could be up to three times the permitted amount. iuu fishing undermines sustainable fisheries, harms and destroys marine habitats and threatens the livelihood of responsible fishermen and communities depending on fishing. illegal fishing also jeopardises food security, particularly for those heavily dependent on fish as a source of animal protein. by-catch, due mainly to large-scale industrial bottom-trawling, often carried out unregulated, illegally and unreported by distant fishing fleets, has devastating effects on local fishermen and fish stocks. over one third of the world’s catch is simply discarded due to inappropriate fish sizes or simply due to unintended catch. misguided eu fishery regulations have encouraged completely unsustainable practices, such as discarding on a massive scale, as it is – perversely – illegal to land by-catches, the examination of which would be invaluable to the scientists. the extreme vulnerability of most deep sea fish stocks to rapid depletion means that this fishery may no longer exist by the time regulations are implemented. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has looked at the possibilities for satellite tracking of vessels, electronic documentation systems for catches and on-board cctv as possible measures to combat illegal fishing, as happens in other jurisdictions. proper implementation of this regulation will require a high degree of integration at community level of the services responsible for inspection and control. it will also require fishermen and other stakeholders to take responsibility and ownership of the policy.
madam president, i should like to thank mrs aubert for this report. the one issue that needs to be stressed is the consumers’ lack of awareness of the problem of unregulated, unreported and illegal fishing and that is something we need to speak more about. as others have said, the legal fishing sector is under severe threat and the impact of this illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is just part of the problem. fuel costs are a major issue for them and we need some response from the commission to the crisis which has seen fishermen give away fish in member states and take to the streets in protest. perhaps part of the problem we have with the illegal side of the fishing is over-regulation on the legal sector – but perhaps that is a debate for another issue. yes, we need a global agreement on this, but we need to start at home and whatever we do, rather than just layer on bureaucracy, which we are very often accused of in this place, we need to make sure that the regulations we put in place are effective and tackle the problem at source, so that we do not destroy both the economics and the environment.
madam president, if five minutes of the catch-the-eye are not taken up, even people who have contributed to the debate can put a question to the commissioner. i have done this several times since the catch-the-eye procedure came in. therefore, with your permission, i should like to put a specific question to the commissioner.
madam president, i do not want preferential treatment but there are facilities for five minutes of catch-the-eye. could commissioner borg comment on the application of subsidies on marine fuels in some member states and not others and, indeed, on an even-handed approach to subsidies? how can this be squared under the common fisheries policy – with an emphasis on common – and does it square with the competition policy rules? we have to help the fishing community who, at the moment, are in a severe economic crisis, particularly with the 30% increase in marine fuel prices. could you be sure to respond specifically to this, as requested by several speakers, in your reply?
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis an uasal freitas as ucht a shárthuarascáil. is cuid lárnach den bhainistíocht mara é cosaint na n-éiceachóras leochaileach. tá iarrachtaí nach beag déanta le roinnt blianta anuas a leithéid a dhéanamh. tá áthas orm go bhfuil ceannródaíocht á dhéanamh ag an aontas eorpach maidir le cosaint na timpeallachta de – mar beidh sé chun tairbhe dúinn ar fad. glactar leis an mbeartas éiceachórais go hidirnáisiúnta, agus is fúinne anois é, é chur i bhfeidhm go forleathan. feileann córas na gcéimeanna beaga do chur i bhfeidhm an bheartais seo. is féidir foghlaim ó chuile chéim bheag, sula mbogtar ar aghaidh go dtí an chéad chéim eile – is éabhlóidiú seachas réabhlóidiú atá i gceist. is rud casta go maith é cosaint na n-éiceachórais leochaileach. ach tá sampla iontach le feiscint i mo thír féin, in éirinn, áit a bhfuil coiréal domhain-uisce amach ó chósta iarthar na héireann. fógraíodh gur ceithre láthair natura 2000 a bhí sa gceantar farraige seo, agus tá teorainn leis an iascaireacht atá ceadaithe ann chun an coiréal domhain-uisce leochaileach a chosaint.
madam president, scientists in the fishing industry now know that the deep and high seas are teeming with life, most of which remains undiscovered. in fact, about 50% of the animals or flora collected from areas deeper than 3 000 metres are a new species. scientists have speculated that as many as 10 million species may inhabit the deep sea, biodiversity comparable to the world’s richest tropical rain forests. they are slowly discovering ecosystems which are extraordinary in nature, often hosting species found nowhere else on the planet. i therefore welcome the commission’s proposals to require high-seas fishing activities with bottom gears to be subject to a permit, and that the responsible authority will determine that there are no significant adverse impacts on ecosystems in the high seas before issuing the permits. action is long overdue in this area and i would like to thank duarte freitas for his report. bottom trawling is causing unprecedented damage to the deep-sea coral and sponge communities. unregulated bottom gear can also reach submerged mountains or seamounts, bulldozing their way across the ocean floor and destroying all life in their path. species may become extinct before scientists even have a chance to identify them. unfortunately, the european union is at the epicentre of deep-sea bottom trawling. in 2001, member states, including our new baltic states, took approximately 60% of the high-seas bottom-trawl catch and in the same year spain alone accounted for approximately two-thirds of the reported eu catch and 40% of the reported global catch in high-seas bottom-trawl fisheries. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission must use the powers it has beyond the fisheries sector to promote concerted action to protect vulnerable ecosystems and our approach must be guided by two key principles: the precautionary approach, which requires us to act when there is a lack of scientific information or uncertainty, and, above all else, ecosystem-based management. commissioner, is the 1 000 metre figure an arbitrary figure? i think it is a question of whether vulnerable ecosystems exist above this figure and not just below it, as some colleagues have questioned.
mr president, the purpose of this proposal is to reduce administrative burdens on small enterprises. the proposal came from the enterprise and industry dg as part of the better regulation initiative. unfortunately, while i am very sympathetic to the idea of reducing administrative burdens on small businesses, i find this proposal was initially ill-defined (mr schnellhardt has amended it extremely well), as it allowed some businesses, such as mobile food outlets and garage forecourt retailers – two categories of businesses that do need to be considered under hygiene rules – to derogate from applying all the hygiene rules. there is discretion in the hygiene regulation itself to allow businesses who do not need to apply the full haccp regime to derogate from it with the approval of competent authorities. the problem appears to be that administrations in some member states are not using their discretionary powers, and in some regions of the eu small sweetshops and even church halls are being asked to apply full haccp rules. it is my view that it is the application of the original legislation and not the legislation itself that is the problem.
i scríbhinn. − bhíos lán sásta mo chuid tacaíochta a thabhairt do thuarascáil an uasail hutchinson ar obair chomhthionól an ae/acc (an jpa) i rith na bliana seo caite. ba mhaith liom tagairt ar leith a dhéanamh do chúpla gné den tuarascáil seo, a raibh mé tógtha go mór leo. is maith gur dhein an rapóirtéir tagairt do na epanna. caithfidh an taontas eorpach agus an acc araon súil ghéar a choinneáil ar na cainteanna agus ar na forbairtí a bhaineann leis na epanna, agus tá sé seo déanta ag an jpa. mar atá ráite ag an rapóirtéir, tá ról lárnach á imirt ag na jpanna le faireachán a dhéanamh ar chainteanna agus naisc a chruthú idir an dá thaobh: an ae agus tíortha an deiscirt. ba mhaith liom chomh maith an rapóirtéir a mholadh as an tagairt a dhein sé don tsomáil mar ‘ghéarchéim a bhfuil dearmad déanta air’. ní hí an tsomáil amháin atá sa chás seo agus tá dualgas orainn san ae agus san acc aird, tacaíocht agus cabhair a dhíriú ar a leithéid de réigiúin. thar aon rud eile, áfach, tarraingíonn an tuarascáil seo aird ar dea-obair an jpa, obair nach mbíonn a dóthain measa uirthi uaireanta, dar liomsa.
i scríbhinn. − is féidir liom lántacaíocht a thabhairt do thuarascálacha an uasail karas agus an uasail pittella sa mhéid go bhfuil siad ag iarraidh a chinntiú go mbeadh feidhmiú earnáil na baincéireachta níos éifeachtaí agus níos inrochtana do chustaiméirí aonair agus d’fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide. aontaím ach go háirithe leis na hairteagail i dtuarascáil an uasail karas a chuireann béim ar fhéinrialúchán in ionad reachtaíocht nua a thabhairt isteach. ní hí an reachtaíocht an freagra i ngach cás; caithfear staidéar agus smaoineamh cúramach a dhéanamh ar an gcás, agus caithfear súil a choinneáil i gcónaí ar iomaíochas agus inbhuanaitheacht na hearnála. go minic an rud a bhíonn chun leasa na hearnála, bíonn sé chun leasa an chustaiméara chomh maith. tá fadhb ollmhór agam le hairteagal amháin i dtuarascáil karas, áfach, ina ndéanann sé tagairt do dhifríochtaí idir dlíthe cánacha bhallstáit éagsúla. feictear domsa go ndéanann an t-airteagal seo dímheas ar phrionsabal na coimhdeachta agus nach bhfuil pioc fírinne ag baint leis. is faoi na tíortha aonair atá sé a réimse cánacha féin a phiocadh, agus spreagann na réimsí éagsúla seo comórtas laistigh den mhargadh aonair, ní a mhalairt.
mr president, last week the irish people made a democratic decision on the lisbon treaty which must be fully respected. while many of us who voted or campaigned for a ‘yes’ vote are disappointed in the result, i think it is important that we reflect on that result. in response to mr batten’s remarks, i want to emphasise that ireland is not anti-european. ireland remains completely committed to the european idea. we are mindful of the fact that ireland is one of 27 member states, but this is not just an irish problem. it is a problem for all member states. europe has faced many challenges in the past and it has overcome those challenges through mature and wise leadership. i would ask for the same to be shown here on this issue and on the challenges that we face. we are in uncharted waters and i think it is very important that we avoid knee-jerk reactions or hasty decisions. we need some reflection and maturity to make sure that we can fully address the present situation and try to get europe back on the road so that it is fully accountable to the citizens of europe.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i commend mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou. i feel that the issue of child poverty needs to be urgently addressed. underlining the statistics in relation to the number of children at risk of poverty – 19 million in europe – a greater emphasis needs to be put on enshrining the paramount importance of the family and, emanating from this, defending family life. the institution of the family merits unconditional respect and protection. it is the natural setting for children. in developed countries we find that poverty is increasingly a family phenomenon rather than a regional one. a child’s economic status is closely linked to that of their parents. parental unemployment is a cause of child poverty. in ireland, although families often earn a reasonable income, mortgage, health and car payments can absorb the majority of that income and leave little for raising children. other issues, such as parental addiction, leave insufficient funds for a secure childhood. separation and divorce also disrupt family finances to the detriment of children. it is imperative that families be efficiently supported, both economically and socially, in order to alleviate the shameful modern predicament of child poverty in europe.
mr president, according to the report, timber and fish are two of west africa’s most important resources. as the eu is the main destination of these products, it is up to us to play a significant role in promoting their sustainable development. the eu is now considering granting morocco advanced status, which allows for greater trade opportunities, a deeper political dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy and security matters. we are not opposed to this agreement in principle provided that morocco agrees to end all human rights abuses in the illegally occupied territory of western sahara, that morocco agrees to a free and fair referendum for the people of western sahara and that the fisheries partnership agreement is reviewed and the saharawi population of western sahara are allowed to live as equal citizens of their moroccan counterparts. there are many reasons why morocco is not qualified to be given advanced status. in particular, by granting morocco an advanced status the eu will certainly strengthen morocco’s illegal occupation and make the political process towards a free and fair referendum more difficult. in addition, granting advanced status to morocco would be going against the united nations mission to organise a referendum on self-determination in western sahara.
rapporteur. − mr president, this legislation is very necessary as the current legislation on residue control has led to a serious decrease in the availability of authorised veterinary medicines, creating adverse effects for public and animal health and welfare. i would like to urge the presidency, particularly the incoming french minister, to make this dossier a priority to help to resolve the crisis in availability, especially for what we call minor uses and so-called minor species, which include sheep, horses, bees, fish and many other animals that are not so minor in many of our countries. however, there is an urgent need to review the veterinary medicines directive according to the outcome of the task force on the availability of veterinary medicines. this legislation is just a band-aid in terms of the necessity out there. while i welcome it, i urge the incoming french presidency to give it the priority it needs.
in writing. − the objective of any waste policy is to minimise the negative effects of waste on human health and the environment. decoupling waste from our growing economies is vital. we produce 1.3 billion tonnes of waste annually, some 40 million tonnes of which is hazardous. this eu legislation aims to move us closer to becoming a recycling society. parliament has insisted on targets for re-use and recycling of waste. these targets are ambitious. by 2020 member states need to increase recycling and reuse of household waste by 50%. we need to reduce amounts of waste in landfill and incineration. the hierarchy system as a priority order forces legislators in waste prevention and management policy to apply prevention as key, followed by re-use, then recycling, with recovery and disposal at the lower end. only incineration with high standards of energy efficiency will be defined as recovery. we need to engage with citizens, producers and consumers regarding reduction, reuse and recycling of waste. community and local authority recycling facilities need to be practically located and accessible for maximum impact.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. in saying that, however, there is some doubt as to whether the decision on safety tonnage will be based on automatic granting of the safety tonnage because of the incorrect decision originally taken by the commission, or whether a fresh application has to be made. that is why there is some dispute as to whether or not the information is coming forward. maybe the commission could clarify for us the likelihood of a positive result from the new applications from the existing applicants´, who were proven right in the court decision.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh leis an gcoimisinéir as ucht an freagra a thug sé dom agus ba mhaith liom ceist fhorlíontach a chur. mar atá a fhios agat, a choimisinéir, tá athrú mór tagtha ar chúrsaí san iascaireacht, tá ardú ollmhór ar phraghas na hola le tamall gearr anuas, agus ba mhaith liom a fhiafrú: an mbeidh an coimisiún ag teacht ar aghaidh le moltaí chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do na hiascairí cois cósta, cosúil leis na hiascairí gliomaigh agus na hiascairí a luaigh mé sa gcás maidir leis an ísliú atá tagtha ar phraghas an tsliogéisc?
i thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner will be aware that the shadow home secretary in britain, former minister of european affairs, david davis, resigned his position in parliament last week on a principle in relation to the intrusion of the state into the privacy of the individual. whatever the merits of his resignation, i share the concerns that he expresses. the state would never bring before a parliament or the european parliament in one measure some of the extreme things the state or the european union wants to do, so it is done incrementally. i want all terrorists to be brought to book. i grew up in a country where for 30 years terrorists wreaked havoc on our country, but we also had the rule of law which protected the privacy of citizens. i want to know from you, commissioner, what steps you are taking proactively to ensure that the rights of individuals to go about their business and their privacy is protected.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, bíonn scéala faoi bhás ar na bóithre ar na meáin gach lá. tionóiscí gluaisteáin, gluaisteáin ag bualadh in aghaidh coisithe ar na bóithre – chuile bhás ina thragóid ann féin agus ansin ag deireadh na bliana déantar staitistic as na mairbh. is cúram dúinne, idir bhallstáit agus aontas, iarracht a dhéanamh laghdú a chur ar na staitisticí úd agus ár saoránaigh a chosaint ar na tragóidí seo. is féidir cosc a chur le marú ar na bóithre agus ba mhaith liom tréaslú leis an uasal ferrari as ucht feabhas a thuarascála agus tréaslú freisin leis an gcomhoibriú atá idir an chomhairle, an pharlaimint agus an coimisiún ar an ábhar seo. tagraíonn teideal an togra do na daoine a úsáideann an bóthar atá goiliúnach agus iadsan a fhulaingíonn den chuid is mó. ar an gcéad dul síos, is iad na coisithe go minic a bhíonn gan locht i dtimpistí a bhaineann le feithiclí agus is iad a thagann níos measa as. comh maith leis sin, i mo thír féin – in éirinn – léiríodh le déanaí go bhfuil níos mó seans go bhfaighfidh daoine aosta bás de bharr timpistí ar na bóithre i gcomparáid leo siúd atá níos óige ná 65 bliain. ní aon eisceacht éire ar ndóigh. faigheann níos mó ná 8,000 duine bás de bharr timpistí ar bhóithre na heorpa gach bliain. tá moltaí chun daoine atá goiliúnach mar seo a chosaint curtha chun cinn le blianta anuas agus cé go bhfuil feabhas tagtha ar chúrsaí, ní miste a lua go mbeidh tubaiste ann de bharr nach bhfuil lucht déanta polasaithe ag tabhairt aird ar a bhfreagrachtaí. luaigh mé roimhe seo an comhoibriú fiúntach atá idir na hinstitiúidí eorpacha chun an tuarascáil seo a tharraingt le chéile. chun go mbeidh toradh fóntach ar an gcomhoibriú seo, caithfidh na ballstáit oibriú as lámh a chéile agus caithfidh na húdaráis náisúnta oibriú leo siúd a úsáideann na bóithre. is linne, mar lucht déanta dlí, an fhreagracht agus caithfidh muid seasamh le chéile más linn an sprioc a bhaint amach.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i should like to thank the president-in-office, the president of the commission and my colleagues for their contributions so far. obviously, what has occurred was not anticipated. the ‘no’ vote in ireland represents a sea-change with regard to the opinion of one set of voters within the european union towards the european union project. because of the diversity of those who opposed this treaty in the referendum in ireland, because of the different viewpoints – both politically and ideologically opposite to each other on many occasions – it is difficult to extrapolate from that exactly why the people voted ‘no’. what we have requested is that we be given time to look at and analyse those results, to find ways to move forward and what can be done. because this – even people on the ‘no’ side claim – was not a vote against europe, despite the fact that some on the ‘no’ side have voted ‘no’ on every single european referendum since ireland first acceded in 1972. but they claim that this is not a vote against europe. likewise, they claim this is not a way of reducing what europe does. but their big slogan during the campaign was ‘vote “no” for a stronger europe’. maybe now those on the ‘no’ side could come forward and tell us what kind of stronger europe they want to see happening, what solutions they wish to bring forward as regards how we move forward in dealing with the global challenges and difficulties that face us. today in brussels we have farmers and hauliers protesting at the high price of fuel. this time last year a barrel of oil cost usd 48; today it is usd 140. this time last year the price of food in haiti was affordable for even the poorest people; today there are riots in the streets of haiti because of the shortage of food and the difficulties this creates. these are the challenges that we must respond to at a european level; these are the difficulties that we must tackle. let us not forget the world is not going to collapse. we have been here before: both the french and the dutch said ‘no’ to a previous treaty and a mechanism was found to organise and advance the european project. this is not a time for recrimination or finger-pointing. however, despite what some of the protesters within this chamber may think, this is a time for respect: not just respect for the irish voters, who gave their democratic opinion with regard to this treaty, but respect for the other countries and their individual rights on how they operate and how they ratify a treaty. it is not up to us to dictate to anybody what advances can and cannot be made. i say to those who wear t-shirts inside this house that not only do they disrespect this house and the members of this house, but they in no way stand for or represent the irish people or the irish nation. (applause)i want to make it clear that those same flag-wavers over here on my left, those same people who claim to defend the rights of irish people were the same people who appeared on irish television celebrating a ‘no’ vote in ireland in a pub in brussels. of course drink was consumed, but what respect do they have for the irish people and the irish flag that they use the irish flag as a tablecloth to put their drinks on? that is what this group represents; that is the kind of disrespect they have for the people. (applause) allow us to move forward. the european project is one worth saving. it is not just about peace or prosperity, it is about solidarity. many years ago sean o’casey, the irish poet, wrote in juno and the paycock: ‘i ofen looked up at the sky an’ assed meself the question – what is the moon, what is the stars?’ maybe today we have to ask ourselves a question for this generation: what does the european union actually mean and where do we want it go? (applause)
mr president, as an irish member, i represent the 54% who voted ‘no’ and the 46% who voted ‘yes’. those who are true democrats look not only to the result but strive to represent all of the people. i represent a sovereign state but you cannot uphold the sovereignty of your own member state – in my case, ireland – unless you uphold the sovereignty of all member states. in this context, if other member states decide to exercise their sovereignty and ratify the lisbon treaty, or otherwise, no real democrat, no flag-flying democrat who today claims to be irish, can legitimately object. ireland speaks for ireland; slovenia for slovenia. that is real democracy and that is real sovereignty. a core issue in the lisbon debate in ireland was the principle of unanimity. for lisbon to be ratified, we need unanimity. all 27 member states must agree – that is core. this is the first real test of unanimity under lisbon. we must not fail that test and therein lies the challenge. as politicians, our job is to rise to that challenge, to listen to our citizens, to find solutions and to get on with the business of building a better europe. some on the ‘no’ side in ireland spoke of a better deal. let us be optimistic and look for a better deal for all citizens. we need some time and space in ireland to reflect and respond to find solutions. the good will for europe is there in ireland. who could have forecast in 1945, when europe lay in ruins, that in 2008 we would celebrate 50 years of peace? let that be our inspiration. europe is a work in progress, a process – difficult, certainly, but always, always worthwhile. that is why we are here. european citizens want a union that works. so do irish citizens. of that i am one hundred percent certain. let us not disappoint them.
mr president, i came across two major sentiments during the campaign. the first was a general feeling that decision-making was being further removed from the citizens in favour of a distant bureaucracy. the second, possibly more deeply held sentiment was that there was a loss of values. more accurately, that they were changing. ireland had prided itself on christian values but was finding itself becoming a materialistic nation. there has been a great deal of disparagement of my country since friday. it is as if you feel insulted. what actually happened was that ireland decisively said ‘no, thank you’ to the lisbon treaty. if the response to the democratic will of the people that i have heard in the last five days is outrage, then there is something wrong. make no mistake: ireland is pro-european. we believe, as obviously you do not, that the project has lost its way. it has lost sight of the one thing it needs most – democracy – and forgotten the only people that matter – its citizens. so, before you try to bypass our democratic decision, ask yourself two questions. one: do you truly believe that this treaty would survive referendums in the other 26 countries? and two: is threatening a country for being democratic an action of democracy? (applause)
mr president, if you are looking to me to make sense of the irish vote on the lisbon treaty, look away: i cannot. but while i am deeply disappointed with the result, of one thing i am sure: we must accept it as the democratic will of the people and respect it. what a turn-up for the history books, as i look behind me here today to see a motley collection of extreme right-wing british colleagues, including jim allister and the odd british jailbird thrown in for good measure, all donning the green jersey, demanding respect for the irish vote. (protests from certain members of the ind/dem group) how the history books could have been written differently if respect for the irish vote from british colleagues was always there! how things could have been different! how many lives could have been saved! i welcome it – albeit very late. we must all respect the irish vote. (protests in the background) he had a lot of time practising behind bars; maybe he could shut up now for a moment... (applause) one of the irish members in this house, who has already spoken this morning, distributed leaflets during the campaign with a syringe on them. perhaps she could tell this house where in the lisbon treaty euthanasia is provided for, where in the lisbon treaty abortion, prostitution, corporate tax decision, risks to the irish neutrality lie. i await the truth. the irish government must analyse the outcome calmly, to establish exactly what happened within the treaty text that our electorate voted against, and they must provide answers acceptable not just to naysayers in ireland but also to all other member state governments and their citizens who, in my opinion, are also entitled to have their say and express their position, and we must respect that also. a measured response to the genuine concerns of the irish electorate is called for, but we must not appease the extremists. when the dust settles, i hope colleagues will agree with me that a two-speed europe is not the answer but the beginning of the end of our union, the most successful democratic peace project of our time. it has always been easier to peddle fear than hope. a famous irish politician, one of our own – james dillon – once said: ‘a lie well told and told often enough, i am damned if the truth would ever catch up with it’. it did not. we failed to distinguish fact from fiction in the minds of a sufficient number of our electorate, despite the valiant efforts of our director of elections, gay mitchell, and my colleagues. it is now up to our new taoiseach, who has had an inauspicious start, to come up with a solution. (applause)
mr president, i am less diplomatic than most of my colleagues in this house. the fact is that lies, damn lies and statistics defeated the truth in the irish referendum. lisbon is not dead. nevertheless, the choice made in ireland is a sovereign decision of the irish people. the only people who can vary that decision on that treaty are the irish people. whether that happens or not depends on the discussions that will begin tomorrow between the irish government and the other 26 heads of state. there is no magic wand. it will take time to reach conclusions. i propose a new deadline for ratification of lisbon. i think that setting it before the european elections is a reasonable target. if the irish people continue to be dissatisfied with lisbon in whatever form it is finally agreed between us and the rest of europe, then ireland will have no option but to renegotiate its relationship with the union. that would be a disastrous course for our country. europe has very little to lose if it loses ireland, but ireland has everything to lose if it loses europe. the global challenges we all face in this constantly changing and inter-connected world are clear: climate change, demographic change, migration and energy crisis, hunger and poverty killing millions, human insecurity, international crime, topped by an identity crisis in virtually every one of our member states. these cannot be solved by any member state pulling the shutters down and hoping these will go away. to conclude, could i urge that europe demonstrate tangible capacity to deliver decent living and working conditions? that will reinforce our unity and our solidarity and produce a positive solution to this crisis. (applause)
mr president, this is a lively debate and one that i have listened to very carefully. yes, the irish have spoken and they have said ‘no’. but one of the things that worries me deeply is that those who voted ‘no’ felt there were no risks in doing so: they felt, perhaps, the status quo would prevail. now it is very clear from this debate that other countries believe that their process of ratification through parliament is equally valid and that that will proceed. so there will be some sort of dilemma for ireland and the irish to look at the situation if 26 ratify and there is urgency for our taoiseach, brian cowen, to come forward in the next few days with certainly a reflection, and perhaps proposals, on the way forward. could i address specifically kathy sinnott who campaigned, in my view, with some rather horrendous arguments for a ‘no’ vote? could i say to her, concerning this worry about loss of values in ireland, that we cannot blame europe for the loss of values in ireland. we have done that ourselves, and let us stop throwing the buck at the european union and maybe look at our own values of materialism in ireland and elsewhere.
mr president, the common fisheries policy has failed miserably and has contributed to the sharp decline in europe’s fish stocks. it is not fit for purpose. the recent rise in marine fuel prices – an increase of over 240% on 2004 levels, according to the commission, over 30% in recent months – has only exacerbated the already well-documented devastation of our fisheries and fishing industry in europe. while we all agree that certain urgent short-term measures need to be taken at eu and member state level to alleviate the plight of fishermen, skippers and their crews – such as appropriate levels of state aid, perhaps reduction in tax on fuel over a certain price, financial support for tying-up and greater control of imports garnered from illegal fishing, to name but a few options – we as policymakers must also look to the future. it is time for us to consider new options in any medium- to long-term restructuring plan, as well as the necessary decommissioning grants to match fleet capacity to available resources. what about a market-based approach with a tradable quota system, rather than continuing the practice of overbearing regulation, which has simultaneously decimated the fishing industry and precipitated the serious decline in fish stocks? the present cfp perversely incentivises the immoral and unsustainable practice of discarding accidental by-catch and juveniles, as it is illegal to land them. we discussed this recently in the schlyter report. this problem is compounded by illegal imports, unreported and unregulated fishing, as discussed at the last part-session. according to some experts, such as thorvaldur gylfason, professor of economics at the university of iceland, a fee-based trading policy, determined by an independent authority, could make every kilo of sustainable fish valuable so that there would be no inducement to discard fish or land it illegally. would the commission and the council not agree that a tradable quota system, informed by economic and environmental rationale with an ecosystem-based management, could, on the one hand, preserve valuable marine resources for present and future generations while, on the other hand, offering some solace to the productive and efficient fishermen who are crying out for reform? yes, we need short-term emergency measures for the present marine fuel crisis, together with medium- and long-term restructuring, informed by environmental and economic rationale, instead of making criminals of our most productive and efficient fishermen who lie awake wondering, as one irish fishermen’s spokesman said: ‘will it be the boat or the house that will go first?’
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liomsa fáilte a chur roimh an bpacáiste atá molta ag an gcoimisiún. ach ba mhaith liom a rá – mar tagaim as éirinn – nár thug an comhbheartas iascaigh eorpach riamh cothrom na féinne in éirinn. agus bhí a fhéithshliocht sin ar an vóta a bhí againn an tseachtain seo caite. tá sé in am anois ag an aontas eorpach a thaispeáint gur féidir leo cabhair a thabhairt in am an ghátair don tionscal iascaireachta, mar tá sé i ndroch-chaoi. agus is iad na hiascairí beaga na daoine is mó atá ag fulaingt anseo. in éirinn, tá 11% d’fharraigí na heorpa againn ach níl againn ach níos lú ná 4% de na cuótaí. níl an polasaí ag obair. ach tá sé tábhachtach go ndéanfadh an taontas eorpach anois cur le chéile agus a thaispeáint gur féidir leis cabhrú le hiascairí in am an ghátair. agus iarraim go ndéanfaí chuile shórt chun an pacáiste seo a chur chun cinn agus é a bheith le feiceáil go n-oibríonn sé.
mr president, in july 2007 i went to castletownbere in west cork, which is in the south-western part of ireland, and met with the fishing community there. at that time they were in deep trouble. since that time oil prices have increased dramatically. in fact, over the last five years oil has increased in ireland by over 300%. at the same time the cost of fish or the price they are getting has not increased. it is not just about people working on trawlers and people owning trawlers, it is about coastal communities. they are the people that are affected, and this is extremely important. i welcome the proposals from the commission, but i also think there should be further proposals in relation to dealing with the whole issue of discarded bycatches, and i think that has not been dealt with and needs to be dealt with immediately. we need to make it more efficient and make it more cost-effective, but we also need to make sure that people are able to make a living from it: not only the people involved in the industry, but also people living in coastal communities.
the chairman of the council. − once the directive is adopted, it will probably be possible to take action in these cases, and we hope that this will be as soon as possible. this is certainly a practice aimed at employing persons who are illegally present in the territory of the member states of the european union, and this will of course be contrary to the directive when and if it is adopted. i repeat, the council expects this to be as soon as possible, and we also assess that considerable progress has been made in this half-year.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for your question, mr. harkin. this is an important issue, and this is also confirmed in the 18-month programme of the presidency, which we have prepared together with germany and portugal. in it, we emphasized that patient safety is an important area. to this end, the patient safety working group of the high level group on health services and health care has developed recommendations to improve patient safety in the european union. in the context of these recommendations, it highlighted the education and training of healthcare staff as one of the main areas. the recommendations also indicate the need to promote multidisciplinary patient safety education at all levels of healthcare professionals' education. the working group also recommended the use of a single integrated umbrella network, the so-called eunetpass, to support member states and enable cooperation on patient safety at the european union level, as one of the pathways to achieve patient safety. the commission has funded two projects at european level to contribute to a better understanding of the situation and to develop guidelines for future work in the field of patient safety. this is the case of the marquis project 'methods of assessing response to quality improvement strategies' and the simpatie project 'safety improvement for patients in europe'. patient safety was also on the agenda of the june council of ministers. this month, on 10 june, the council adopted conclusions in the field of antimicrobial resistance. in these conclusions, it supports the development of strategies towards the responsible use of antimicrobials. the prevalence of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria is most often the result of inappropriate use throughout the health care system. activities related to the prevention of the further emergence of resistant pathogens are also important. these activities include the establishment of an effective system of controls between member states and the need to raise awareness among healthcare workers. at the last meeting of health ministers, in june, the commission presented information on the patient safety package. this is the 'patient safety package' and in this context the commission has announced its intention to present a specific communication on patient safety and a proposal for a recommendation on patient safety and infection prevention and control by the end of 2008. as soon as these documents are available, the presidency will of course bring them to the attention of the council. finally, i would like to mention the european parliament and council directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. it regulates the field of professional qualifications of healthcare professionals in a very precise manner, with a view to protecting the citizens of the european union, and defines the scope of cooperation between member states in this field.
i thank the president-in-office for his reply. i am pleased to hear of the progress that has been made in the last six months, in particular with the patient safety working group. my particular concern here was that, while we have the mobility of health-care workers, we do not have in place at eu level a recognised structure that provides for formal collaboration between the regulators of health care professionals and health services. would the minister not agree that we need to put in place, at eu level, a recognised structure that provides for formal collaboration between these regulators? because without that coherence and without that structure, individual regulators cannot guarantee patient safety; so i would like to hear his comments on that.
just a supplementary to that: we also have the mobility of patients throughout the european union, people who go on holidays and have operations done – with some dreadful consequences. how is this to be tackled so that people, first of all, are aware of the problems and, then, that they are prevented by having properly qualified health-care professionals that are tracked throughout the system?
i thank the council for its reply and i agree that all these matters – same-sex marriages, civil partnerships etc. – should be within the remit of member states only. however, one of the issues that arose during the lisbon debate in ireland was the issue of the charter of fundamental rights. i just want to ask the minister whether he has a view as regards the charter of fundamental rights, which was annexed to the lisbon treaty. at that time it was claimed in ireland that this charter could facilitate the introduction of same-sex marriages, abortion, euthanasia etc. i just want to ask the minister if he has a view on that.
my question is along the same lines as marian harkin’s question. one member of this house circulated a leaflet saying that if the lisbon reform treaty was passed in ireland euthanasia and abortion would be introduced – a leaflet which contained a syringe, if you don’t mind! the same member had the audacity to stand up in this house today and talk about truth and honesty. i want the minister to tell this house clearly that, in the event of the lisbon treaty being passed, it is clear that it would not introduce abortion and euthanasia in any member state.
this is a global issue and what we do in the health check on agriculture in europe is important but it is small. what sort of dialogue have we with the us, where 25% of their corn is eaten by cars rather than cattle? surely that is a huge issue which needs to be addressed.
a uachtaráin, molaim uachtaránacht na slóivéine mar gheall ar an mbéim a chuir sí ar shábháilteacht bóithre. tá i bhfad níos mó meabhraíochta anois ag údaráis na mballstát éagsúil céimeanna a thógáil chun polasaí praiticiúil a ghlacadh chun timpistí bóithre a laghdú, chun an méid timpistí marfacha a laghdú agus chomh maith leis sin an méid daoine a bhíonn gortaithe ar ár mbóithre a laghdú. fáiltím mar shampla roimh thuarascáil ferrari a ghlac an pharlaimint inniu, chun níos mó cosanta a thabhairt do throithigh agus do lucht rothaíochta. ba mhaith liom a fháil amach ón gcomhairle, an bhfuil aon rud eile ar féidir linn a dhéanamh – agus níos mó céimeanna a dhéanamh – chun na bóithre a dhéanamh níos sábháilte?
mr president, i would like ask the minister if he is happy that, whereas there is sufficient and advanced testing for driving with alcohol, the same advanced testing is not there for driving with illegal drugs. could he try to ensure that there is renewed interest in this particular issue, because it seems to be becoming a more common practice?
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, tá na rannóga caorach agus gabhair an-tábhachtach san eoraip don eacnamaíocht agus don timpeallacht. tá feirmeoireacht caorach agus gabhair níos tábhachtaí fós i gceantair iargúlta agus i gceantair sléibhe, áit a mbítear ag brath go mór uirthi ó thaobh na heacnamaíochta agus na talmhaíochta. níl sé dian ar an timpeallacht ach oiread agus cosnaíonn sé an tírdhreach tuaithe. ach fós tá todhchaí an tionscail seo faoi bhrú san aontas eorpach faoi láthair. tá an táirgeacht chaorach tite 12.5% ón mbliain 2000. tá feirmeoirí ag fágáil slán leis an ngairm seo toisc an obair a bheith chomh dian agus an teacht isteach uaithi a bheith ró-íseal. níl an oiread caoirfheola á hithe anois agus a bhíodh, toisc go gceaptar go bhfuil sí ródhaor agus go bhfuil sé deacair í a chócaráil. tá seo i gceist go mór le daoine óga. tá iomaíocht níos déine sa mhargadh freisin ó thíortha eile. titfidh an táirgeacht chaoirfheola 10% faoin mbliain 2015, mura ndéantar rud éigin faoi anois. ba chóir féachaint ar an rannóg anois faoi ‘scrúdú sláinte’ an cap, agus ba chóir gníomhú go luath. mr president, since being appointed rapporteur for this report in june 2007, i have opened up a wide-ranging series of discussions with interested parties, including farming organisations, representatives from the lamb-processing sector and consumer organisations. ernst and young compiled a very thorough study of the sheep and goat sectors, for which i would like to thank them. i consulted with the agriculture commissioner, mrs fischer boel, and various european agriculture ministers, who were all very supportive to me in compiling this report. at all times i try to remain realistic in the proposals i put forward. very briefly i would highlight the main recommendations of the report. firstly, the introduction of a new environmental sheep-maintenance scheme which would allow sheep farmers to be paid under on a per-ewe basis, in recognition of the positive environmental attributes associated with the maintenance of sheep production, to be co-financed by national and european union funding. secondly, an additional payment for traditional mountain breeds in order to preserve sheep in sensitive areas. thirdly, an eu regulation for the labelling of sheepmeat products which would have an eu-wide logo to allow consumers to distinguish between eu products and those from third countries; this would be underwritten by a number of criteria, including farm assurance schemes and a country of origin indication, thus ensuring that consumers are fully aware of the point of origin of the product. fourthly, a review of the introduction of the compulsory electronic identification system for sheep, scheduled for 31 december 2009. due to the difficulty in implementation, high cost and unproven benefits, we propose allowing each member state the discretion to decide whether to introduce electronic tagging on a voluntary basis if they so wish. fifthly, an increase in the current annual european commission food promotion budget which is valued at eur 45 million for 2008, the ring-fencing of funding for eu lamb, and changes and simplifications to the practical rules governing the operation of this budget so that lamb products can be given meaningful access to this budget. sixthly, that the european commission bring forward proposals on price transparency in this sector to provide information to consumers and producers. seventhly, a review of existing import quota management regimes by the european commission so as to ensure that eu-produced lamb is not exposed to unfair competition and that the option of sensitive produce status for sheep meat products be available to the european union. eighthly, support for the european commission in research and development in the small ruminant industry, concentrating on both technical innovation for farms and product innovation. ninthly, as part of the simplification process in the review of the common agricultural policy health check, which is taking place over the next eight months, the european commission must allow 14 days’ notice to be given to livestock farmers for on-farm cross-compliance inspections. finally, the setting-up of an eu implementation task force comprising members of the european commission, the presidency and the council. this eu implementation task force will oversee the practical reforms needed so as to make the european sheep sector viable, competitive and profitable. i would ask my colleagues to support this report as i believe, if implemented, it will go a long way to help save the sheep and goat sectors in the european union.
mr president, i should like to say thank you and welcome to the commissioner. if you have not heard it already, commissioner, the message coming very clearly from this house is that electronic tagging is a very bad idea and it must be put to bed. if this report – and i thank liam aylward for his work on it – achieves anything, i would hope that it would achieve a bit of realism on electronic tagging of sheep. you have heard the reasons – it is not practical, it is too costly and sheep farmers quite simply will not wear it. irish sheep farmers are in an angry mood at the moment – as you know, we have taken a vote on the lisbon treaty – and it would be rather practical if the commission could say, ‘let’s listen to them and put this one to bed’. do not bring it in. i would like to say a few things about the report, which details the problems in the sheep sector and does it particularly well. the real solution for sheep farmers is better market prices and, if we cannot get those, a better share of the price we, as consumers, pay for lamb. we need to encourage young people to start eating this meat which, as you have heard, is a healthy product. so measures in terms of marketing initiatives to help that are very important. i worry about article 69. we are simply cross-subsidising between farmers and i am not so sure that would go down very well with farmers from whom the money will be taken. i support the idea of an environmental-linked payment but i am a little concerned. we had them before and there were problems on the mountains because of it. then – guess what – we decoupled, hoping to solve that problem, and now we are trying to recouple. but the sheep sector needs additional payments to keep farmers in business, particularly in sensitive areas. moving on to the task force: i am not a great fan of task forces but i am happy to support this idea if the rapporteur, as he has said, is prepared to stick with it and make sure work happens. could i ask the commission to clarify how many people, if any, are working in the commission on sheepmeat? i gather very few. i think there is one person, but i would like to know. briefly, the experience in ireland of a sheep strategy report is not good. a year and a half ago eur 28 million were promised, with great fanfare, to irish farmers. guess what? to date eur 9 000 have been delivered. i hope this report does somewhat better.
rapporteur. − mr president, it was remiss of me not to welcome the new commissioner, to thank him and to wish him well. i should of course also like to thank all the speakers here tonight, particularly the shadow rapporteurs, for their contributions. i would also like to thank the slovenian presidency for their support over the last six months, during which they agreed that the development of the sheep sector would be put on the agenda of the council of agriculture ministers in march. this gave the agriculture ministers across the community an opportunity to discuss the crisis. my thanks also to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, neil parish, who has been very helpful and supportive. briefly, i want to refer to the amendments and matters raised here tonight. i have heard the view from the commission in relation to the implementation task force. now i know i am right because they are against it. i find it very difficult to agree to amendment 2. some proposals have been made to me. if we can get proper wording i have no difficulty with that, but i will not dilute the importance of what we are trying to achieve. again, my view on electronic identification has always been clear. i am against it – not least due to the high costs involved – but also the benefits are unproven and there are difficulties in implementation. i have, however, always stated that each member state should be allowed the option of introducing this system on a voluntary basis. therefore i am unable to support amendment 4 but i can support amendment 1 by the ppe-de group deferring the implementation of the system until 2012 at the earliest. all the other amendments proposed i will accept. i am not going to go through them now but i can accept amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 3 and 5. i think it is worth pointing out that since 2003 it has been stated that any sector in the common agricultural policy facing difficulty or disadvantage will be prioritised in the context of the cap health check. in the forthcoming check i would ask the commissioner for agriculture to ensure that the interests of the sheep and goat sector are comprehensively addressed. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to wish the french presidency well over the next six months. they will be very important to this report. i have met with the french minister for agriculture, mr barnier, who is already committed to having a discussion on these sectors at the november meeting of the council of agriculture ministers. i am confident that he, who has a well-informed understanding of the challenges that the sheep and goat sector faces, will do his utmost to ensure that the necessary proposals in this report on the future of the sheep and goat sectors are implemented in the context of the cap health check.
madam president, i too am delighted to see you in the chair. i voted for amendment 6 because i believe that the authorisation of the chlorinated chicken imports would undermine european standards and i see that happening on two fronts. first of all, there is a lack of scientific data on the environmental and health impact of using the substances that are proposed. secondly, given the regime under which poultry producers operate, it is unreasonable to have two different standards, both from the perspective of the producers and more importantly from that of the consumers. the previous speaker mentioned the lisbon referendum in ireland. certainly one of the issues on the ground that i came across when canvassing was that people do object to different standards. but what we are doing here in parliament today is dealing with that, so i am delighted that parliament has passed that resolution.
madam president, i fully support the resolution passed by parliament. again, one of the things we often speak about in parliament is how we respond to the needs of citizens. i think this is a clear case where a response is needed. the fishing industry is in crisis, with fuel prices having increased by more than 300% in the last five years while prices for fish are similar to those paid 20 years ago. so the bottom line is that fishermen cannot survive, they are going out of business and i think some of our proposals in this resolution will help to improve the situation. i am pleased to see that the slovenian presidency has said that they will take this on board, and i would call on the council of fisheries ministers when it meets next week to pay particular attention to this resolution.
madam president, i agree with the final speaker about the electronic tagging. it certainly should be voluntary. i supported amendment 4 because i want to ask the commission and the council to look at introducing some kind of community financing for the system of electronic tagging. the goat, sheep and lamb sectors are in crisis and they certainly cannot afford to have further costs foisted upon them. indeed, i would have preferred amendment 1 – but of course that fell on the adoption of amendment 4 – where it was recommended that the implementation of the electronic identification system be deferred until 2012 at the earliest. i agree with the former speaker, as i said, that the bureaucracy and cost involved far outweigh any of the benefits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights one of the most pressing issues facing the eu internally and externally. we have decided in the eu to push for high food production standards – conscious of the needs for food safety and quality. we do not permit the use of chlorine dipping of chicken carcases within the eu for produce consumed in the eu and therefore it makes no sense to allow imports of us chicken into the eu which is so treated. in recent months we have a similar problem with imports of beef from brazil – where traceability standards fall far short of those in the eu. we may face a similar problem when we ban caged egg production in the eu but end up importing from outside the eu powdered egg products produced in caged systems. if the eu insists on internal standards, it must be prepared to defend them and stop imports which fail to meet our internal standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the problems in the sheep sector, which is in terminal decline unless action is taken. the parliament has voted in favour of eu funding for electronic tagging of sheep and, while this is welcome, i would have preferred to see electronic tagging taken off the agenda until the future viability of sheep farming is secured. in relation to the proposal for a task force, which was rejected by parliament, there is now an onus on the commission to upgrade its focus on the sheep sector and to report to the parliament on progress or otherwise in implementing the proposals in this report.
mr president, the humanitarian situation in somalia is deteriorating rapidly due to a combination of conflict, political instability and severe drought, as well as high inflation compounding matters further. we could be in danger of a return to the scenes of the 1992 famine if the international community does not give somalia greater priority. 2.6 million people out of a population of around 8.6 million urgently need assistance. if there is no significant improvement in this country, this figure could rise to 3.5 million by the end of 2008. 1.1 million people are now internally displaced. since january alone, over 300 000 people have fled their homes. humanitarian organisations are severely hampered in their efforts to help somali civilians and are experiencing attacks, theft and obstruction at checkpoints. such personnel face significant risks on a daily basis in their attempts to deliver food to those most in need. the african union mission in somalia and any succeeding un peacekeeping mission must be mandated to protect civilians, including women, children and internally displaced persons. attempts must also be made to stem the increase in the recruitment of child soldiers, particularly in mogadishu.
mr president, i too would like to condemn the ongoing human rights abuses in iran today, and i would also like, once the british have their vote next week, the council – i think it will be under the french presidency – to remove, once and for all, the pmoi from the terrorist list. could i say, in fact – even though the uk were responsible having the pmoi in the first place on the list – thank goodness for the common law justice system and the system of the british courts, which at least ensured independent, free, objective justice and, indeed, the recommendation that injustice had been done to the pmoi in the first place by having them on the terrorist list, and recommending their removal. i urge the french presidency – as i understand, it will be in their court – to follow through and remove them immediately. we cannot stand over the continuing abuse of human rights and the use of the death penalty at all, particularly where young men and young women and juveniles are concerned.
madam president, i wish to raise the issue of the increasing oil prices and particularly the oil futures market. there are many reasons given for the increase in oil markets. one is demand; the other is supply and the poor investment in infrastructure in oil for many years. professionals in the oil industry and market are increasingly raising the issue of the ridiculously low margin requirement for crude oil futures. it lies between 5% and 7%. in other words, if you want to buy 10 million euros’ worth of futures in oil, all you have to do is put down half a million euros as an investment. trimtabs investment research, a leading us independent research service, has said that if their margin requirement was raised between 25% and 50%, which is the same as most people who invest in the stock market pay, it would have a significant impact on lowering oil prices. the low margin requirement in the market means that the market is open to manipulation. there is absolutely no question about that. i have no problem with people investing in futures and commodities, but this is a ridiculously low margin. we must pursue this issue. the margin must be increased because the global economic effects are absolutely enormous and we must do everything we possibly can to reduce the price of oil globally.
mr president, we talk a great deal here about protecting children. evidence abounds to suggest that artificial flavourings and supplements are detrimental to the health of children on many counts. firstly, we can consider the 435% increase we have seen in the rates of children with autism in the last 15 years and the rates of adhd, which currently affects 3-5% of children. then we can consider the symptoms attributed to flavourings, of which there are so many, but let us take as an example msg, which is found in children’s sweets, drinks, snacks and dinners. there are 92 symptoms, but among them are hyperactivity and mood irregularities. as a mother myself, my primary concern in food is safety and transparency. i feel that we are seriously compromising children and their ability to learn when we allow cocktails of colourings, preservatives and additives into their food. children need good fresh food, grown as locally and naturally as possible. therefore, let us really begin to protect children.
mr president, this report has been generated by a petition from 30 000 european citizens. the committee on petitions has already played an invaluable role by putting this issue on the european agenda. it is vital for the confidence of citizens that europe can in fact engage with them on their behalf. it is therefore of the utmost importance that europe continues to be seen to be engaged with the environmental impact of this proposal, and a heavy burden therefore falls on the shoulders of commissioner dimas. we need to demonstrate that we are capable of safeguarding citizens’ health and the sustainability of our environment. the absolute need to develop energy resources, and the buying-in of energy resources, has to be based on principles of sustainability. my group’s amendments to this report are intended to focus, or rather re-focus, the report on these principles. i appeal to parliament to support them. an eia is necessary and obligatory as commissioner dimas has pointed out, if permissions are to be granted legally. how we manage this issue will set the scene for the future, and we must get the balance right.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague peter liese for all his tremendous work on this dossier. he has succeeded in reaching a compromise with the member states at council and, although it may not be as ambitious as some might have hoped for (perhaps that is the sign of a good compromise), it does deliver the framework for including the fastest-growing transport sector in the eu ets from 2012. as rapporteur on the review of the eu ets proposal, i understand the complexities behind this issue and the difficulties in negotiating a good and balanced compromise. peter has shown that it can be done, and my challenge will be to replicate his success in my report. since the eu-sponsored deregulation of the sector, eu citizens have spent around eur 80 billion a year on flight tickets, and this figure does not even include the low-cost carriers. there can be no doubt that access to lower fares, even zero fares in recent times, has made travel more accessible. however, given the problems we face in the light of global climate change and the 2°c target, it would seem irresponsible to exclude the aviation sector, and indeed the maritime sector, from contributing to the urgent solution of the fastest-growing global problem. we need to move towards a thriving low-carbon economy and to drive innovation and new technologies, and emissions trading is the most cost-effective way of achieving these goals. since the aviation sector is able to pass on costs to the consumer, it makes sense that allowances should be allocated via auctioning, even in the present fuel price climate, which makes any talk of passing on costs especially sensitive. the new system will apply to both intra-eu and international flights, including third-country airlines, ensuring that the competitiveness of eu airlines is secured. the management of airports, air traffic control and a single european sky all have a huge contribution to make in decreasing fuel consumption and thereby reducing costs of fuel and carbon credits for the airlines.
rapporteur. − mr president, due to transport difficulties in reaching strasbourg, i was not in a position last night to thank colleagues, particularly fellow rapporteurs åsa westlund and mojca drčar murko, and indeed my colleague pilar ayuso, who stood in for me in the debate, and all our respective assistants and staff for their cooperation over the last 12 months, in reaching a very satisfactory second-reading agreement on this important package on food measures. i hereby thank them all.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i think many of us are aware of the problems that heroin abuse brings to individuals, their families and their communities globally but also in europe. europe has used many enlightened policies at a community level to tackle heroin abuse, and in many ways it is leading the world on how to tackle the problem through its treatment and other such programmes. however, at the moment 90% of the heroin that is reaching the streets of europe is coming from afghanistan. i believe that the policies we are undertaking there at the moment are not really working. the open economy in afghanistan and the insurgency are mutually reinforcing. drugs finance the taliban, while the resulting lawlessness and violence facilitate poppy cultivation. many attempts have been made to try to persuade farmers to change from poppies to other crops but unfortunately they have failed. it is not surprising that there are still fields of poppies in afghanistan, particularly in helmand and kandahar, as this lucrative business is worth about usd 500 million per year to opium farmers and about usd 3.5 billion to the smuggling and refining business. by not effectively addressing this problem at source and by not providing sustainable and alternatives to opium farmers, we are failing not only the citizens of afghanistan but also the citizens of europe. what is happening at the moment, unfortunately, is that afghanistan is turning into another narcostate, and look at all the problems that emerged from colombia when that was allowed to develop. i recognise that it is not easy. i recognise that to try and tackle this within afghanistan is extremely difficult for all the people who are trying to tackle it, but i believe that the policies we are undertaking at the moment are not really working. i do not know what the solution is. i have read a lot about it and i realise that there are people out there who are putting their lives on the line to try and tackle this problem. i believe that the heroin problem in europe is beginning to increase. in ireland this year the authorities have seized a record amount of heroin and recent reports have shown a big problem for young women with heroin-abuse problems in the state. as a former minister responsible for drugs, i believe that greater coordination to effectively combat illegal drug trafficking is needed among all eu member states and also with other states surrounding afghanistan.
in writing. − today parliament voted in favour of the health and protection of eu consumers. consumer protection and our citizens’ health are at the centre of this food package regarding regulation of additives, enzymes and flavourings which was voted through parliament by a large majority. additives, enzymes and flavourings will be pre-authorised before being added to food. this is also good for industry as there is more consistency in terms of harmonisation and clarity across the eu member states. food colourings in products will be clearly labelled. two important issues for consumers involve intolerance to certain substances (for example azo dyes) and misleading labels regarding the product's nature, freshness, quality of its ingredients, naturalness and nutritional quality. regarding food flavourings, the desire is that food should be as natural as possible. parliament voted to protect against any limitation of herbs and spices. these have been used for centuries without any clear adverse effect. with regard to new scientific information from southampton attesting to the harmfulness of some food additive substances for children, i take this study and its implications seriously and await the commission’s support of it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the haug report on the 2009 pdb and mandate for conciliation. this report sets out parliament’s priority for next year. i welcome in particular the call for an adequate response to food aid and food security requirements, given the very sharp increase in food prices and production costs at farm level. i hope this response will be considered, appropriate and includes a serious investment programme in the agriculture sector both in the developing world and within the eu. i also voted in favour of amendment 15, which notes the margin under heading 2. however, efforts to include mechanisms to move unspent funds from the cap to other budget headings cannot be endorsed. in 2007, unspent money from the cap was diverted to the funding of the galileo project. this cannot become the norm.
a uachtaráin, is gá infheistiú i dteicneolaíochta glana nua a chur i gcroílár straitéisí an aontais eorpaigh chun a chinntiú go mbeimid in ann aidhm an aontais 25% dár soláthar fuinnimh a fháil ó earnáil inathnuaite a shroicheadh. tá sé ríthábhachtach chomh maith go dtabharfaidh bloic thrádála eile an domhain a ngeallúint ar thiomantas cosúil go luath amach anseo. faoi láthair, áfach, is é praghas an bhreosla is mó atá ag déanamh imní do shaoránaigh thíortha na heorpa. caithfidh an taontas eorpach polasaithe nuálaíocha a thabhairt isteach chun srian a chur le méadú ar chostas ola. tá méadú ar tháirgíocht ola lárnach sa mhéid seo. mr president, there is clear uncertainty in the international financial markets at present. many speculators have switched their investment strategies into the commodities market and this speculation has contributed to increasing pressure on oil prices in an upward spiral. rising oil prices is the last thing that european business and consumers need at a time of increasing economic difficulties. the european union needs to have a progressive neighbourhood policy in place which will ensure that we can protect and secure our energy needs into the future.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am very impressed by the convergence which is apparent in the speeches of all the speakers, which i could sum up as follows: neither demonization nor naivety. we have all heard the contributions of members that sovereign funds should obviously not be discouraged from being useful, and different forms of usefulness have been described for european prosperity. however, there are a number of political principles on which we have heard the same voices, and these are not to be taken lightly. the principle of transparency, the principle of loyalty, the principle of predictability and the political principle of reciprocity. it is certainly these contributions by members who will enable us to continue the work of the council and the commission towards the development of a code of good conduct. it is very encouraging and important that members have stressed the need for coordinated work between member states and i wanted to express the satisfaction that can be felt when the euro area states speak with one voice because they are able to coordinate upstream, as well as with the ecb.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. ladies and gentlemen, i can only thank you for the broad support that the commission's political approach has received in this debate. i could only tell the difference in accents, but not in the political line, and i'm very grateful for that. the question has been asked how work is going on at international level. let me say that the activities of the imf and the oecd run parallel, but they do not cover the same issues. they are complementary, so to speak. the international monetary fund has a working group that meets monthly to examine how the behaviour of sovereign wealth funds can be influenced in the context of our debate. in the oecd, a working group is working on how we ourselves should behave when faced with the influence of state funds. the subject is being tackled from both sides, and i can say again: the progress we have seen so far is satisfactory. we are quite confident that we are really making something of this and that we will then actually - to take the words of my colleague olle schmidt - have an umbrella if we ever need one.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the council is fully aware of the importance of horizontal measures to combat discrimination and has in fact already adopted legislative acts in this field. these are council directive 2043 which prohibits discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin in a number of contexts and also directive 2078 which prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or occupational orientation, in respect of employment and work. the commission is responsible for monitoring the transposition of legislative acts adopted by the european union and is empowered to initiate infringement procedures. the commission is also closely monitoring the effective implementation of the existing directives and on 2 july the commission adopted a proposal for a directive which provides protection against discrimination based on age, disability, sexual orientation and religion, or beliefs held outside the workplace. the new directive aims to ensure equal treatment in the following areas: social protection, education, accessibility and the provision of goods and services which are commercially available to the public, including, of course, housing. the council will therefore be examining this initiative very closely over the coming months.
acting president of the council. - mr president, we know that this will not be easy, but i can tell mr moraes that, on the one hand, we are indeed committed to its implementation on the legal level and that the presidency, as far as it is concerned, will make every effort to ensure that the commission's guidelines can be applied. we know already, given the traditions of each other and also the scope of the commission's proposals, that this will not be easy.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i think that the two questions sum up well the contradictions that may exist within the member states. there has been no discussion in the council so i cannot answer on behalf of the european union. what i want to say is that the presidency considers these guidelines to be important, that this is part of one of its most important tasks in the context of strengthening the social dimension of the european union, that we will do our utmost to bring our views closer together, that we will also be pragmatic and that we will take the results we can achieve as quickly as possible. i have heard what has been said about ethnic discrimination and it is obvious that this is a major concern for the presidency.
acting president of the council. - mr president, as you know, although it is not for the council to express itself formally on the various proposals for themes for the forthcoming european years, it takes note with great interest of the suggestion made by mrs harkin. the themes of the european years can be proposed by individuals, groups or institutions, but must first be approved and selected by the european commission, which then draws up a legislative proposal. it is examined by the european parliament and the council under the co-decision procedure and, therefore, the council suggests that the honourable member submit his proposal to the european commission, which has the monopoly of initiative for proposals of this type. as you know, 2008 is the european year of intercultural dialogue, and we intend to make it a reality under the french presidency.
thank you for your reply. i suppose the reason i used 2011 as the european year of volunteering is because i and four other meps have a written declaration down to that effect and i believe today we reached the required number. so at least that will be the view of parliament. if the french presidency has any influence on this i would ask that perhaps you would support us on it as well. as i said, we have reached the required number today and that allows us to put in place plans and policies to have real input into 2011 if the commission so decides. in the meantime i would ask the french presidency if they could ensure that young people’s voluntary activities are developed so as to aid young people’s mobility and employability.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his response and also to wish him well for the coming six months. i know that it will be very difficult; he can be assured of our support. however, on the issue of biofuels – and the president-in-office spoke of a first and second generation – the reality is that the problems that we now face in the linkage between biofuel production and food production are the result of using first-generation biofuels only. what we should be looking at is the third generation – going beyond the whole issue of biofuels to biomass, bioenergy and by-products from the whole energy sector – which could help us to achieve the reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels as well as assisting the environment. however, two key elements are required for that. firstly, coordination of research and development of technology and, secondly, a flexibility within the guidelines as laid down by the council meeting in january 2008.
i would also wish the french presidency every success. is it not the problem now that biofuels have a bad name not because of what europe has done but because of what the us is doing in feeding large quantities of corn to cars instead of to cows? and for europe and the world, is not the key issue to develop a sustainable land use policy which will give us food, feed, energy and environmental goods? but let us not demonise any particular one of them while making food production into the cornerstone.
can the president-in-office give a political commitment that the tackling of world child labour will be a priority for the council during the next six months? can we expect to see greater coordination in international action in the field of development aid and foreign affairs matters? finally, would the president-in-office like to comment on a recent bbc panorama programme on child labour in the supply chain of a well-known and successful european clothing brand? would the council consider introducing a system whereby european countries would be responsible for reporting on all levels of the supply chain?
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a iarraidh ar an uachtarán-in-oifig an mbeadh an uachtaránacht ag tabhairt tacaíochta don mholadh go mbeadh na hoifigigh seo – nuair a bheidh siad i gceist – in ann sócmhainní na gcoirpeach a thógáil uathu agus a ghlacadh ar láimh, chun go mbeadh an t-aontas tras-eorpach seo éifeachtach chun coireanna a mhaolú agus sócmhainní a ghlacadh chucu mar a dhéantar i dtíortha éagsúla agus, ar ndóigh, nach féidir a dhéanamh anois trasna na heorpa chun coireanna a chosc?
mr president, i too welcome the new president-in-office and wish him well for the next six months. i just wonder whether the president-in-office is familiar with the operation of the criminal assets bureau in ireland, and whether this could be replicated as a template. it has been very effective in investigating money-laundering, the proceeds of drug trafficking and, indeed, criminal activity generally. i wonder what his views are on that.
i, too, would like to welcome the president-in-office and wish france the very best for its presidency. i have two questions. the first is: has the president-in-office looked at the idea of an emergency telephone line? that would be a very good start. there is an emergency telephone line in a number of countries now. could that be extended further to other countries? secondly, could he give us more of a timeframe as to when he sees this happening? this is one of those issues which everybody agrees with and wants to see implemented, but it seems to get bogged down in bureaucracy. when something does happen, everybody will ask why has it not been done already. i wonder whether he could give us a timeframe on this issue and also tell us whether the idea of the emergency telephone line has been looked at.
i would like to ask the minister whether he agrees that there have been human rights abuses committed by the government’s own forces as well as the tamil tigers. could he make a comment on that please?
does a political agreement refer to a first-reading agreement or to preparations for an early second-reading agreement under the french presidency? also what priority is the president-in-office giving to border adjustment measures or bans? would the presidency agree with me that they should be kept in reserve for plan b in the event of our not achieving our goal of an international agreement, but should not be used as a stick in negotiating to get an international agreement?
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, molaim an tuarascáil seo. léiríonn sé an bealach a bhfuil na hinstitiúidí in ann oibriú as lámh a chéile agus iad ag tabhairt aghaidh ar leasuithe a chur i bhfeidhm a chosnóidh paisinéirí chomh maith le tomhaltóirí agus lucht gnó. tá cúrsaí taistil aeir athraithe go mór in achar ama an-ghearr agus na hathruithe sin dulta chun leasa na bpaisinéirí, go háirithe agus an domhan ag síorchúngú. léiríonn na heitiltí éagsúla atá ar fáil inniu an t-athrú mór atá tagtha ar nósmhaireachtaí gnó agus caithimh aimsire sa tsochaí. tá breis iomaíochta i measc aerlínte éagsúla anois agus ciallaíonn sé sin breis eitiltí agus eitiltí níos saoire don ghnáthphaisinéir. chonaic muidne a leithéid sin ag tarlú thar oíche i mo thír féin – in éirinn – le teacht dhírialú an tionscail eitleoireachta agus breith ryanair. tá an rogha eitiltí feabhsaithe agus eitiltí níos saoire ar fáil trí shíor-iomaíocht sa tionscal anois. chruthaigh sé seo fostaíocht, dar ndóigh, agus chuir sé le geilleagar na réigiún i gcásanna áirithe. mar sin féin, bheadh muid amaideach neamhaird a dhéanamh de na gnéithe diúltacha a bhaineann leis an bhforbairt mhór seo i dtionscal na heitleoireachta san eoraip. chiallaigh an fhorbairt mhear seo go bhfuil fadhbanna sóisialta agus sábháilteachta áirithe i gceist. ní gá go mbeadh sábháilteacht na bpaisinéirí agus na foirne oibre ná gnéithe sóisialta eile thíos le brabús na n-aerlínte. molaim moltaí na parlaiminte agus na comhairle maidir leis na gnéithe seo. ní mór breis comhoibrithe, breis tuisceana agus margadh níos éifeachtaí a bheith i gceist idir na ballstáit chun go bhforbróidh margadh an aerthaistil ar bhealach inbhuanaithe. feicimid, cheana féin, an bealach a ndeachaigh trédhearcacht praghasanna chun tairbhe do na paisinéirí. leanfaidh taisteal aeir ag síorathrú de réir mar a athraíonn an saol agus an tsochaí. ach, ní mór cur chuige aontaithe a bheith i gceist i dtreo is go mbeidh na forbairtí seo uile inbhuanaithe agus go rachaidh siad chun tairbhe dóibh siúd ar fad atá ag brath ar an tionscal. molaim an rapóirtéir, an tuasal degutis, as ucht a chuid oibre, agus cuirim fáilte mhór roimh chomhoibriú na parlaiminte agus na comhairle. agus beidh muid ag vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo anseo amárach.
mr president, i should like to thank mr schmidt for a very good report. let me say at the outset that some member states are in, or near to, recession, and we must ask ourselves what is the most important thing we can do in those circumstances. i believe the most important thing we can do in those circumstances is to protect jobs and promote the creation of jobs. let us look at the situation between 1990 and 1998 when, in what is now the euro area, five million jobs were created. but what happened in the 10 years between 1998 and 2008, when the euro was in situ and mr trichet and his predecessors were pursuing their policies, was that almost 16 million jobs were created. therefore, we have to reflect on this. this is a success story, and the contribution that the policies being pursued by the central bank made to this have to be acknowledged. we must give credit where credit is due. but is this story being sold? the reasons for the success clearly are low interest rates in the main, but in particular low inflation, and i think mr trichet’s constant refrain about that holds true. but do we need continued increase in interest rates? it is time now to examine this more deeply. current economic conditions call for calm and sensible action. that is why we have an independent central bank. however, i would like to make a comment on the strength of the euro. this is negatively impacting exporting economies. the euro exchange rate with the dollar and sterling is not softening and not likely to soften with the divergence between the us and euro interest rates. the rate rise, while targeting inflation, may present further risks to the euro exchange rate and impede economic growth potential in a time of economic uncertainty. in the moments that are left to me, let me say that last year i was rapporteur for the report on the ecb annual report and i pointed out then that there were eur 223 billion in eur 500 denominations – that is 446 million notes! i asked that it be examined, particularly because it seems to me that it is likely to be used for criminal purposes. perhaps mr trichet would say in his reply what has been done about the concerns i raised then.
madam president, we never fail to get remarks from the far right when we are debating this issue – remarks such as ‘benefit tourists’. we never hear them talking about ‘tax tourists’ or ‘state aid tourists’. it is always the poor and the less well-off who are attacked in this way. i want to congratulate the two rapporteurs on these reports. unfortunately, their positive work is unlikely to attract much attention in the member state media, which is generally more interested in negative stories. these are complex resolutions seeking to coordinate member states’ social security systems, which are also in themselves complex because they seek to address a variety of individual circumstances. the regulations are essential to our citizens and residents, particularly those living in border areas who, not unusually, work in one member state while living in another. it is important to ensure that people who do work and live in this way are covered for unforeseen unemployment, sickness and accidents and, indeed, eventual retirement. they need security if we are to ensure free movement in the european union. however, i want to raise one particular issue which is not covered by these regulations and is not generally covered in the member states either. that is the freedom of movement of people with disabilities, who often need personal assistance in order to move freely. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. − i am voting against the second part of paragraph 26 because i do not support nuclear being one of the priority initiatives. however i will vote in favour of the report because its objective is to accelerate innovation in cutting edge european low carbon technologies. it is crucial that europe has an energy research plan to support its ambitious energy policy and climate change goals.
mr president, the international olympic committee justified their granting of the 2008 olympic games to china by claiming that this would help open the country up to improvements in its human rights situation. however, chinese authorities have not heeded international calls to stop pursuing their follow-up to the riots of 14 march 2008 in tibet. participants in the protest are still being traced, detained and arbitrarily arrested and their families are being given no information as to their whereabouts, although this is required by chinese law. i call on china to abide by the public commitments it has made regarding respect for human rights, minority rights, democracy and the rule of law. this was the deal struck with the ioc when it agreed to allow china to host the games in the first place. this is a historic and unique opportunity for china to demonstrate its willingness to improve its human rights record to the world but in my opinion we are not seeing sufficient progress in this regard.
mr president, on a point of order, because the debate on palestinian prisoners held by the israeli authorities is to start so late – almost an hour late now – i am afraid i have to withdraw my name from the speaker’s list. but i ask that my minute, allocated to me by the pse group, be added to ms de keyser’s time allocation. she is leading for the pse group. i express my deep regret that i have to do this, but unfortunately i have to go to the airport.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, once a beacon of hope, an example of african self-empowerment and a leader among african states, zimbabwe is now the epicentre of african despair and hopelessness. the people of zimbabwe deserve better, and they must get it. but it is going to take an ending of the regime of robert mugabe, a murdering thug, for this to become a reality. we in the international community must toughen our resolve against this tyrannical mugabe regime. i welcome the fact that the un security council is considering an imposition of further sanctions against the leadership of zimbabwe, including the implementation of an arms embargo. how is it that a country where there are five million people dependent on food aid, where inflation has reached over ten billion per cent, and where a loaf of bread now costs over zwd 1 billion, still has one of the best equipped armies in the african continent and is totally awash with weapons? that is an extraordinary admission. the recent presidential campaign was not a legitimate election. the brutality of the mugabe regime was such that 90 people were killed, 3 500 were injured and a further 200 000 people were displaced during the campaign. these are hardly the ingredients of a free, fair and transparent democratic contest. south africa and other african countries must intensify the pressure against robert mugabe. nelson mandela was right when he said that there was a tragic failure of leadership in zimbabwe. south africa exercises strong political influence over the mugabe government, and south africa must show strong and decisive leadership on this issue for the people of zimbabwe and also for the people of africa, who are having to watch this leader lead his country down into the swamp.
mr president, mugabe is not listening and that is the tragedy because if he were he would do the right thing and go back to the elections of march and live with that result. i thought one of the most shameful things that happened was that mugabe attended the world food summit where he was allowed to parade, when in fact he is the cause of some of the major global food insecurity problems in his own country and on his own continent. i spoke to a farmer from zimbabwe just last week at a conference in brussels and the harm that has been done to the food production base of that country is quite horrific. somebody else said it is horrendous that a country can be armed to the teeth and that its people can be suffering hunger, violence, intimidation and torture. south africa needs to do more. the continent itself needs to be strong in its condemnation and we need to push them and urge them and convince them that this is the right thing to do, because our people are looking to us to take definitive action in a situation which is quite appalling.
in writing. – the recent elections in zimbabwe were a sham with mugabe being the only eventual candidate, having intimated tsvangirai and other members of the mdc to the point of withdrawal. there should now be fresh presidential elections in this country precluding most vehemently state-sponsored violence, intimidation and murder. i welcome yesterday's decision of the g8 summit in japan to adopt financial and other sanctions against members of the zimbabwean government. it is significant that there has been consensus at this level, even from russia, on a strong condemnation of the mugabe regime. a un security council resolution concluding that zimbabwe is now a threat to international peace and security is looking likely. i would urge china not to block this important action during this coming week. i regret that the african union is not doing enough to isolate mugabe as i believe that this union, along with the southern african development community and the pan-african parliament, are the key forums which should be charged with removing such a despot. the human rights violations currently being perpetrated by the zimbabwean government are bordering on crimes against humanity and i believe that the un security council should also therefore consider referring members of this government to the international criminal court in the not too distant future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. commissioner, you raised two points that i think are essential within this whole complex issue: first of all the flexicurity idea, and secondly the lisbon agenda about creating another freedom within the european union single market – free movement of workers. in many ways the lack of availability of mobility of pensions is denying many people the opportunity to take up what could be better paid jobs in other areas because they cannot carry over pension entitlements or even freeze pension entitlements in their home member state. so maybe you could suggest to us as part of the social package which you are now bringing forward – rightly welcomed by so many – where we can push the buttons to ensure we can get member states – those that are blocking this – to come on board for the ideal.
i would like to thank the commissioner and i look forward to the announcements in september. i think that some of the administrative burdens, especially on small and medium enterprises, are absolutely huge, and they very often do not have the manpower or womanpower to deal with them. but could you elaborate more on the eur 100 000 threshold? are you announcing that, or are you going to name and shame the countries that are resisting it? could you give us some more details about that threshold?
thank you for your response on this matter. it is of concern. i know you referred to the price of milk products and other items going up, but unfortunately farmers are not getting the benefit of those rises: it is the parties in between who are getting the benefits. my question really is about our reliance on supply from outside the eu. it appears that we are relying on russia and ukraine for the raw materials for our fertilisers. i am just wondering what action we are taking in order to make sure that we have adequate supply and are not over-reliant on one or two sources. can we not identify other sources and put mechanisms in place to encourage importation from those other sources?
i would like to thank the commissioner. this probably flows over into other questions for commissioner fischer boel. you made a point about higher prices in the harvest, but it seems that the costs of producing food are now increasing faster than prices are rising and this is surely a problem that europe needs to address. perhaps you would respond to that?
i am sure, commissioner, that you – like all the other members of the house here in this parliament – are very frustrated at the manner in which question time is handled here. we have referred to that on many occasions, but nothing seems to happen. i want to thank the commissioner for the reply, even though i am not happy with the response given. if compulsory modulation is introduced, in my view it will create division and friction between the various farming groups, between big and small farmers and, in particular, between farmers engaged in different agricultural enterprises. i would not like to see that happening. for example, in my recent sheep report which was adopted with a very large majority in parliament here last month, i proposed that modulation and article 69 (now 68) be introduced on a voluntary basis in member states. would the commission not accept the spirit of that decision, which was made here just last month by the elected members of this parliament?
a uachtaráin, is iad na feirmeoirí beaga faoin teorainn eur 5000 íocaíochta a fhaigheann an chuid is mó de na fadhbanna ach an chuid is lú den airgead, agus nach nglacfadh an coimisinéir leis ó déanadh an teorainn seo eur 5000 cúpla bliain siar – 2002 ceapaim – go bhfuil boilsciú agus go bhfuil athruithe móra tagtha? agus nach n-aontófá a choimisinéir, gur cosaint é don fheirmeoir beag go bhfuil siad ag fáil níos mó anois ná mar a bhí siad a fháil nuair a cuireadh an polasaí seo le chéile agus gur chóir an teorainn sin a ardú?
mr president, just a quick point. the greatest civil liberty we all have is life itself. there is always a debate and polarisation when we are discussing issues around extra security measures – issues which might be perceived to be limiting what we generally refer to as civil liberties. i just want to be sure that the commissioner is satisfied that the necessary checks and balances will go hand in hand with what is before us here now; to be sure that we are not going one step beyond what is actually warranted; to ensure that we are only putting in place the security measures, the identification measures that the world we are living in today actually warrants. we have just been reminded by my colleague mr coelho that failure to reach agreement on this at the first reading carries a huge message. this is a very sensitive area and more and more our citizens are questioning the ‘liberty’ – to use the word generically – being removed from them. i finish on this point: the greatest civil liberty is life. we must do all that is genuinely warranted to protect life in terms of security and extra measures. i would like assurances from you that the checks and balances are there nonetheless.
mr president, we are all reacting here within hours of having received the text from the commission, which contains a package of measures to support our fishing fleet in the present economic crisis. the commission is providing urgent measures of limited duration, and mainly of a social nature, which are welcome. the social measures apply to self-employed fishermen as well as to employees. in ireland we have a particular situation following a court judgment some years ago, whereby virtually all our deckhands are self-employed or share-fishermen and have to date been precluded from social security assistance at home when out of work for either economic or weather-related reasons, so i welcome this aspect. in terms of the temporary ‘tie-up’ measures, i would like reassurances from the commissioner that these will apply to all those who have to tie up for a short time for economic reasons, and that the restriction that they will only be available to those who are part of the restructuring scheme will be applied with the broadest interpretation. an application to restructure in any sense should be enough to allow an application to tie up in this particular area. i also welcome very much the partial decommissioning aid to allow fishermen to trade down to smaller, more climate-friendly and energy-efficient vessels. i would also like to think that the reduced carbon dioxide emissions from such a new contribution to the fleet should be able to be banked by member states to contribute to their effort-sharing under the climate package, which is rapidly coming down the track towards us, and we should connect the climate package with member states’ efforts in relation to energy-efficient vessels, smaller vessels and trading down in this particular area. i also think it is very important that we encourage the partial decommissioning proposed in the text because this will allow fishermen who really would love to continue fishing, who have the skills and the expertise of generations, to continue, albeit in a smaller way, while we get over the present economic crisis facing them. so, thank you for the measures. i sincerely hope that member states roll them out even-handedly. there is no extra money. it is only from within the eff. it is rearranging the financial deckchairs, but let us hope that we do not have anti-competitive measures as a result of the member states’ differing strength of resources to respond.
mr president, the hour is late so i will be brief. i think it is important to let you know what the federation of irish fishermen said in june when this package was first announced. they were sceptical and said that it was essential that any such proposal be backed up by significant funding. i think it has already been said that there is no additional funding, and what we are doing is rearranging the current pool of money that is available. i think we need to be honest about that, because this emergency package will take from other measures that may have been needed if oil prices had not caused the problems that they have for the fishing sector and, indeed, for other sectors. it is rather a shame that it took the industry to come out of the sea and go onto the streets for us to react in full. having said that, there are parts of this package which, if they are implemented – and i think that is the key – should be very positive. i think it is important that fleets that had to get out, so to speak, prior to the announcement of this regulation will be assisted under these measures. but there are lots of other issues for the fishing industry. one that you mentioned, commissioner, is the fact that prices for fish have gone down rather than up. i would be interested (but perhaps it is too late tonight) to hear how you think that might be addressed, because that is where we will really make progress in the fishing sector. very often when people have a problem, whether they are farmers or fishermen, they say that europe reacts too slowly. in this case we have not reacted very quickly, but at least there has been some speed in how we have reached the position we are in. however, as others have said, we have only got the paper. it is complex and it is a bit like the lisbon treaty, and i hope it will be accepted – certainly in ireland, where the lisbon treaty was not.
mr president, i welcome the proposals from the commission. this time last year i visited my own constituency in castletownbere. at that time, in july 2007, fishermen were in a fairly bad state as regards the whole industry. twelve months on, we are now facing up to the problems, and i welcome the proposals that are set out by the commission here today. however, there is also a need for a response from member states in other areas in relation to the whole fishing industry. the whole issue which you have raised in your own memorandum about quantity, quality and supply is a very important one and is about making sure that the people who produce and supply the fish get an adequate reward for the work that they do. i think at the end of the day, while the consumer may be paying, it is people in-between who are making quite a large part of the profit from it. i think one of the things that we need to change is the whole area of voluntary labelling. we need to bring in that mechanism so that we can clearly identify the product that comes from outside the european union and, in many cases, the product that is not caught in compliance with the regulations that are laid down. i think there needs to be change in that area. there is too much product coming into the eu which is not properly caught in accordance with regulations, and we are not doing enough in that area to make sure that we do have a level playing field for all the people within the eu. i think that is a major area that we need to work on. while i welcome these regulations and these proposals, i think we also need to implement the regulations that are there for the product that is coming in from outside the european union.
mr president, i would like to put a specific question that came up this morning in the committee on fisheries, raised by my colleague carmen fraga estévez and myself. article 12(3) states that ‘a fleet adaptation scheme shall concern only fleets where the energy costs represent on average at least 30% of the production costs, based on the turnover in 2007, of the fleet concerned by this scheme.’ could you guarantee to us here and put on the record that the first six months of 2008 will be able to be taken into account in the compilation of those figures too, because they have been a critically bad six months in terms of the actual percentage increase in energy costs for the fleet, particularly the more vulnerable aspects of our fleets?
in writing – the emergency package that has been proposed by the commission is a step towards putting a stop to the precarious situation faced by european fishermen. irish fishermen have some serious concerns that must be taken into account. how will the 2 billion in aid be distributed? will it be fleet by fleet or by quota allocation? furthermore, what will be done about the bottom trawlers that make up the vast majority of the current european fleet and are at risk of being wiped out by the current emergency package which has been proposed? this greatly concerns the irish fishermen as ireland has experimented with alternatives to bottom trawlers and so far no success has been achieved. if ireland is to continue providing fish to the rest of the eu and still have the means to provide for their families this is not acceptable. ireland has the biggest coastal area in the european community. the common fisheries policy has not worked for ireland. irish fishermen have faced hard times before but now they no longer have the control to work through their troubles. it is time for a change. it is time to reinstate irish fisherman as stewards of irish waters.
madam president, i would appreciate support for the following minor change in the text where it reads: ‘the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will impose closer interinstitutional cooperation’. i would appreciate it if colleagues, for understandable reasons, agreed to change that to: ‘the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon would, if ratified, impose closer interinstitutional cooperation’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponement of the vote on this sensitive report, believing that it would be more appropriate to wait until all of the information requested by the commission from the italian government was available to us. while the house voted to reject such a postponement, i abstained in the final vote, not wishing to support the resolution without all the facts being available to use and having some concerns about part of the text, while also wishing to acknowledge that any heavy-handed actions by the authorities targeting one specific group in society cannot be condoned.
mr president, i would like to welcome president sarkozy again to strasbourg and to congratulate him on engaging with parliament, for being real with regard to ideas, even though he knew there would not be general agreement across the house with regard to those ideas. for too long we have been hoisted with the petard of failed ideologies of the past, the failure to look to the new frontiers which come before us and to meet those challenges head on. we have played safe by falling back into the comfort zone of either past imperialistic ideals or post-fascist commands or even, dare i say it, new 20th-century thinking with regard to human life and human rights. because the complexity of the world today is very different and far more varied than what can be offered by any one single ideology or any one single plan. and rightly you mention the importance of engaging with other governments around the world: with china to solve the problem of chad and of sudan, ensuring that the problems with regard to africa and the developing world are met head on. we are already commemorating today the lives of seven peacekeepers in sudan who have lost their lives under a united nations mandate, simply because of a failure of governments to intervene properly and put pressure on the authorities in chad and in sudan to protect the lives of refugees and asylum seekers. it is all very well to speak woolly words here in parliament about the importance of immigration and allowing the free movement of people. it is better if we allow people to stay at home. i come from ireland, a nation that had to export 12 million of its people over a hundred years. none of them wanted to leave ireland. they were forced to leave ireland. if we give people the opportunity to remain in their own countries, give them support through the mechanisms of the policies that we set up, whether in trade or other areas, then we can do it. finally, mr president-in-office, you spoke earlier about how you felt the legitimacy of your position in bringing the ratification of the lisbon treaty before the parliament was the only way to do it. i agree with you. that is right for france. but equally legitimate is the right to have a referendum and that should always be protected. it is not an either/or. there are problems and difficulties with regard to the result in ireland, but that is not just a problem with regard to ireland’s relationship with europe. it is reflective of a deeper malaise for the people and europe.
mr president, i welcome president sarkozy to the european parliament. i certainly appreciated his considered and well-argued contribution. as an irish member i will also welcome him when he visits ireland as president of the eu, as a president who is taking practical steps to improve the lives of citizens. that was clear from his priorities. i also appreciate his comments on food security and about finding a balance when imposing regulations and restrictions on our own businesses and farmers. as he said himself, protecting without protectionism. i could hear in his presentation and in his voice his commitment to europe. i and very many irish people share that commitment. he spoke about overcoming our difficulties. that will take time and a willingness to compromise on all sides. there can be no deadlines. as somebody who canvassed for a ‘yes’ vote, i know he will agree with me when i say that an irish ‘no’ is just as legitimate as a french, dutch or danish ‘no’. it must be given the same respect, then we can move forward. we can make progress. i look forward to that, and i wish him well in his presidency.
mr president, it took ireland 700 years to get the british out of the republic of ireland and i have to sit here time and again listening to people we threw out telling us what we should be doing in ireland. i think it is a little bit too much. please let a decision in the republic of ireland be made by the people of the republic of ireland. secondly, i should like to say to the president of the french republic: if you want to change the people of ireland’s opinion, bring mr le pen with you. that will be enough to change the opinion of the people of the republic of ireland. i was director of elections for fine gael, which is part of the european people’s party, for four european referendums: the single european act, the maastricht treaty, the amsterdam treaty and the lisbon treaty, and i want to say to you that the lisbon treaty was lost for a variety of reasons. people did not understand it; the government has been in power since 1994; politicians are appearing at tribunals of enquiry; the main government and opposition parties – the political establishment – wanted it passed. there were fears concerning defence and conscription, abortion and euthanasia – accompanied by syringes circulated by members of this house – taxation, jobs, immigration. much of this was led by the extremes on the right and on the left. i would just say this to the president-in-office. please prepare for your visit to ireland. if it is important that you help change the situation in ireland, please come prepared and come prepared to listen. you will be very welcome, but it is complex and it will take some time to resolve what is a difficult situation.
mr president, when mass graves are found, wherever they are found, it is imperative to find out who the victims are, how and why they were killed, who is investigating and who is being investigated. rather than being an incendiary activity, it establishes the truth and honours the humanity of the victims, and that is the start of establishing the truth that sets us all free.
mr president, i should like to take this time to point out the effect that the implementation of the energy-using products directive will have on a company in my constituency that has expertise in this heating field. they inform me that the current proposal for implementation in relation to boilers will have a severe and unnecessary impact on ireland’s central heating industry, which employs many people in my constituency. current proposals for boilers will require manufacturers to apply an energy-rating label to the boiler, as well as heating controls, pumps and some renewables. these labelling proposals overlook the key role of the professional installer. installers are a vital part of the heating supply chain, and the commission’s approach will mean their expertise will be largely ignored or wasted. the commission’s proposals will fundamentally change the entire irish domestic heating market, with wider implications in terms of restricted choice, misleading information for consumers, higher costs and a less flexible and competitive market, as well as loss of employment. ahead of the commission’s consultation forum, i should like the commission to listen to the experts when considering the effects of this directive on ireland.
mr president, the consumer rights of air passengers travelling from third countries who are transiting through eu hub airports are being breached. thousands of eu citizens continue to have their liquid duty-free purchases confiscated because of the failure of the commission to speedily implement regulation (ec) no 915/2007, which amends regulation (ec) no 622/2003 laying down measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security. thirteen non-eu countries have applied for recognition under the regulation, but only one has been approved. i would appeal through you, mr president, to again ask our new commissioner, antonio tajani, to sort this issue out and implement the regulation as quickly as possible. many competitors at the olympic games in beijing – and, indeed, their supporters and families – had goods taken from them transiting back through the main hub airports in europe when coming home. again, the complaints have been coming in in their dozens. please sort this out. it is not in the interests of consumer rights, and it is a farce if we are quoting security reasons.
madam president, despite ireland’s military neutrality, ireland is not neutral, or indeed unconcerned, about the crisis that has erupted in georgia. there is deep public concern that powerful people on all sides seem to want a new cold war, and worry about the self-destructive talk of sanctions against russia. knee-jerk reactions will not build or guarantee peace or justice for the people of the region, or indeed anywhere else. essentially, russia has fired a warning shot across our bows. the eu’s response must be to use its resources to build new eu institutions capable of negotiating binding multilateral agreements. we must seek to build a new peaceful world in partnership with russia, not in opposition to it.
mr president, as a legal practitioner who has dealt with cross-border claims, it is not all rosy in the garden as might be suggested in the report. while i welcome the report, some of the kind of problems that i have come across are problems where there is legal cost insurance and where the claimants are finding it difficult to recover costs on the basis of it. these claimants have gone through court procedures and expended monies in order to validate their claims and then find that, on the one hand, the insurer of the offending party which caused the accident is not paying the full costs of putting the case together, and on the other hand, their own insurance company, with whom they had insurance for covering legal costs, is also not paying up and is walking away from its responsibilities. this is an area that we need to look at and be very careful about. i had one case, for instance, where we had to pay eur 30 000 for a forensic accountant’s report and where we were not allowed to recover the full cost of that report. although the person had their own insurance, they were not able to add their own insurance policy for costs and were not able to recover under that policy either. that is a matter that we need to look at and make sure that it is properly monitored.
mr president, the leader of the alde group, mr watson, says that a job is the best social welfare. unfortunately there are too many millions of people in europe working for less than what they might get if they were drawing social welfare. the poor and the low-paid die younger, suffer more physical and mental illness, are hospitalised more, are imprisoned more, are excluded from participating fully in society, are denied full cultural, civil, social, and indeed secure lives, and their children are largely condemned to the same vicious cycle of deprivation – unless, that is, we as politicians pursue social and economic policies which are integrated and interdependent. people must be treated as citizens, not as economic units. does this agenda achieve this? regretfully, no. this is not to deny the positive elements – for instance the horizontal directive on discrimination. nor indeed do i deny that commissioner špidla has struggled hard in a hostile environment to get this package approved. we will work with him to make it better. the commission and the council have nine months to prove their bona fides on social europe. the people will then give their verdict.
mr president, i just wanted a word on the bowles report, which was on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud. to read that, one would think it would be very difficult to be against the report or indeed any parts of it. the reality is that while i fully support a coordinated approach in the fight against fiscal fraud – and we do need serious examination and coordination in this area – any suggestion of tax approximation and/or a decrease in tax competition throughout the eu of 27 member states as part of the solution in the fight against fiscal fraud is wholly unacceptable. i am not sure if europe – as in the commission – realises the damage that is being done in member states by constant references to centralising, controlling or reducing member state competence in the tax area in any way. it was a huge issue – albeit a non-issue in terms of relevance to the lisbon treaty – during the debate on our referendum on 12 june. would that we could, but we could not dissuade those that feared europe – as in the european institutions’ wish to control tax centrally in varying degrees for varying reasons – that the lisbon treaty lent any support to that concept. please be very wary of messing in this particular area.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote because i am in favour of sustainable fisheries everywhere and i support the coastal communities and fishermen of ireland. the common fisheries policy, while focusing on both of these ends, has led to the opposite: destruction of the marine environment, decrease of fish and impoverishment of the marine environment.
in writing. − i fully support the fight against fiscal fraud and recognise that there needs to be close cooperation between administrative authorities in each member state and the commission in order to achieve this. however, i do not support the inference in the explanatory memo that the introduction of the ccctb is in any way necessary to counter fiscal fraud. at this stage the ccctb is only a technical proposition, there is no communication proposed and as such it is premature to suggest that it could help in the fight against fiscal fraud.
i scríbhinn. − táim sásta tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo a aithníonn an gá atá le straitéis a fhorbairt chun dul i ngleic le calaois chánach. cé gur faoi inniúlacht na mballstát don chuid is mó é na beartais éifeachtacha a chur i bhfeidhm tá comhoibriú ar leibhéal na heorpa riachtanach. ní ceart, áfach, ualach riaracháin díréirach a chur ar ghnó, go háirithe ar ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide agus i gcomhthéacs bheartas an choimisiúin an ró-oifigiúlachas agus an t-ualach maorlathach a laghdú. thugas tacaíocht do leasú an údair a chuireann béim ar an tábhacht do ghéilleagar an aontais eorpaigh iomaíocht chóir a spreagadh i leith cánach. tá díomá orm go ndearna an t-údar céanna tagairt do ccctb sa mheabhrán mínithe. níl dóthain staidéir déanta ar ccctb chun a áitiú go mbeadh tionchar dearfach ag a leithéid de chóras cánach agus is dóigh go bhfuil níos mó fianaise ann gur a mhalairt a bheadh an cás. bunaithe ar dhrochthuairimíocht atá an ráiteas seo agus ós rud é nach bhfuil sé ach sa mheabhrán mínithe ní féidir linn vótáil ar an ábhar seo. de thoradh sin, ba mhaith liom an deis seo a thapú mo dhíomá a chur in iúl agus agóid a dhéanamh ar an mbonn sin.
a uachtaráin, tá sé riachtanach go mbeadh fáil ag gach uile dhuine i ngach uile pharóiste, beag nó mór, faoin tuath nó sna bailte nó sna cathracha ar bhanda leathan agus ar theicneolaíocht nua-aimseartha. bíonn comhlachtaí a lonnaíonn iad féin i gceantair áirithe ag brath go mór ar sheirbhís idirlín sciobtha. mura bhfuil seirbhís bhanda leathan i gceantair áirithe ní bheifear in ann infheistíocht agus comhlachtaí a mhealladh chun cur fúthu sna ceantair sin. tá sé thar a bheith riachtanach go dtabharfadh rialtais aghaidh ar an míchothromaíocht atá idir ceantair tuaithe agus ceantair uirbeacha maidir le seirbhísí digiteacha agus banda leathan go háirithe ó thaobh iomaíocht agus infheistíocht a chinntiú do na ceantair sin. tá seo thar a bheith soiléir i mo thír féin, in éirinn, áit a bhfuil an mhíchothromaíocht ann mar gheall go bhfuil comhlacht príobháideach, eircom, i seilbh an ghréasáin idirlín agus go bhfuil éagothromaíocht uafásach idir na ceantair tuaithe agus na ceantair uirbheacha. bheinn ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisinéir féachaint air seo mar, de réir cosúlachta, níl an rialtóir náisiúnta ná an rialtas in ann é seo a dhéanamh.
madam president, channels of communications are vitally important to our lives today. the availability of broadband needs to be ensured, particularly for those in remote areas and those who are challenged, such as the visually impaired. while we enjoy the freedom which the internet affords, we must recognise that with freedom come responsibilities. i am a committed proponent of net neutrality. as the world becomes more globalised it is crucial that people have the ability to communicate freely. however, this freedom, which is of great value, must be used with respect. it must be recognised that without this respect the internet harbours the potential for abuse. we have taken action on some of the worst abuses on the internet, such as paedophilia. however, other abuses also need to be tackled. internet service providers must play their part in preventing their platform being used for destructive forces like libel, hate and exploitation. i would say to the commissioner that we need to do everything in our power to protect freedom and, at the same time, to promote responsibility on the internet.
my thanks to the council. i may have missed it, but i did not hear the minister’s response to the second part of mr evans’s question in relation to the post-irish referendum climate at council. first of all, could he indicate exactly what the post-irish referendum climate at council is, and whether it is impacting on the processing of the applications from croatia, turkey and the other european states which are named? in other words, what is the position now; post the irish referendum, at the council table in relation to these applications?
president of the council. - first of all, in reply to mr paleckis, i think he is absolutely right. it is true that there is an effort to be made in education and information to make these remote but european regions better known to the european citizens. i note that they appear on the euro banknotes, which is already a step forward. but we must go further and make an effort to inform and communicate. i would like to say to mrs doyle that the question as it is put is very broad. the commission has therefore decided to focus on the negotiations under way. as far as the council is concerned, the negotiations are proceeding on the basis of the proposals made by the commission on the basis of the screening reports, which is quite normal. we also indicated that we were prepared to deepen relations with a number of other countries, i am thinking in particular of the balkan countries, and that we wished, in view of the efforts that had been made, beyond croatia, to have a strengthening of relations with serbia but also with other countries, i am thinking in particular of bosnia and montenegro. finally, there is the matter of partnerships. we will have an important summit between the european union and ukraine on 9 september and in the current context of the war between russia and georgia, we also intend to try to develop the partnership with ukraine and, as you know, yesterday we took into account the fact that we should strengthen the relationship with georgia. that is for the purpose of the negotiations under way. then there is the question of what the lisbon treaty is, and if we do not have the lisbon treaty, a number of member states, including the one i represent - if i leave the eu presidency - have said that the current treaty is indeed a 27-nation treaty and that we do need the lisbon treaty to enlarge. that is where the council's thinking is very honestly coming from, dear mrs doyle.
president of the council. - your very important question was discussed at the european council, particularly at its meeting last march, where it was stated that in a highly competitive global environment, the risk of carbon leakage exists in certain sectors, such as energy-intensive industries, which are particularly exposed to international competition. this is a real problem which must be analysed and solved in the context of a new directive establishing a system of trading quotas in the community. the best way to deal with carbon leakage and thus preserve the efficiency of the community's emissions trading system is to have an international agreement, mrs doyle, but it is clear that we must also be prepared to act if we do not have an international agreement and we are currently discussing what measures might be most appropriate to ensure the competitiveness of our industry, while ensuring that the union is the most exemplary in the fight against greenhouse gases. we believe that this is important so that industrialists of all kinds have sufficient visibility for their investments, especially at a time when the economic situation has deteriorated and we are facing a slowdown in international growth, which all indications are that it will be in the same situation next year. in the proposal for a directive, the commission undertakes, in the light of the results of the international negotiations, to present an analysis report accompanied by appropriate proposals to deal with possible problems related to the risks of carbon leakage. there are two possible options: either to adjust the proportion of free allowances and/or to integrate into the community system importers of products manufactured by energy-intensive industries, while ensuring that the system is compatible with world trade organisation standards. we, as the council presidency, hope that the council, of course, but also your assembly, will be able to clarify these elements so that europe has a clean and competitive industrial base and that we know, as soon as possible, what the applicable mechanisms will be, that is before 2011.
i accept that border adjustment measures must be part of our toolkit, but on the shelf, used as a carrot and not as a stick in facing any international negotiations where, in good faith, we tried to arrive at an international agreement to combat climate change. could the minister please comment on article 20 of the wto which allows for such a contingency, that is, a ban where conservation of exhaustible ‘natural resources’ are threatened? will carbon dioxide reduction goals come within that definition as clean air has heretofore? i would like the minister to develop his thoughts on this.
president of the council. - madam president, mrs doyle, i think that on the one hand we must study the various possible measures, and you are right, in an incentive spirit, so as to ensure that we are not exempted from the obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and, on the other hand, that we must strike the right balance with industrialists' demands which are not always 'fair' in this respect. as regards article 20, we believe that this measure does indeed meet a legitimate objective of conserving exhaustible natural resources within the meaning of article 20 of the wto and, according to our expertise, is thus in line with the rules of international trade law.
president of the council. - madam president, i will remain in my role as president and remain calm in the face of these absolutely unjustified and unjustified attacks, because we are certainly not the only ones doing business in poor countries! more seriously, i believe that the mechanisms we are considering, and i am responding to what mrs doyle said earlier, are not a stick to the developing countries. but very objectively, in the context of balancing competitiveness and the fight against greenhouse gases, we must have a good balance with our major partners. and our major partners are the united states, which, as far as i know, does not have the same obligations today as we do in this area, japan, which also has fewer obligations and makes less effort, russia, which i have been told for a long time that it does not have the same values and that we must also know how to talk to it realistically, and that it is a major emerging power, brazil, india and of course china, which is a member of the world trade organization. i therefore do not see how we can stop being realistic and become naive. we must both lead by example in the fight against global warming. europe is a leader in this area and must remain so and must maintain an advantage in international negotiations, including in copenhagen next year. but in this context, it has absolutely no qualms about defending its interests against powers that are at least as rich as we are. and as has been pointed out by other speakers in previous questions, we too know our pockets of poverty in europe.
president of the council. - mr burke, your question concerns three aspects which are closely linked to cooperation and development: aid effectiveness, the millennium development goals and the volume of aid. your question is truly timely at the time of the third high-level forum on aid effectiveness in accra, which is meeting from today, and less than a month before the high-level meeting on the millennium development goals, which will be held in new york on 25 september. the international monitoring conference on financing for development, which will review the implementation of the monterey consensus, will be another major event, taking place in doha from 29 november to 2 december. the council is actively working on all these conferences and has adopted a number of conclusions since last june. as regards aid effectiveness, the council recognises that, despite progress, much remains to be done. sectors or projects where the union can make a difference and add value compared to other donors should be identified. it is also likely that national systems will have to be used and that aid recipients will have to be made more accountable. this is our objective, particularly in the context of the accra meeting, and we want to have an ambitious strategic declaration in the context of the accra action plan, with strong, precise and measurable objectives and a timetable for their implementation, so that our partners are aware of the need to be more effective in providing aid. the second point concerns the millennium development goals. their achievement in the context of sustainable development is a shared responsibility of all partners, both donor and recipient countries, who must respect the commitments made. the european union's action programme on these millennium development goals was adopted by the council last june and we have set a number of intermediate objectives to achieve them. finally, as regards the volume of aid, it is true that we are concerned about the reduction in the collective volume of official development assistance, which fell from eur 47.7 billion in 2006 to eur 46 billion in 2007. but despite this reduction, europe remains the main donor, particularly in africa, and the reduction in aid, we hope, will be only temporary. if the statistics provided by the various member states are correct, we should have a very large oda volume in 2008 and the objectives we had under the millennium for 2010 and 2015 should be achieved. the council has therefore asked the member states to provide indicative forecast timetables on the evolution of their official development assistance.
concerning cooperation within developing countries, i came across one case where the eu was giving eur 1.2 million to a project in ethiopia, and found that 17% vat was being applied by the ethiopian government. i wonder, therefore, whether we have made any progress in dealing with developing countries that are receiving development aid. i also wonder whether we have had any indications from member states at this stage as to what provisions they are making in their 2009 budgets for aid contributions in 2009. will there be a reduction owing to the economic downturn in many countries, and is the presidency being proactive with member states to ensure that this is not the case?
president of the council. - i will have to return to mr burke to give him more complete answers because at this stage i have no information on the evolution of the member states' proposals on the 2009 budget itself. what i said was that we asked for indicative budgets. but i suggest that mr burke should come back to the council and that the council departments should give him the very precise details as soon as they have received them - i am told that we have only partial details - so that he can have these details very soon as regards the 2009 budget. if mr burke will allow me, i will do the same with ethiopia to see whether the aid linked to the application of vat has been respected.
president of the council. - mr higgins, the three multinational battalions which make up eufor forces in chad and the central african republic are now fully operational in eastern chad and the central african republic. the force of about 3 200 men can now carry out all the missions assigned to it by the council. i would remind you that albania, croatia and russia are also taking part in this force, which will soon deploy four helicopters on the ground. ukraine has entered into negotiations but has not yet followed up. the operation, as you know, is being commanded by your compatriot general nash, to whom the presidency of the council would like to pay special tribute for his professionalism. following the joint eu/un assessment mission to chad and the central african republic from 18 to 24 june, mr solana reported and made recommendations on the arrangements for the un monitoring of the operation. the report by mr solana was approved by the council on 25 june and is the basis for the report by the secretary-general of the united nations, which will be discussed shortly in the security council. since its deployment, eufor has acted impartially, independently and neutrally, i would like to stress this. it contributed to the security of eastern chad and northeastern central african republic by deploying a significant and deterrent force in a few months, away from european bases and in a very hostile environment, by its presence alone, patrolling the entire area and helping to reduce insecurity, providing escorts to humanitarian organisations who requested them, facilitating the opening of routes, protecting desired sites or offering alternative solutions to enable them to carry out their missions, and finally, it also contributed to ensuring that the local police and gendarmerie could take further action and expand their usual range of action. acting within its mandate, its actions were noted during the rebel attacks on gozbeida and biltine in mid-june last year, as it evacuated and then sheltered and secured around 300 humanitarian personnel who requested it and also prevented the looting of the market in the town of gozbeida. the irish troops securing a displaced persons site also had to respond to direct fire with great efficiency. in july, during clashes between the dadjo and mouro communities in kerfi, eufor sent a reinforced company to secure the area and evacuate some 30 humanitarian personnel. the coordination - i want to stress this - between eufor and the un mission, minurca, which is operating in the central african republic and chad is very good and, as i have said, the coordination between eufor and the humanitarian agencies is also excellent.
nuair a thiocfaidh deireadh leis an séasúr báistiúil nach dócha go mbrisfidh cogadh amach idir fórsaí an rialtais agus fórsaí na gceannaircí? an féidir leis an gcomhairle a insint dúinn na bailte eile atá ullmhaithe chun páirt a ghlacadh sa mhisean chomh fada agus a bhaineann le trúpaí, le gléasra agus b'fhéidir le hairgead chomh maith?
president of the council. − eufor has not been involved in the clashes between the government and the rebels, and it is scrupulously careful to carry out its mission in the most impartial way possible and to keep a genuine distance from clashes linked to the domestic problems between the government and the rebels. it shall implement its mandate in a neutral manner, not interfering in the internal affairs of chad and the central african republic, and shall ensure, in particular, that it contributes to the security of eastern chad and north-eastern central african republic. every time it intervened in the clashes and incidents i have mentioned, it was because humanitarian missions were in danger. it was in the context of the protection of these missions that it intervened.
i was in chad in march of this year three weeks after the rebel offensive. i spent six days there meeting different groups, and one of the things that came across to me was the need to bring representatives of the rebel groups to the table. i am just wondering if any progress has been made on that, either by the un or by the european union in the sense that, at the moment, i understand that there are between 7 000 to 10 000 people under 18 years of age carrying arms. if any progress is to be made, then the rebel groups have to be brought to the table by someone. i am just wondering whether any progress has been made on that.
i just wanted to ask the minister briefly about his views on the future of this mission. it is, i believe, supposed to end next march. does he foresee the mission continuing under the ufor flag for perhaps a further six months after that, or perhaps continuing under the un flag? does he envisage any possibility that the mission might end next march? as i said, i would just like his views on the future of the mission.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am pleased to be here tonight, although i would have preferred it to have been a bit earlier. nevertheless it is important that this report be debated in parliament. this report concerns a complaint of maladministration against the commission. the case has been referred to the european parliament by way of a special report from the european ombudsman. referring a special report to the european parliament is the last substantive step the ombudsman may take in seeking a satisfactory response on behalf of a citizen. it is therefore a rare occasion on which reports of this kind are taken here. my report, on behalf of the committee on petitions, endorses the ombudsman’s conclusion that the failure of the commission to deal with the petitioner’s complaint within what was objectively established by the ombudsman as several years’ unjustified delay constitutes an instance of maladministration. i would emphasise here that this report does not deal with the content of european law but with the manner in which the commission failed to deal with a complaint, and i therefore want to indicate that i am not accepting the single amendment which has been tabled by the gue/ngl group to this report, which seeks to introduce elements relating to the law itself. in the original complaint to the commission in 2001, the complainant, a doctor working in germany, requested that the commission open infringement proceedings against germany, arguing that that country infringed council directive 93/104/ec, commonly known as the ‘working time directive’. the case was that germany’s transposition of that directive insofar as the activity of doctors and hospitals was concerned, in particular as regards time spent on call by these doctors, was in breach of the directive. in the complainant’s view, this resulted in a considerable risk for both staff and patients. the ombudsman found with regard to that compliant that the 15 months it had taken the commission before it started to deal with the complaint was a case of maladministration. in the mean time, new german legislation seeking to properly transpose the directive was put in place, and the commission informed the complainant that it needed time to examine this new legislation in order to consider its compatibility with community law and whether or not it had dealt effectively with the complaint that had been made. then, in 2004, it informed the complainant that it had adopted new proposals to amend the original directive, and it would examine the complaint in the light of those proposals. one year later, in 2005, the complainant again had to turn to the ombudsman to the effect that the commission was ignoring the ombudsman’s earlier findings. there is no evidence, since that proposal was prepared in 2004, that the commission has taken any further steps in order to proceed with its investigation of the doctor’s complaint. instead of taking one of two possible decisions – either to initiate formal infringement proceedings or to close the case – the commission abstained from taking any further action as regards its investigation. indeed, the fact that the directive was due for amendment (which, incidentally, has still not occurred – and this is now 2008) is in no way relevant to the complaint. community law does not envisage the possibility of disregarding existing laws and judgments on the grounds that new rules are being considered and may be introduced. my report further asks the commission to provide a list naming the member states whose legislation is not in line with all the provisions of the working time directive and specifying the action it is taking with regard to this. it urges the commission to take prompt action in accordance with its prerogatives in all cases and in all member states where the transposition of implementation, or implementation of the existing directives, does not comply with the law laid down by the legislative branch, and indeed the european court of justice. i recommend this report to the house.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr de rossa for his report. i listened very carefully to the commission’s response, and i would like to repeat that this report is about how the commission dealt with a complaint. while the subject matter was obviously very controversial and topical, what we are talking about here tonight in this debate is how the commission deals with complaints. we support the ombudsman’s conclusions in relation to the inordinate delay, as acknowledged by the commission this evening in this house. let me just say that, on the point of complaints, people get in touch with the commission because they have a problem and expect some sort of response – perhaps not an immediate one, but certainly nothing that takes months and years. i would bring to your attention an issue concerning equitable life, where we had some light-touch regulation and not great clarity about how community law was actually being implemented – and we have seen the dire consequences of that particular issue. lastly, there is a current complaint with the commission about the application of irish planning law. while the commission was very active and supportive initially, i fear that there is now a silence. i would like some progress on that issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de rossa, on his excellent report. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am always very conscious of the fact that for many eu citizens we are the face of the eu. when i say ‘we’ i mean the committee on petitions itself, and the commission, which also evaluates petitions. in this particular instance, the complainant was effectively ignored and the ombudsman’s verdict was that this constituted maladministration. i am pleased to see that the rapporteur and the committee on petitions agree with his position. european citizens have a right to expect that the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, will ensure that european legislation is implemented in a timely and effective manner. they have the right to expect a timely response as well as an effective one, and while the commission has discretion as to how to proceed in a certain case – i.e. whether or not to instigate infringement proceedings – it does not have the discretion to fail to adopt a position within a reasonable amount of time, which was the case in this matter. with regard to amendment 1, this is a matter that needs to be dealt with, but separately from this report. finally, just a personal comment on the work of the committee on petitions: sending in a petition is, for many citizens, their only contact with the eu institutions. it is crucial that this system works in an effective and transparent manner. the commission is part of the process, but so too is parliament. we must ensure that sufficient resources are available to the committee to carry out its work in an effective and timely manner. to fully understand this issue, we need to put ourselves in the shoes of the petitioner and see it from their perspective. as an individual or a small group they are taking on the system. if the system does not respond in an effective manner they see it as a bureaucratic nightmare, and this alienates the petitioner and probably everybody they speak to about the matter. for the sake of the public and of the eu, that is something we must not do.
mr president, i have two points. firstly, i should like to endorse what ms harkin said in relation to resources. perhaps there is a problem within the commission in terms of resources: if there is, we should hear that. secondly, it takes a very strong-minded citizen to persist with a complaint that is being ignored, and i fear for the many who do not have the time, resources or, perhaps, the ability to keep pushing against the system. how many of those fall by the wayside – or, indeed, is there ever a record kept?
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, let me just highlight a few basic things that i think are still worth talking about. in this case, we're dealing with one lawsuit. this action does not constitute a general rule, as responding in a timely manner to citizens' requests is a fundamental matter and one of the most important duties, and i think that a detailed examination of the scope of the agenda will make it clear that the commission is acting consistently in these cases. this case was exceptional precisely because its consequences could have affected individual member states as a whole. therefore, in 2004, the commission exercised its discretion and proceeded as it had proceeded. at that point, i think time has clearly shown that this was not an entirely optimal decision, but it is a decision that was within the commission's discretion. i would like to point out that infringement cases based on non-compliance with the law on the working time directive are already proceeding at a normal pace, because, as i said, whatever the decision of my court was based on very serious grounds, time has shown that it was not optimal.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone who has stayed back tonight and participated in this debate, and also the commissioner for his response to the debate. his acknowledgement that there were, in fact, exceptional delays, and that it was not, perhaps, appropriate that that delay should occur, is welcome. nevertheless, there is still a difference of opinion between the committee on petitions and the ombudsman on the commission’s interpretation of its right not to deal with a complaint when it considers that it should not. we are of the view that this discretion does not extend to an eight-year delay, which is what we are talking about here. i welcome the fact that the commissioner has announced the publication of a report within two months which will outline the compliance of all of the member states, including as regards the particular complaint that we are dealing with here tonight. i believe that earlier action by the commission could well have driven earlier change in the working time directive, and might perhaps have resulted in forestalling, at an earlier date, the risks which patients and, indeed, doctors and nurses in the health service in our hospitals have run over these years, where they have been working and on call for anything up to 100 hours a week. i think the dispute on this issue highlights the weakness of the current infringement procedures, and the manner in which political considerations as well as resource considerations can come into play on sensitive issues, which should be dealt with in accordance with the law rather than in accordance with political sensitivities. finally, it has to be said that normally complaints of this kind are dealt with between the ombudsman and the agency, the commission or indeed the council, against whom complaints have been made. it is very rare that we have to deal with this matter in this house. it is a rare occasion that this house is asked to endorse the decision of the ombudsman against the commission. it is a cause of deep regret for me that we have to do this but, unfortunately, that is the case. therefore, i would like the commissioner at some point to indicate, concede and acknowledge that he has accepted that the delay was not acceptable; i would also like to hear from him a commitment that some procedures will be put in place to ensure that complaints will never again be allow to run to this length of time.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes the report and the motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the european union. the adoption of the report underlines parliament's commitment to equality between women and men and confirms parliament's support for the commission's approach. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs garcia pérez, in particular, for her support for the european commission's action in this area. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union. it is also an area where europe has often been ahead of social developments. and also, in recent years, she's launched some important and ambitious initiatives here. the adoption of the plan for the elimination of discrimination against women underlined the commission's willingness to use all means to bring europe closer to genuine equality between women and men in all areas. the commission further notes that the parliament's draft resolution emphasises certain topics included in the priorities of the plan. this is particularly the case for women's status in the labour market, work-life balance, balanced representation in management positions and the fight against violence against women. this approach is in line with the commission's policy in this area and includes the themes highlighted in the 2008 report. while progress has been made in the area of gender equality, important challenges remain. we must continue our efforts to strengthen the legal base. the commission shares the rapporteur's view that reconciling work and private life is central to achieving effective equality between men and women. we know that it is mostly women who take on the responsibilities of the family and the home. this is why women are also more likely than men to be forced to interrupt their studies and professional careers, and very often never to return. the availability of quality and affordable childcare services is therefore key to increasing women's employment. the commission will present a report on developments in this area in the coming weeks. in addition, the commission consulted the social partners on reconciliation of work and private life in 2006 and 2007. they indicated their intention to negotiate parental leave in july 2008. the commission will therefore not present a proposal on this subject at this stage. the commission intends to present in the near future a package of initiatives on work-life balance, in particular a report on childcare, a proposal for a directive amending the maternity leave directive and a proposal for a directive amending the 1986 directive on assisting spouses. the current situation of assisting spouses is unacceptable in agriculture, but also in other sectors where family businesses exist. it is not acceptable that people who work regularly for a family business have no social security rights in some countries and find themselves in a state of extreme need in the event of divorce, the death of a self-employed person or economic difficulties. equality policies are essential to prevent and combat gender-based violence, since it is rooted in the imbalance of power between men and women. effective action against gender-based violence, on the other hand, contributes to the effective protection of women's rights in society and to the promotion of equality. violence against women is unacceptable. rape, sexual exploitation of girls, trafficking in women for sexual or labour exploitation, domestic violence, harassment in the workplace as well as traditional or harmful practices such as female genital mutilation violate women's health, freedom, dignity and physical and emotional integrity. our intervention must be strong and particularly effective, especially in cases where violence against women is perpetrated by organised international criminal groups, as in the case of trafficking in human beings. the commission is therefore considering, in its 2009 work programme, to revise and strengthen the legislation on trafficking in human beings, the exploitation and sexual abuse of children, a terrible crime committed primarily against girls. in conclusion, equality policy plays a crucial role in changing thinking and behaviour. it is therefore crucial to ensure not only legal equality but also de facto equality between women and men. the commission therefore welcomes the support which the european parliament has given it by this motion for a resolution.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, first of all i would like to say that this is a very comprehensive report and highlights many of the issues that must be dealt with in order to ensure equality between women and men. i am particularly pleased to see that the issue of violence against women is dealt with, because for too many people violence against women is seen as a women’s issue, whereas in fact it is a societal issue, and until it is dealt with as a societal issue we cannot hope to eliminate it. furthermore, i agree with the rapporteur and her statement about the feminisation of poverty and about the groups that are particularly at risk, as well as the central issue of ensuring equal access to pensions and social welfare payments. in this context, i would like to have seen paragraph 14 from my opinion taken on board, where i make this case specifically for carers. given that by 2030 the ratio of active to inactive people will be 2:1, the role of family carers will become much more significant, and given that there are already 100 million carers in the eu – men and women but predominantly women – without proper access to social welfare payments or pensions, we need to ensure that this generation of carers does not become the next generation of poorer, older people adding to the feminisation of poverty. finally a personal comment on paragraph 9 which does not reflect the views of the employment committee: i believe that the text should be qualified by stating the need to respect national legislative processes when considering the issue of abortion. there is a protocol to the treaty of maastricht which ensures that eu law will not override article 40.3.3 of the irish constitution on the protection of the unborn. during the lisbon debate in ireland, many citizens said to me that the eu was intent on pushing to have abortion available in ireland. even though i said that this was not the case, many still argued that parliament was pushing the agenda, and that is why i believe our intention needs to be clear. the issue is not one’s view on abortion. mine, i suspect, may be different to that of the rapporteur, but that is not the point. the issue is one of subsidiarity, and citizens, whatever their position on abortion, need to be able to rely on that. i believe all of us in this parliament should respect that as well.
mr president, lest mr purvis think he is alone, let me try and walk a middle line. this is a very worthy debate and it is a shame it is being held at this late hour. i listened to the first part in my office and it was riveting – which can be rare for a european parliament debate – because it is practical. i would like to mention a number of points. what concerns me in the debate now is the link between genetically-modified foods and the cloning of animals. i am not among those calling for a ban on gmos, because in ireland we use a large volume of genetically-modified animal feed ingredients and need to continue doing that. the concerns on cloning, well voiced by the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr parish, are on the welfare side, and clearly there is concern that animals suffer. that is an issue that needs to be looked at. calling for a ban on cloned animals in food production may not address that issue if the research stage of that process is concerned. therefore, while my immediate reaction as a member of the committee on agriculture was to support this resolution – i am glad we raised this issue and applaud the committee and its chair for doing so – my gut instinct now is that mr purvis is perhaps on the right track, and that an outright ban might be a step too far. i await the commission’s very considered opinion.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, baineann comhshaoil agus sláinte phoiblí le gach saoránach agus baineann an reachtaíocht seo leis an dhá rud sin go díreach. vótáil an pharlaimint seo ar son an chórais reach, córas atá i bhfeidhm faoi láthair agus córas a chosnóidh sláinte an duine agus an timpeallacht ón mbaol a bhaineann le ceimiceáin. tá sé mar aidhm ag reach a chinntiú go ndéanann déantóirí agus lucht importála clárú, athréimniú agus údarú ar cheimiceáin. is cuid lárnach den chóras é eolas faoi na ceimiceáin a bheith ar lipéid don phobal. molaim an reachtaíocht seo agus molaim an coimisiún as ucht chóras an ae a chur ar chomhchéim leis an gcóras unghs (un globally harmonised system of classification and labelling). trí úsáid a bhaint as picteagraim beidh an pobal ar an eolas faoi thionchar na gceimiceán ó thaobh baol pléascach, dóiteán, ailse nó nimh. beidh buntáiste ann do thionscail de réir mar a bheidh tíortha an domhain ag glacadh leis an gcóras ghs. beidh breis muiníne ag an bpobal as ceimiceáin mar chomhartha le lipéid shoiléire, dhochta.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, chemicals are a natural and important part of our environment. even though we often do not think about it, we use chemicals every day. the modern world could not function without them. they keep our food fresh, our bodies clean, they help our plants to grow, they fuel our cars. properly used and properly handled, chemicals make it possible for us to live longer, healthier lives. this proposed regulation, which complements reach and aligns the eu system for classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures with the un globally harmonised system, is a reasonable and balanced proposal. if we want to utilise the benefits of chemicals at a reasonable cost then we have to accept that there will be risks. we need therefore to strike a balance between risks and benefits and control the risks of chemicals through careful labelling, science-based regulation and innovative technologies. we also need to strike a balance between properly implementing the european union’s international obligations signed up to at the united nations economic and social council at the world summit on sustainable development which was held in johannesburg in september 2002, while at the same time avoiding unnecessary burdens on business through impractical and over-demanding labelling. to this effect, i tabled several amendments to the proposal. i feel it is particularly important to ensure that classification of products does not lead to confusion among consumers or health care providers. too much information is equal to no information. this is why i tabled an amendment on the packaging of products, for example, with awkward shapes or that are so small that it is technically impossible to attach a label. in these cases, hazard labelling information should be supplied in some other appropriate manner such as tie-on tags. i would like to thank particularly the rapporteur, mrs sartori, for supporting my amendments and for the excellent work she has done on this report. while existing regulations on identifying and communicating the hazardous properties of chemicals are similar in many respects, some differences are significant enough to result in different classification, different labelling and safety data sheets (sds). the globally harmonised system (ghs) will hopefully merge these different classifications in an effective way. the benefits of chemical use far outweigh the risks and this is especially so since the introduction of the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals legislation known as reach. we must all be aware that chemicals, through the different steps from their production to their handling, transport and use can pose potential risks to human health and the environment. in this context, the un-eu ghs agreement is expected to be an improvement in human health and environmental protection and will also offer greater clarity to enterprises, particularly those involved in international trade. the potential but manageable risks involved with chemicals underline the need for our legislation on a globally harmonised approach to packaging and labelling of chemicals, and it is in this respect i am pleased that the council and parliament agreed to a text on 27 june, and i congratulate again our rapporteur on the work done on this complex but very important file.
mr president, i voted against the resolution on banning cloned animals in our food chain, due to the lack of scientific rigour underpinning our approach in parliament. whether it is a legislative vote, a resolution on a parliamentary question, or an own-initiative report, decisions taken by the european parliament and plenary votes are seriously devalued if they do not stand up to peer-reviewed scientific scrutiny. the credibility and integrity of our work, therefore, is legitimately opened to question.
in writing. − this report allows for the bridging of the internal market gap for hydrogen vehicles, having in mind the imperatives of consumer protection. it is urgent to include hydrogen vehicles in the eu type approval framework, thus fostering the research and development of this environmentally friendly technology throughout the whole of the internal market. moreover, technical specifications have been established to ensure the reliability and safety of hydrogen components and systems, as well as the clear identification of hydrogen powered vehicles through labelling, which would be important should an emergency arise.
in writing. − despite the complex title this report concerns a complaint in 2001 of maladministration by the commission in relation to the german government’s failure to properly implement the working time directive. the case was referred to the european parliament by way of a special report from the european ombudsman. referring a special report to the european parliament is the last substantive step the ombudsman may take in seeking a satisfactory response on behalf of a citizen. my report, on behalf of the committee on petitions, endorses the ombudsman’s conclusion that the failure of the commission to deal with the petitioner’s complaint for almost eight years constitutes an instance of maladministration. the report does not address the content of the working time directive itself and therefore an amendment which sought to raise the content of the directive was opposed as irrelevant to this report.
in writing. − in general, i am very supportive of most of what is in this report. however, i have a problem with paragraph 9. i believe that the text of paragraph 9 should be qualified by stating the need to respect national legislative processes when considering the issue of abortion. ireland has a protocol to the treaty of maastricht on this issue and furthermore the area of abortion is not an eu competence. it is up to each member state to make its own legislation in this area and parliament must therefore respect the principle of subsidiarity. unfortunately, the text is not clear on this matter.
in writing. − i welcome the report on equality between women and men – 2008, and support much of its contents. however, i abstained in the final vote because amendment 2 was rejected. in my view, the wording of that amendment was better than the original paragraph.
in writing. − i welcome the debate on animal cloning. i abstained in the final vote on the resolution on cloning of animals for food supply because i have some concerns about an outright ban as proposed in this resolution. to date concerns have been raised about the animal welfare implications of cloning and they need to be addressed. food safety issues do not appear to arise. however, what we need is more accurate and scientific information and advice before taking a decision to ban. that is why i await with interest the commission's proposals in this area, taking into account the recommendations of efsa (european food safety authority) and ege (european group on ethics in science and new technology).
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and assure her that we will be supporting her report. the european union is right to have at its disposal a tough set of political and economic instruments which can be used against regimes around the world which violate the human rights of their people. but the european union must be very careful when it comes to imposing political and economic sanctions. the eu is the largest contributor to overseas development aid, but it must act with wisdom and prudence when it comes to sanctions. the effect of sanctions in zimbabwe, sudan and burma, to name but three countries, has been very detrimental to ordinary people in those countries. so we must try and make sure that it does not affect the poorest and most oppressed in these countries but attacks and gets after the people who are leading these countries. some people have mentioned cuba. i cannot understand why we have sanctions against cuba. cuba should be returned to normal trading: in 10 years’ time cuba would be a radically different country if we did that instead having of these ridiculous sanctions on the place. we must be careful, as i said, when imposing sanctions, and when imposing economic and political sanctions they must be targeted at those who are in charge. let us target their financial affairs abroad or their travel situation. sanctions can be useful but they are limited, especially if they are only being used by european union countries. un sanctions are far stronger and can be far more effective. i support this report but i do think that sanctions are limited. they can be effective, but we must also use prudence and wisdom when we implement them.
mr president, there has been no advancement on millennium development goal (mdg) 5 on improving maternal health since 2000, particularly in sub-saharan africa and south asia, and before 2000 progress was practically non-existent. in september 2000, world leaders adopted the united nations millennium declaration, committing their countries to reducing extreme poverty by 2015 through the objectives of the mdgs. the figures for maternal health, which is one of the eight mdgs, are the same now as they were 20 years ago. more than half a million women die in pregnancy or childbirth every year, which is one death every minute. of those deaths, 99% are in developing countries. in parts of africa, the maternal mortality rate is as high as one in sixteen. in the least developed countries, only 28 in 100 women giving birth are attended by trained personnel. the objective of mdg 5 is to reduce the ratio of women dying in childbirth by three quarters between 1990 and 2015. i call on the council and commission, ahead of the united nations high-level meeting on the mdgs in new york this september, to prioritise action to meet the mdg targets and to fulfil mdg 5 in particular. i will be travelling to the un in new york at the end of this month as part of the delegation from the european parliament’s committee on foreign affairs, and intend to underline the importance of eu member states renewing their commitments to achieving the mdgs by 2015. now that we are at the half-way mark regarding mdgs, it is critical that eu member states continue to progress to 0.7% gni by 2015. given the fact that there has been a drop in eu aid figures from 0.41% of gni in 2006 to 0.38% in 2007 – a decrease of eur 1.5 million – i urge eu member states to refrain from reneging on funding commitments. those not currently on track must increase their efforts. i call on the presidency of the council to take the lead and set an example by ensuring that adequate predictable funding is available, and also to scale up their efforts, so that lives can be saved.
mr president, our policies on maternal health in the developing world are failing. we know that from today’s debate because no progress has been made in reducing the horror of women who die during and at birth. in ireland, if a woman dies in childbirth there is an outcry and a full medical investigation, because the situation is rare. i am grateful that is the case but it is still shocking. that one in sixteen die in childbirth in the developing world is a frightening statistic and, while we debate here in our comfort zones, there are pregnant women in africa in villages who know that their lives are at risk and that they may not live to see their child born or indeed to nurture their other children. maternal health is part of overall health, and that includes access to food, and the issue of food security is an important one. but can i address another issue which has not been raised here yet? i thank the commissioner for her comments on the need to train health-care workers. a huge number need to be trained but – let us be honest – the developed world is stealing trained workers from africa to look after us here, both in the us and in the eu, and we need to be honest about this. we can afford to pay them and they want to come and work, but we are robbing those countries of their own people who have training. i would like you to perhaps address that in your closing remarks. there is pain, suffering and death involved in this issue we are debating here. i have mentioned the children who are left behind. in india, just before christmas, as part of the india delegation, we witnessed a very useful project being funded by the eu, where women of the villages – because there are no trained doctors and nurses – are given some training to help with infant mortality. there has been great success in that very small-scale programme because it is working from the ground up. perhaps we need to mirror that type of programme to address maternal deaths, while we know that we do need all of these very trained and skilled workers.
mr president, i intervene in this debate first of all to thank the council for its june action plan, but more particularly to welcome the very forthright statement by commissioner ferrero-waldner. it is shocking and scandalous that this millennium development goal is failing and that we have made no progress since 2000 and no progress over the last 20 years. millions of women have died and tens of millions of children have been orphaned needlessly. we know what is causing the deaths and we know how to prevent the deaths. we have the resources, and indeed the knowledge to prevent them, and yet it is not happening. why? why are we failing? it seems to me that we are allowing the conscientious objectors to block progress on these issues. we have to push past the conscientious objectors – those who reduce this issue constantly to the issue of abortion and the provision of condoms. why anyone should see a condom as some kind of evil instrument boggles the mind and boggles reason! i would urge those who are in a position to make decisions, and to pursue decisions, to ignore the conscientious objectors and get on with it.
commissioner, the eu has done a great job in its farm-to-fork system, and consumers should have confidence in it but, as an ancillary point, what about protecting eu producers? i do not believe that we put the same rigour on imported food products as we do internally. for example, we allow substances to be used externally that we ban within the european union, and with the new plant protection products legislation we are going to do that increasingly in cereal production. could i ask you, commissioner, to address that particular concern, because we might be consuming food in europe that you could not actually produce in the european union?
author. − thank you, commissioner, for dealing with this question. i welcome the work that has been done in this area, which relates to the whole issue of the perception of the european union in member states. in ireland we had a particular problem during the debate on the lisbon treaty since, whenever something negative arises, we tend to blame the european union. can i just raise one typical example of an area in which we have no comeback: that of a member state failing to act on a european union directive. in wicklow, in my own area of cromane, there was a case about eight years ago where funding was made available, under a directive, from europe to the irish government, but no action was taken, and as a result 50 families are now not able to carry out their normal work of mussel harvesting. the local papers blamed the european union. we have no redress... (the president cut off the speaker.)
author. − like myself, the commissioner is totally au fait with the irish situation, where 18 000 workers cross the border every day from one jurisdiction to another and where 5 200 students and 1.7 million people either take holidays or go shopping from one side of the border to the other. i know the commissioner has said that it is up to national governments and that the banks are not subject to regulation (ec) no 2560/01, but surely it should be possibly to introduce regulations to ban these surcharges. we had a very good example where your colleague, commissioner vivien reding, commissioner for information and media, took a very tough stand with the mobile phone companies – and we can see the result to the benefit of the consumer. it seems wrong that this should be allowed to continue, particularly when there are sister banks on both sides of the border.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an moladh tosaigh ón gcoimisiún. is cáipéis an-úsáideach é agus tréaslaím leis an rapóirtéir mar gheall ar an méid oibre atá curtha isteach aige ag ullmhú na tuarascála seo. cuireann an tuarascáil béim ar thábhacht na gcalafort mar infrastruchtúr riachtanach. mar is eol dúinn, tá níos mó ná 1,200 calafort marsantach san aontas eorpach a thugann fostaíocht dhíreach nó indíreach go leathmhilliún duine. fáiltím, go mór mór, roimh an rannán sa tuarascáil a chuireann béim ar thábhacht cónasc maith leis na calafoirt a bheith sa tír. i mo thír féin, mar shampla, is ar éigean má tá aon chónasc iarnóid leis na calafoirt agus níl aon chónasc leis na haerfoirt náisiúnta ná leis an haerfoirt idirnáisiúnta. d'admhaigh aire iompair na héireann, atá ina bhall de pháirtí an chomhaontais ghlais, go bhfuil an scéal an-dona ar fad ó thaobh astuithe carbóin in éirinn atá i gcónaí go dona agus atá ag éirí níos measa agus gan dabht ar bith beidh siad i bhfad níos measa mar gheall ar an méid atá ag tarlú. gan amhras ar bith, is é an easpa nasc iarnróid leis na calafoirt agus leis na haerfoirt is cúis leis sin. níl aon rogha ag easportálaithe ná importálaithe in éirinn ach mótarfheithiclí a úsáid agus is scannal é sin. bíonn áthas orm nuair a fhoilsíonn an coiste iompair tuarascáil mar seo a thugann aitheantas do reachtaíocht comhshaoil an aontais eorpaigh i gcónaí .
madam president, i warmly welcome this report. an integrated ports policy is necessary to boost trade and investment, while taking advantage of the environmental benefits of maritime transport. there are also massive gains to be made by greater cooperation between ports and different member states. in my own city of cork and ports there, there is a proposal for a new service between that port and a port in spain. currently there is no roll-on roll-off link between these member states. the benefits will accrue not only to ireland and spain, but also to the uk and france. road freight between ireland and spain must now pass through the uk and france, adding to the congestion on their roads. road freight will be taken off already congested motorways and transported over a shorter route by sea, saving time, money and carbon emissions. however, a word of warning must be added. the port i referred to has recently attempted to relocate to a location outside the city, to deeper water. unfortunately, planning was refused by the planning board, who are not accountable to the government. they refused on the grounds that there was no rail link to the new proposed facility. the government does not have any policy on freight transport by rail. this displays a lack of integrated thinking, where policymaking is uncoordinated across government agencies. therefore i welcome this report.
madam president, while this review is very welcome, i think we also need more frankness in the debate, and we must accept that we cannot protect people – our citizens – from themselves, nor should we try to legislate for all life’s risks. popular support for the eu project is actually at risk if we give the impression that we are on a mission to regulate every aspect of our lives – and that is the interpretation on the ground at the moment. we must be very careful to communicate exactly what the eu project is all about. i would also like reassurance that the majority of this plan is not just repackaging and rebranding of projects already planned. we need better implementation of existing eu legislation at member state level, and better monitoring and enforcement by the commission. greater assessment and, indeed, debate on the roll-out and effectiveness of the existing legislation is a priority as far as i am concerned. the priority concern in terms of new legislation in this house has to be the climate and energy package. climate change will impact on health in many ways, including malnutrition resulting from food scarcity in parts of the world; deaths and injuries as a result of extreme weather events such as heat waves, floods, storms, and fires and the consequent social problems therefrom; the increased burden of a range of diarrhoeal diseases; increased frequency of cardio-respiratory diseases; serious problems with water scarcity – over 40% of the world will, in part, actually have water scarcity problems within 10 years – and drinking water. it is very welcome that this resolution on the mid-term review recognises the health impacts of climate change, and i applaud it for that. on another point, a very serious issue – which really is still a cinderella issue in terms of how we treat it at european and member state level – is the whole area around european mental health. one in four europeans suffers from mental health problems at least once during their life. in ireland alone, the cost of mental ill health is estimated at up to 4% of our gdp and, tragically, there were over 460 suicides last year alone – recorded suicides. that was an increase of 12% on the previous year, in 2006 – in ireland, a country which, on the best-place-to-live barometers, comes way up there, i think after luxembourg. (i do not know who draws up the criteria for these barometers.) but we have to question this. this problem with mental health in europe, and the projected problems, deserves attention and adequate prevention strategies in this most important area. the rapporteur’s prognosis that the action plan is bound to fail, in all or part, is worrying, and i would like to hear reassurances from the commission – but also from the presidency – that this will not be the case.
mr president, i spoke to a farmer this morning, unfortunately a farmer who is sitting looking at sodden fields because certainly in ireland and in other parts of northern europe we are having a really bad harvest. i think we should bear them in mind this morning. this young farmer – and she is trained – has read the soils directive and has a real concern that for someone like her who is using minimum cultivation, doing the right think for the soil, this directive will penalise her, particularly in unseasonable weather conditions. she knows what she is talking about. i believe we do not need a directive to have good soils: we need member states to take responsibility and most of all we need good farm advice backed up with good national research on what is best for soils. i think one of the big problems we face, and we face it certainly in ireland, is very bad planning, which has created huge problems of flooding and the ancillary difficulties that leads to. let us leave this to the member states. let us give them direction, but not another directive to add to the 18 that farmers already have to comply with.
in writing. − my colleagues and i welcome the renewed interest in research on the potential health risks posed by prolonged exposure to electromagnetic fields. prudence as regards those effects on health is essential. this is an issue i personally have been concerned with and which i sought to address in january this year. in my letter to former commissioner kyprianou, i brought to his attention the fact that no review has been done on this issue since july 12th 1999, despite an expected review 5 years from that date. i voted in favour of the ries report which acknowledges that owing to the influx of new technology since the 1999 report, it is out of date. however, i voted against the amendment calling for the imposition of harmonized stricter limits on the emission of specific electromagnetic waves. this is a health issue and consequently an irish one. the irish government has published a recent report concluding that, so far, no adverse short- or long-term health effects have been found. it has already adopted icnirp guidelines limiting public and occupational exposure to electromagnetic fields, endorsed by the world health organization. ireland needs to govern for ireland, and is guided by the who.
author. − i intend to propose an oral amendment before the vote. the recent coup in mauritania is disappointing. for a country which has made much progress towards democracy in recent years, this coup is a setback to such advancements. the importance of a democratic mauritania cannot be underestimated in this fragile subregion of africa, so a return to democracy and civil rule is paramount. to overthrow a democratically elected government is simple unacceptable, as is the continued house arrest of the president and the prime minister of this country. however, it must also be noted that two thirds of the members of mauritania’s parliament signed a declaration of support for the coup leader and his fellow generals. last sunday, the generals constituted their own government which, in my view, must be regarded as illegitimate. while not recognising this self-appointed interim administration, i would nevertheless encourage the military junta to set a timetable for dates for new presidential elections as soon as possible so that civilian ministers can once again be appointed instead of military personalities. the junta must commit to electoral neutrality as they did after the last coup in 2005. if such moves cannot be achieved in the very near future, the european union must consider harsher measures, such as the suspension of aid of a non-humanitarian nature. the commission must give serious consideration to the reactivation of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which could lead to the freezing of assets of members of the junta as well as the suspension of aid. finally, i urge the european union to collaborate closely with the african union on a resolution of this political crisis.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it seems to me that, whenever a religion of any kind gains absolute power anywhere in the world, it is just as brutal and intolerant as any secular dictatorship. in iran, homosexuality is a capital offence, adultery is a capital offence, espionage, armed robbery, drug trafficking and, of course, apostasy are all capital offences: you will be hung if you do not toe the line. according to opposition sources, political activists have been charged with criminal offences and executed. an iranian man has been hanged for rape, despite his alleged victim withdrawing her accusations and a judicial review being ordered into the sentence. mobile cranes and truck jibs are used for public hangings and, as there is no drop, this subjects the person being executed to a slow, painful death by asphyxiation. it is essential that we press the iranian authorities to systematically commute all death penalties for juvenile offenders at the very least, and to halt the execution of the four young boys who are awaiting execution at this moment. i would welcome the ending of the stoning of women – hopefully it will be followed through. however, as the resolution points out, it is worrying that there is new legislation seeking to retain it for adultery.
mr president, i would just like to add my voice of support to that of colleagues on all sides of this house about the appalling story of the treatment of albinos in tanzania. i know it happens in other parts of africa but there is a concentration in tanzania – we have heard the number of 270 000 albinos – who are discriminated against, who are marginalised, brutalised and murdered for their body parts due to superstition, witchcraft and various occult practices. by raising this issue here (and i commend all my colleagues who have raised it and those who put this item on the agenda), we add our voice in the european parliament to the international voice of protest, and hopefully the tanzanian government – and indeed others – will listen. it is a question mainly of education but, above all, we need protection for albinos within their own communities; we need full investigation. the fact that some of the police force are part of the problem and cannot be trusted to be part of the solution is extremely worrying.
mr president, my apologies for being late for the debate earlier on. this was due to the fact that we were trying to agree the terms of an oral amendment relating to paragraph 8. this is the oral amendment as agreed: ‘notes the announcement of new presidential elections by the junta, but deplores the failure – contrary to the position of the 2005-2007 junta – of a commitment to neutrality; calls on the military in power to commit themselves forthwith to a timetable for the restoration of the democratic institutions, in cooperation with the political forces’. in relation to paragraph 10, there is a typographical correction to be made which was agreed in the discussions. the last line of paragraph 10 should read ‘which could lead to the freezing of aid, excluding food and humanitarian assistance’.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the 4.6 million people in ethiopia who are facing starvation because of acute food shortages. this has come about because of drought. the ethiopian government is saying that it is not a famine, but unicef is saying that there is famine in certain parts of the country and people are at acute risk of famine. it is only happening in certain areas, and i believe that the international community and the eu must act quickly and try to supply about half a million tonnes of food if we are to avoid a complete famine. i think this is a priority and, as the european union is one of the biggest contributors to overseas development aid, i think it is absolutely essential that we do this immediately. mr president, let me just say that, as an irish member, i agree with the comments you have made about libertas and the irish referendum. we fought for a ‘yes’ campaign; we were open and transparent about our funding. libertas told us one thing, and now we have discovered it is very different. i want to encourage you and everybody to ensure that libertas is far more open and transparent in terms of where exactly the money came from, because people want to know.
mr president, while european central bank president, jean claude trichet, has repeatedly expressed concern about inflation indexation of wages, he has failed to take into account the plight of workers, particularly the low-paid, struggling as the cost of living escalates. and, while ensuring that interventions have a minimal inflationary impact, wage increases are needed for low-paid workers, who are now under severe pressure. curbing inflation across europe cannot be boiled down to curbing legitimate wage demands. while, of course, those on higher wages can afford to exercise wage moderation, the lower-paid are a different matter. domestic government and national central banks are best placed to respond to changing economic circumstances, and that is why i have always opposed measures that have undermined economic sovereignty. indeed, as a small state, ireland is well aware that our economic situation is peripheral to the policy-making concerns of the ecb and that, therefore, the positions often adopted by the bank are not always in the bests needs or interests of the irish economy. i too favour transparency in funding. i also favour respect for democratic outcomes, and this body should note that all of the campaigns that fought and won the argument for a ‘no’ vote, with the exception of one, have published full and frank accounts, and there is no question as regards the mechanisms of spending or the funds that those groups, including my own party, received.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of the travel ban imposed by belarus, which prevents children affected by the chernobyl nuclear disaster from travelling abroad. over 1 000 irish families host these belarusian children in their homes every summer and christmas for rest and recuperation, which often includes medical assessment and, in some cases, treatment. there is a bilateral agreement between italy and belarus, which means that italy is not affected by the ban. i know that the irish minister for foreign affairs is seeking an agreement with belarus and i welcome the discussions that are taking place. i would also underline the need for an eu-belarus agreement. under the european neighbourhood policy, the eu will provide belarus with financial aid to the tune of eur 20 million for the period 2007-2010. the eu should make a reversal of the travel ban a condition for receipt of that funding. an eu-belarus agreement should also be created to allow belarusian children to continue to travel to eu countries for rest and recuperation. this would secure the rights of children to travel in the long term.
mr president, despite our wet irish climate, major flooding was a relatively uncommon occurrence in the past. recently, destructive flooding has become a yearly, seasonal phenomenon. a number of factors are implicated: building on flood plains, poor maintenance of drains etc. but one important contributing factor – inappropriate plantation forestry – was encouraged by eu funding over the last couple of decades and for this reason deserves your close scrutiny. these spruce tree plantations, especially when planted on upland areas, have significantly changed the drainage pattern of irish river systems. at the same time, the planting of native irish trees and forests was largely neglected, because of the way the funds were organised in the past. it is unfortunate that in the new rural development programme, ireland has chosen to exclude forestry from the scheme. to starve native irish forestry of funds at this critical time, when it needs to make a comeback, is a recipe for disaster, with increased flooding, water contamination, co2 build-up and a continued loss of soil fertility. there are token projects in the programme involving native species. however, it cannot be denied that an opportunity to use the funds for native trees to mitigate against future flooding has been lost.
mr president, less than two weeks ago the european court of justice found that ireland was in contravention of the water framework directive in regard to some of its waste water treatment systems. i must say that, personally, i am very pleased that the commission is actively involved in trying to ensure clean drinking water in ireland. however, the eu commission now has an opportunity to build on that good work. it can do this by granting an extension to the farm waste management scheme. the deadline for completion of works is december 2008, but, because of exceptional circumstances, work will not be completed. if the deadline is not extended, as i said, work will be incomplete and nobody will benefit. extending the scheme would be a win-win situation for water quality in ireland, for the environment, for farmers and for commission policy. it would be a reasonable and sensible move by the commission to extend the deadline in order to ensure compliance with the nitrates directive, and it would show joined-up thinking with regard to the implementation of eu policy.
mr president, there is widespread anger and fear amongst our citizens concerning the collapsing financial institutions globally and their potential impact on pensions, savings and jobs. i am pleased that commissioner mccreevy is here for the debate that is about to take place. however, i believe that he must act swiftly with regard to what this parliament is proposing – to rein in ‘casino capitalism’, which has driven us to the edge of the economic abyss. commissioner, if your commitment to neo-liberal ideology will not allow you to do so, then you should resign and allow someone else to be appointed who is prepared to face down the market buccaneers. strict, new regulation of the financial and banking sector is urgently needed and your championing so far of so-called ‘light regulation’, which is some cases has meant zero regulation, must be brought rapidly to an end. before i sit down, i would like to refer to the comments made by miss mcdonald of sinn féin, where she sought to justify their campaign against lisbon and is now proclaiming that she wants economic sovereignty for ireland in the midst of a global financial crisis. i think it demonstrates the light-headed attitude of the ‘no’ campaigners.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, certainly this report has come at a very interesting time, as we are experiencing a time of unprecedented economic upheavals, and recent events have made us sadly aware of some of the shortcomings, weaknesses and abuses in many sectors of the financial market. there is no sector or grouping that has emerged unscathed or unblemished. there can be no case of ‘let’s go back to the same old rules’. indeed, in the united states we are witnessing radical alterations in the landscape of high finance. changes must also be made here in europe, but also globally. in such a tense financial climate, it can be tempting to make scapegoats of certain financial actors or bodies. the lack of understanding that can surround hedge funds and their operation often makes them good targets for this kind of scapegoating. however, we must remember that neither hedge funds nor private equity led to the current financial crisis and, instead, at times provided much needed injections of liquidity into the market. we should also remember that the crisis which started in america resulted from bad banking practices, and the european banking sector, while badly affected, seems to be in a better position to deal with this problem than those banks in the united states. nonetheless, we must not deny that there are problems and faults in the structure and operation of many investment vehicles, alternative investments included. it is not good enough to tinker with a small rule here or there. real reform is needed, and it is needed on a global level. i believe that the report that has emerged from the committee on economic and monetary affairs, under the stewardship of mr rasmussen, reflects these concerns. for longer-term financial health and competitiveness, we must not and cannot regulate away constructive risk. despite its name, this text does not seek to vilify hedge funds and private equity but instead notes the need for general market reform, greater transparency and calls for principle-based regulation. i welcome the comments made by the commissioner here this evening, and i have absolutely no doubt that he will respond to the situation that we now find ourselves in. the financial system is international by nature, and we need international supervision of these markets in a global context. to secure global economic stability we must work together to find the best way forward, to put credibility and confidence back into the financial institutions and market for citizens globally, but also for the citizens of europe, for their pension funds and also for their savings.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to say well done to the rapporteur, mr hammerstein, on his very comprehensive and wide-ranging report. i was very interested to read in the report that, while other committees have a heavy responsibility of legislative activity, the committee on petitions has shown that its role and function are also essential. indeed, i fully agree with that sentiment and i become more convinced of it with every committee meeting i attend. our primary role in this parliament is that of legislators, but, in order to be good legislators, we need to be aware of the impact of our legislation so that we can improve our efforts in parliament. in my opinion, any legislation emanating from this house should improve the quality of life of citizens in some way, and in the committee on petitions we see that this is not always the case. this often happens because of the non-implementation of legislation, or inadequate implementation, or because of specific circumstances or situations that the legislation does not address. i think that is a salutary lesson to all of us and we need to hear and respond. for me, however, the core of this report is about how the committee responds to citizens, and i have said before that in order to respond effectively, we need to put ourselves in the shoes of the petitioners. they are approaching a large institution; they often have no legal or political background; they are put off by bureaucracy and are probably very frustrated at the situation in which they find themselves. for many petitioners, we are the last port of call and it is crucial that we respond effectively and efficiently. this in my opinion starts with clear, understandable information for citizens. and we as meps are not always the best people to judge. panels of citizens, i believe, should road-test any information we supply, any websites we design, any booklets we print. we need to be very careful that we do not promise more than we can deliver, otherwise citizens will be totally frustrated and end up blaming brussels bureaucracy. when i use the word ‘promise’, what i mean is this: we must understand that citizens do not know about national authorities stonewalling, they do not know how the system works and we have a duty to them to tell them how it is. certainly, we can and should try to influence change and this report is certainly doing that, but we cannot allow citizens to get caught as the meat in the sandwich. once citizens have good, accurate information and once they are aware of the possibilities for action, then we can provide the service they need. this report outlines in detail what is needed: sufficient resources so that the secretariat can respond in a timely way; greater involvement by the council and member states and maximum coordination with the ombudsman and solvit. but, above and beyond that, this report also clearly indicates that systemic weaknesses need to be further investigated. this happens where petitioners cannot obtain rightful compensation and where member states delay to avoid compliance until fines are imminent and still avoid responsibility for past intentional violations. we as legislators, in conjunction with the commission, surely have a responsibility to act in those situations.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i consider the committee on petitions the most important in this house. it is a forum in which the citizens tell us how the many laws that we deal with in other committees affect them or do not affect them. without this feedback we are doomed to work in a vacuum. but, in terms of its work of standing up for europe’s citizens, there is something missing in the procedure, and that is the presence of the council and the permanent representatives of the member states. how can we mediate for citizens in a dispute with their country without the country attending the committee on petitions? the people of ireland came to the committee on petitions with three petitions in connection with our most valued and sensitive archaeological site: tara, the home of the high kings and of st patrick. the committee on petitions responded enthusiastically and called for the destruction of this site to stop, and urged the commission to pursue its case against the irish authorities, and yet nothing has changed. the destruction is nearly complete. there will soon be a toll gate where the home of the high kings once stood. the irish people will, understandably, not get over their disillusionment.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office and the vice-president of the commission, as well as the rapporteurs for what i consider to be very important reports. when we discuss issues with regard to terrorism and data protection – sometimes when you look at the substance of the debate within parliament – there appears to be a conflict taking place between those who want to give more protection to individual rights and freedoms and more protection to the general populace from the risk and threat of violence or even incitement to violence, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned. to that extent, when we move forward with regard to these proposals, we should be certain that the legislation which we are proposing, which we are amending within this parliament, has a definitive legal basis, so that when it comes into operation it is above challenge and above rebuke. one of the difficulties we face is that, because of the framework decision, because of the legal basis – or the lack of a legal basis – with regard to certain aspects of that framework decision, we could be leaving ourselves open to being accused of being hypocritical, merely appearing to act without actually taking any decisive action. if you look back over the history of the cooperation in judicial matters and police matters that we have instigated here within this parliament, 90% of it has been predicated on the basis of mutual trust between the different authorities at member state level. that has been the only effective way of finding a mechanism to move forward, because, even though you may put in agreements or decisions, unless the authorities in each member state are willing to work with each other and exchange that information, then there can be no real meaningful cooperation or movement forward. we have to be very careful with regard to the issue of data protection and the personal data which is collected, because many of us know that, in our own member states, there are countless agencies, both of a national and a local level, that retain data on every single person. the biggest scare there is at the moment in the united kingdom has been this issue of identity theft, and big concerns because computers are lost that contain information from state agencies – whether it is social welfare, defence or police agencies – personal data, information that you would never individually give out to anybody. yet there appears to be no protection for that data. that is why we have to be careful at this level – at european level – that we are creating a european framework decision that will allow cooperation between member states, but which does not impose these controls on national member states. the reason i say that is because there are greater protections available to individuals to challenge national authorities when they misuse, abuse or lose their data than would be available in this framework decision, and in many ways, if we force this framework decision on protection of data to apply to national data as well, we will undermine the rights that already exist. because we are moving forward with a new plan at a european level, there is some leeway for a slightly more fluid response to the difficulties we are facing with regard to the protection of the data. however, to be certain for this legislation to be effective, not only must it be clear and definitive with regard to the role that it wants to carry out, but it must also have the trust of the people that it will protect them and not abuse them.
mr president, information exchange between our member state police forces is essential to combat terrorist threats and indeed prevents atrocities. many atrocities have been prevented by such exchanges on my own island of ireland. for a long time ireland and the uk were reluctant to do so due to deep-seated distrust. the consequences were horrific. it would be no surprise, therefore, that i broadly support information exchange. however, i am concerned, as are my colleagues, that the council’s revised proposals bear insufficient protection for personal data as outlined in martine roure’s report. we will not defeat the likes of eta and the ira and others who despise democracy and human rights by undermining our democratic norms ourselves. i appeal, therefore, to the commission and council to take seriously our concerns as directly-elected politicians. it is essential that the progress of the european union is not blocked and that we avoid giving the impression that the eu can act beyond the law of member states. i had hoped we could have dealt with these matters under lisbon’s new codecision procedures. unfortunately that is not possible right now, but we must continue to work to enhance the legitimacy of this parliament and the european union. we will not do so if we undermine personal rights.
mr president, i welcome this report. i want to say at the outset that i strongly support the fight against terrorism, and i have spent all my political life opposing ira and loyalist terrorism in ireland, so please take that as stated. but we must ensure that we have sufficient checks and balances to protect citizens from state terrorism or abuse of data by the state, the union, or by journalists, organisations, individuals, or agencies for that matter, those who steal or otherwise come into possession of information which is private and confidential. the cure must not become worse than the disease. the storage and disposal of such data is a crucial part of this safeguard. any attempt at embarrassing individuals or any form of attempted blackmail – be it political, financial or otherwise – should be a particular offence and should be strongly condemned by all right-thinking people. the disposal of this data is often left to the private sector to destroy after a certain period of time has passed by. i, for one, am not satisfied that the private sector, in particular – or, for that matter, the public sector – have in place sufficient safeguards for the destruction of data which is no longer needed in the fight against terrorism. i believe there should be the severest penalties for those who do not protect private information and leave this open to abuse and misinterpretation, whether those persons are in the public or private sector, and i urge the commission to take this into account. our job as parliamentarians is to ensure that democracy can survive. we must, therefore, ensure that we have all the tools we need to fight terrorism tooth and nail, but that does not mean we can be careless with the reputations, the confidentiality or the privacy of our citizens, and i urge the commission to take that into account.
madam president, i fully support the purpose of the lefrançois report, but in this context i would just like to use my explanation – having supported it and not being in a position to be able to speak on it – to urge commissioner tajani to speed up the ongoing bilateral agreements with other third-country airports’ authorities in relation to airport security – which was clamped down on because of the terrorism incidents – particularly bilateral agreements around the whole area of the purchase of duty-free liquids. it may be a very small issue in the context of the major challenges facing us globally today, but we in the eu have to win the hearts as well as the minds of our citizens in terms of what we do. again this summer, when people visited relations abroad or when relations in australia and the us and other places came to visit ireland, the uk, germany and france, they had all their – what they thought were legitimately purchased – duty-free liquids taken from them as they transited in the main hub airports in europe to their final destination. this is a small issue – those of us who travel every week will put up with the nonsense of having our lipsticks taken from us, and i am sure it makes a huge contribution to combating terrorism. i do not want to make light of a very serious problem, but i just want a little sense, rationale and bilateral cooperation brought into this, so that our citizens – our electors – can understand what we do and why we do it.
madam president, as regards the hammerstein report i followed the ppe-de line and voted against the green amendment about the two seats of parliament. i want to explain why i did so. it is not because i agree with this monthly and sometimes bimonthly trail to strasbourg. i understand historically why we have got in the position we are in. i understand that 12 visits to strasbourg per annum are part of the treaty and we are signed in, but in a rational and calm way. those of us who have serious concerns about the lack of access, the difficulty of doing work, the need to transport all our files, our staff, the committee staff, parliament staff, the group staff, to strasbourg for four days 12 times a year believe it can no longer be justified given the enormous expense. it is a beautiful building and once they have sorted out the difficulties i feel that we could find another very serious use for that building. strasbourg and france deserve no less, but a major institution must be housed in that building. but to expect us to work efficiently in terms of human resources and costs and to continue this pilgrimage to strasbourg can no longer be justified, so having voted one way i support those who say one seat for plenary sessions, but please, a rational debate, not a polarised political debate, on the issue.
in writing. − the report from ms badia i cutchet on improving the quality of teacher education today touches on some important issues. the report is right to point out the need for adequate remuneration for teachers along with adequate training and teaching equipment. ultimately, however, it is up to the national governments who fund our education systems to manage the education of our children. in ireland, children today are still being taught in prefabs instead of proper, safe buildings. the pupil-teacher ratio remains too high to allow for the best possible education of our children. these problems need to be tackled first and foremost in ireland by means of adequate investment in the short- and long-term.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the report by rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in the parliament. it is also regrettable that the amendments tabled by the greens and the gue/ngl group, which were directly taken from the rasmussen draft report, were not adopted during the plenary vote. in spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote. this is due to the urgent need and necessity to counteract harmful financial speculation and instability on the markets. in this respect, the report could be seen as a step in the right direction. however, a stronger hand is required in applying these ideas. the secretive nature of many hedge funds is unacceptable as the system as it currently stands does not allow for transparency for the public. it is therefore difficult to assess the nature of hedge funds, and their capacity to contribute to sustainable social cohesion and economic stability cannot be ascertained by citizens.
in writing. − while the measures put forward by the commission in this framework decision fall short of what i would have liked to see, i supported the general principle of setting a minimum level for personal data protection. the civil liberties committee of parliament did some good work in improving the proposal, which i hope will be taken on board. sinn féin supports the highest possible level of data protection for citizens and will continue to support any measures which improve the privacy and rights of citizens in this field.
in writing. − the petitions committee of the european parliament performs an invaluable service to the european union citizens, channelling their concerns to the commission, questioning national, regional and local authorities on irregularities in the application of eu law, and taking on instances of violations of citizens' rights. the sharp increase in the number of petitions received by the european parliament last year illustrates both the citizens' growing awareness of how parliament can serve them and the need for the committee to be adequately funded and staffed. no less than 65 petitions concerned ireland in the year 2007, and the country has been visited by a committee fact-finding mission due to the breach of eu directives concerning water and the environment. i am convinced of the crucial role of the petitions committee as a resort for citizens faced with breaches of rules, as well as a bridge between them and all levels of administration and government within the eu via their elected meps.
in writing. − i welcome the hammerstein report on the petitions committee today. in particular, i welcome the report's taking to task of the irish government on many issues. the irish government's decision to push ahead with the m3 motorway through the heart of one of our most historic national sites is unjustifiable. the project should be abandoned or re-worked to protect our national monuments. the campaign must continue in ireland and europe to make sure that this happens before it is too late as the government is trying to ensure.
mr president, by sheer coincidence, transparency international, the anti-corruption watchdog, released its annual corruption perception index today. it estimates that levels of corruption are adding about usd 50 billion to the cost of achieving the millennium development goals, which is an absolutely staggering amount of money. it is approximately half of the annual global aid outlay. even if that figure is exaggerated – even if it is half what they say – it is still a staggering amount of money. president-in-office of the council, do you not think that more needs to be done to try to tackle this? whatever we need, one thing we do not need is for the general public in europe to feel that the money they give to aid programmes is in some way being mislaid or abused. i think it is very important that a figure as staggering as this needs to be addressed in a more coherent way.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil leat as an bhfreagra sin. ba mhaith liom a fhiafrú freisin, nach gceapann an tuachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle go bhfuil sé níos tábhachtaí ná riamh a chinntiú go leanfaidh beartas talmhaíochta na heorpa, polasaí soláthair bia na heorpa, ar aghaidh tar éis 2013 mar gheall ar an ngéarchéim anois atá sa bpolasaí soláthair bia go domhanda; agus go mbeadh cinnteacht ag soláthróirí bia na heorpa go bhfuil an leanacht ar aghaidh sin i gceist?
president-in-office, i welcome the fact that you referred to the different dimensions of sport. nowadays, we hear about professional sport all the time but i am particularly concerned about volunteerism in sport and the ‘sport for all’ concept. i would like an assurance from you that the eu will support voluntary groups and volunteerism, and in particular the ‘sport for all’ concept. it is vitally important at a time when all the emphasis in the media and elsewhere is on professional sport.
let me compliment the french presidency on holding this conference ‘europe against alzheimer’s’ and the proactive role that it has adopted. i notice, however, that you have not mentioned the issue of dementia specifically and, as you know, alzheimer’s associations are clamouring for increased awareness and education on the condition. can you tell me, minister, if the conference will address the issue promoting awareness of the condition in order to decrease the stigma associated with it?
a uachtaráin, nuair a labhraímid faoi thalmhaíocht bímid ag caint faoi bhia. agus tuigim gur mhol an coimisiún go mbeadh polasaí lipéadaithe bia ag an aontas eorpach ag taispeáint go soiléir gur de bhunadh eorpach an bia ar an tseilf san ollmhargadh – go mórmór tá mé ag caint faoi fheoil. ach, deirtear ar aon chuma, nach bhfuil an chomhairle sásta glacadh leis an bpolasaí seo. ba mhaith liom a fháil amach ón uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle, cén fáth?
minister, is it not clear that, by 31 december, all 26 member states except ireland will have adopted the lisbon treaty, and that there is no question of renegotiation? you cannot go back to the text. but, apart from ireland and lisbon, you take france and the netherlands in relation to the constitution: we have a major problem in that there is a huge disconnect between the ordinary citizen and the european project. would the minister consider that an idea would be for us to have a europe day – not just a schuman day, where we just have brussels and belgium closed – a europe day, a public holiday, where all the citizens of europe, in all the 27 member states, would collectively celebrate our common european citizenship and identity?
i understand that the council has been supplied with the results of a survey carried out by the irish government. can i just say that i think that this sort of window dressing is what got us where we are. they did not survey the 47% who voted ‘yes’. the reason that the referendum was not carried in ireland was a failure of leadership, and secondly because – leaving aside the original vote on the treaty of rome – we went to the people six times in referendum: in the single european act, amsterdam, maastricht, twice on the nice treaty, and then on lisbon. and then we hand the people an entire treaty and say: what do you think of that? was it not a recipe for disaster, when there was no leadership? the question is: will there be leadership now? i would like to ask the president-in-office if he would indicate what the implications will be if ireland does not ratify either now, or if it continues to vote ‘no’ in the future. give us an indication of where europe is going.
i thank the minister for his reply. i would like to ask the minister – since this is clearly of grave concern to the international community and to the european union – the following question. sanctions, to date, have not worked. we do not want to get to the stage where military intervention is necessary, so can the minister tell this house what other sanctions or what other plans the council has to be proactive to try to bring the iranian administration to its senses? are there alternative sanctions? do you have a list of alternative sanctions, and what are the future steps to be taken? at times it is very hard to see in this game of cat and mouse just who is the cat and who is the mouse.
a uachtaráin, is í an chloch is mó ar phaidrín an choimisiúin agus na comhairle, agus ar ndóigh, na parlaiminte seo ná go dtiocfadh feabhas ar gheilleagar na heorpa gan mhoill. fágfar an eoraip gan ciste airgead sóisialta a chur i bhfeidhm dóibh siúd atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste mura dtagann feabhas ar an ngeilleagar. caithfear díriú ar an dúshlán seo láithreach. creidimse nach féidir linn leanúint ar aghaidh mar a rinne muid le bliain anuas i bhfianaise an méid atá tite amach ar mhargaí airgeadais na cruinne. caithfear éirí as an tincéireacht atá ar bun le rialacha na margaí airgeadais. tá an pobal thar a bheith buartha faoi seo agus caithfear iad a chur ar a suaimhneas. ní mór gníomhú air sin go han-luath. ní mór dúinne san aontas eorpach breis infheistíochta a dhéanamh i dtaighde agus forbairt, agus tá mé thar a bheith ríméadach go bhfuil eur 55 billiún le caitheamh sna réimsí seo idir 2007 agus 2013. ach caithfear coimeád suas leis an saol, agus caithfear – sna réimsí seo – iomaíocht a chinntiú chun go mbeidh fostaíocht ann; chun go mbeidh bunús láidir geilleagair faoin saol atá againn i láthair na huaire.
in writing. − in relation to rcvs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 on the sterckx report, i and my irish epp-ed colleagues voted against or abstained on these amendments, so as to demonstrate our concerns over issues relating to the power of the independent authority and the scope of the directive which would undermine member state competence in a number of areas. we fully support the general thrust of the directive and wish to see a successful agreement reached between parliament and council.
in writing. − i and my irish epp-ed colleagues abstained on the report on the amendments to the kohlicek report. we did so due to concerns relating to the impact of the division of investigations into technical and criminal and the problems that this would create under irish law. we support the general thrust of this and all the maritime reports adopted today in plenary.
in writing. − i and my irish epp-ed colleagues abstained on the vote on the report on port state control due to concerns that the amendments as put forward would undermine and complicate the paris mou, and we feel that the issue of flag states would be better dealt with in a separate directive and that inclusion of such amendments would unnecessarily complicate this directive.
i scríbhinn. − tamall gairid ó shin bhí tionóisc ag bád seoltóireachta éireannach, a chuaigh go tonn na farraige thart ar 30 ciliméadar amach ó chósta na fraince. bhí an t-ádh ar an gcriú agus ar na daoine faoi oiliúint a bhí ar bord, agus a tháinig as gan gortú. ní raibh orthu brath ar an ádh amháin, áfach. is le cabhair foirne tarrthála na fraince a tháinig siad uilig slán, agus is as lámha a chéile atá aonaid imscrúdú mara na héireann agus na fraince ag déanamh scrúduithe ar chúis na tubaiste. léiríonn cás erika cad a fhéadfaidh tarlú nuair atá leisce ar fhoirne bád cabhair a lorg. mar atá luaite ag údair na dtuarascálacha, níor cheart go dtarlódh sé riamh go gcuirfeadh criú báid, ar chúis ar bith, saol mhuintir an bháid nó folláine na timpeallachta i mbaol trí gan dul i dteagmháil leis an gcaladh nó leis an bhfoireann tarrthála is gaire dóibh ag am na timpiste. ar son sábháilteachta muirí tá géarghá le comhoibriú ar bhonn idirnáisiúnta. mar sin, táim ag súil go mór gur féidir teacht ar réiteach ar dhara léamh an phacáiste muirí agus chuige sin bhíos sásta mo chuid tacaíochta a thabhairt do na tuarascálacha seo.
in writing. − as a member of the eu-india delegation, i support the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the eu-india summit 2008. the motion addresses the issue of the failure to reach agreement at the wto and expresses a desire for renewed efforts to reach agreement. however, the motion does not reflect the key stumbling block to such an agreement, namely the failure of the us and india to reach agreement on a special safeguard mechanism to prevent dumping of products onto the indian market to the detriment of india's large rural/farming population. without such a mechanism there are fears for the very survival of the subsistence farmers in india. the key issue of food security is not adequately addressed at the wto and perhaps this is why ultimately the talks failed to deliver. any renewed effort to re-open the talks must ensure that food security concerns of members are adequately addressed. import surges can have a very negative and dramatic impact on local food production, and in developing countries with a large farming base import surges would be hugely damaging to efforts to develop a local agriculture/food production base.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, the president of the european central bank, jean-claude trichet, recently said that, when the market stabilises, we will not return to business as usual, but instead we will experience a new normality. given the failings and weaknesses in the market and institutions that have been brought to light in devastating fashion over the last year, a move away from the abuses and faults of the past is only to be welcomed. the financial crisis has caused terrible panic, but it has also served to emphasise the need to eliminate obscurities and to introduce transparency, and for we legislators to regulate. but we also must avoid panic, because if we panic we will make poor decisions. in the us, out of the scramble to avert catastrophe, radical alterations to the landscape of high finance are emerging. our institutions have stood steadier than those in the states – understandably as the crisis originated across the atlantic – yet certain cases are a reminder that we are in no way invulnerable. to ensure the stability of our markets in the future, we must implement structural and systematic reforms and be prepared to act quickly. there may be three things that will happen or have happened already, such as reforms – for example ensuring that central banks prevent runs on banks and financial institutions – and there has been significant action in this regard already. secondly, treasuries must remove the reason for runs occurring in the first place, namely the presence of distressed assets in the balance sheets of financial institutions. lastly, it is pivotal for the financial system to be recapitalised. we have passed the initial stages of the crisis. the effects on banking and the political response to this initial trauma will not be known for some time. however, we now have to face up to ensuring that the new financial reality that emerges from the other end of this crisis is a strong and healthy one. to this end, it is necessary to address the root of the crisis and to remove distressed assets and clean up balance sheets. to emerge from the quagmire of the crisis, it is also necessary, for both localised and global economic health, to show there is sufficient capital in the finance system. whether this is from public or private injection or a combination of both is another discussion, but we must have one soon. we do not know yet what the full and lasting impact of the world’s financial crisis and its consequences on european markets will be. however, what we do know is that, to emerge standing from this crisis and to be sure that investors, markets and citizens are protected in the new normality that will result, we must keep our heads – even in time of doubt and turmoil – and take concrete steps towards implementing structural and systematic reforms that will safeguard the health of our european system and the financial well-being of citizens of european countries and globally.
mr president, on monday we were told by commissioner mccreevy that hedge funds and private equity were not the cause of the current turmoil. in today’s guardian it was reported that the billionaire john paulson was revealed yesterday as one of the hedge fund bosses who has been short-selling uk bank shares, placing a nearly gbp 1 billion bet that their shares would fall dramatically. his new york-based paulson & co was last year’s most successful hedge fund after it bet against the sub-prime mortgages that later turned toxic in the credit crunch. paulson & co has placed bets on four high street banks, including hbos, which was forced to agree a rescue takeover by lloyds tsb last week after a precipitous collapse in its shares. if commissioner mccreevy is not prepared to regulate all financial institutions, then he should be forced to step aside. the commission has a responsibility to ensure that these institutions are not allowed to pick the pockets of pension funds, of savings and of jobs. they have to be stopped and the only way to do it is to bring transparency and regulation into this area. the so-called ‘invisible hand’ of the market is in fact a pickpocket and the more invisible it is, the more pockets it picks.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i welcome the fact that this debate is encompassing all energy prices, and not just that of oil – which of course is a major concern. over the past year it is not only oil that has experienced a price shock: the cost of coal and gas is rising just as fast as oil, if not faster. as is always the case, the consumers are the worst affected. spikes in energy prices put huge pressure on the budget of the average consumer. as representatives of the people at policy level, it is up to us to implement policies that will ensure a sustainable fuel supply at a reasonable price. how can we achieve this as fuel wells’ supplies approach depletion? we should be concentrating to an even greater degree on renewable energy and resources. we should increase study of, and investment in, alternative fuel sources. this is by no means a new idea, yet to date we have not done enough in this regard. we have a duty to the european people, and for the sake of our environment, to turn our words into actions. environmental protection and consumer financial welfare are not mutually exclusive goals. by spending more money, time and resources on the area of renewable energy, we can achieve them both and can ensure a sustainable supply of energy for the future.
i will take time to digest the detail in your answer. you mentioned in particular the uk. i have an interest, obviously, in the irish situation and we are expecting a tough budget in ireland in a number of weeks. i would like you to comment if you will on the conversations you have had with the irish minister about our deficit and, indeed, whether we will exceed and what impact that will have from an eu perspective.
mr commissioner, can i ask you why you think the european union is losing the information battle on the advantage of strong and consistent biofuel targets, particularly in a world of more limited supply? i would like to ask this in relation to biodiesel, which has the potential to make a significant contribution to enhancing the european union’s security of energy supply. biodiesel can be produced in accordance with sustainability principles without endangering food supply – which you have referred to – and biodiesel is the only renewable energy where europe holds a strong, wide leadership.
indeed, the two questions could almost have been taken together, but the subliminal message, i think, in my irish colleague’s question, if i am doing justice to it, is that he would like to see – or that the legislation might favour – first-generation investment, or at least that we should not apologise for legislation favouring first-generation investment, as that leads on to second- and third-generation. i would come at it slightly differently, and i would like ask you through the chair, commissioner: should not all legislation in this area, as a matter of principle, be technology-neutral?
could you comment please and give your views on the whole issue of the life-cycle sustainability for biofuels, or transport fuels generally, in relation to the turmes report? in other words, on the overall co2 reductions from start to finish, including the production of the crop, the production method, the transport, refining and use. where do you come down in the argument concerning the percentage of co2 reduction? are you in the 40-45% or 35% camp?
firstly i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the roaming package. i think it will be positive news for many eu phone users. my particular question referred to inadvertent roaming charges, when people are travelling close to a border – and indeed i have plenty of experience of that myself. i heard what you said about the transparency initiative, namely that, when crossing borders, users would be informed as to what the cost would be. that was not in reference to telephone calls, but i just want to ask if you have any initiatives in that area and, if you have not, would you consider the transparency initiative that you mentioned a few moments ago in your reply?
madam president, i just want to apologise for not being here when the commissioner was answering my question. i was stuck at another meeting. i am very sorry.
a uachtaráin, tá mé an-bhuíoch den choimisinéir as an tacaíocht agus an dul chun cinn atá déanta ag an gcoimisiún maidir leis an teanga ghaeilge, ach tá seanfhocal againn sa ngaeilge a deireann ‘is é a laghad a locht’. níl agam ach leathnóiméad anois, mar sin ní fhéadfaidh mé an t-am a chur amú, ach níl agam ach nóiméad den uair is mó atá am agam anseo sa pharlaimint chun mo theanga féin a labhairt. ba mhaith liom a fhiafrú den choimisinéir: an mbeadh an coimisiún sásta anois go mbeadh forbairt ar an teanga ghaeilge agus go bhféadfadh muid í a úsáid níos leithne anseo sa bparlaimint agus san institiúid eile – go háirithe, b’fhéidir, ag leibhéal an choiste áit ar féidir linn an teanga a úsáid níos leithne? ní mhairfidh teanga ar chúpla soicind.
mr president, more than half of the european population is overweight, and the world health organisation tells us that a billion people worldwide are overweight, 300 million of them obese. as many as 50% of europeans take no exercise at all. cardio-metabolic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease are growing at an alarming rate, and those with high levels of obesity are extremely prone to develop type-two diabetes with all the consequent morbidity issues, as witness the alarming increases in this type of diabetes among very young teenagers. doctors are now also telling us there is a serious connection between obesity and dementia/alzheimer’s disease. critically this is a huge challenge for policymakers, especially when it comes to our children, 22 million of whom are overweight in europe. we have reached a stage in this strange world of ours today where there are more people overweight than there are hungry. on top of all of this, particularly in wealthier countries, we have an increasingly problematic relationship with food, with increasing anorexia and bulimia, diseases of countries where there is plenty to eat. although health matters largely fall within the member states’ area of competence, there are many ways in which issues around obesity can be tackled at eu level: exchange of best practice, promoting healthier lifestyles in relevant eu policies and cross-border epidemiological cooperation. last week i hosted a breakfast week here in parliament, where we underlined the fact that 61% of europeans skip breakfast regularly during the week. this fact can be directly linked to excess weight gain by our doctors. the harvard medical school recently conducted a study which found that people who ate breakfast every day were 35% less likely to be obese. research has also found that these people who skip breakfast are likely to be more tired, irritable and restless in the morning. starting the day with a proper blood-sugar level is the best antidote to snacking and sugar cravings. so while citizens are ultimately personally responsible for their own diets, the ongoing promotion of healthier lifestyles is a must. i support this report strongly, except for paragraph 28, with which i cannot agree: i do not believe tax measures should be raised in a health-based report.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur: this report is very timely and deserves the full attention of policymakers. the facts on obesity are startling and have already been quoted. yesterday at a major conference in dublin a nutrition expert claimed that ireland was on the cusp of an obesity crisis, and, indeed, a similar situation pertains across europe. i want to briefly mention just one issue: self-regulation versus legislation. we have a voluntary code for the advertising of food of poor nutritional value to children, but there is a large question mark over whether this is working or not. according to the irish heart alliance, this voluntary code is not effective. i believe we need to monitor it very carefully and take immediate action if necessary. mr bushill-matthews mentioned personal responsibility. that is fine at one level, but we need clear, understandable food labelling – colour coding is a positive step. we live in a world where we consume greater and greater amounts of processed foods. indeed, certain eu policies promote this – the lisbon agenda: more people at work, less time for food preparation. i fully support the lisbon agenda, but, alongside that, we as eu policymakers have a duty to ensure that food manufacturers make it very clear what is contained in the processed foods they manufacture.
mr president, at the beginning of this year i conducted a number of consultation meetings throughout my constituency in the context of eu policy on social issues, and then these meetings fed into the commission consultation on social reality stock-taking. it was very clear to me that citizens are very interested in the eu becoming more involved in social policy, and that certainly includes patient mobility. indeed, the call for more social europe was reinforced during the lisbon treaty campaign, and this response from the commission, while not fully addressing the concerns of citizens, is timely and a step in the right direction. i certainly welcome the proposals on patient mobility, but agree with some of the previous speakers that very many issues still need to be clarified – in particular, the issue of prior authorisation. however, the bottom line is that patients must be at the core of any policy and should have no worries about costs, safety and quality. in the mean time, patients must be fully informed of their existing rights, since legal uncertainty always works to the disadvantage of individuals who do not have many personal resources. finally, the french presidency referred to the fact earlier that some people will be disappointed that the issue of the mobility of health-care professionals has not been dealt with. i am one of those people. if we are to put patients at the core of any policy, then patient safety is paramount, so we must establish standardised accreditation systems for health-care professionals throughout the eu.
mr president, i am both looking forward to and dreading the cross-border health directive. i am looking forward to it because i know so many people who are more disabled, and so many people who have died, as a result of a long wait for treatment in irish public hospitals. so the thought that my constituents will be able to get their medical records and travel without the current prior authorisation obstacle presented by the e112 scheme, to go and get treatment promptly, is wonderful. i will certainly be advising those of my constituents who can travel to do so. however, i am also aware that this will further exacerbate the problems in the irish health system, and for those who cannot travel, and who must rely on that health system, i am in dread.
mr president, i welcome the proposal from the commission. the question that is being asked is ‘what can europe do for me?’. i think it is important that we make health care available if it is not available in the home country. as one of the people who has benefited from cross-border health care – but i could afford it – it is important that it is available to everyone right across the community. however, the issue that arises is that there should not be a delay in making sure that treatment is available. that is one of the things that i think is important in developing this policy.
mr president, i believe there are a number of principles that have to be addressed in this issue. the first is that patients’ health obviously has to be at the heart of it. we must not leave the issue of these rights to decision by the courts. we as lawmakers must make the law in this area. thirdly, competition must not be encouraged, or be the outcome of this directive, between national health services; nor indeed should competition generally be encouraged in this area.
in writing. − i cannot support this report. while i agree with, and welcome, many of its proposals, i have concerns regarding the narrowing of the scope of the vat exemption in respect of investment funds. i believe it is better to maintain the status quo.
in writing. − i cannot support this report or amendment 6 as i feel that it is inappropriate to include tax- or vat-based issues in a health-based report such as this.
in writing. − there are a number of basic principles that have to be applied to the right of eu patients to seek care in another member state other than their own. we cannot allow the ecj to make policy in this area on a case by case, piecemeal basis. they will decide purely on market grounds and not on the basis of the uniqueness of health care as a non-market universal service. the health and wellbeing of patients has to be at the core of the law we make in this area. until such time as there is agreement that we can harmonise our national health services to the highest standards, then ms must be free to plan and fund and manage services to deliver high quality public health services within their borders. competition between national health services must not be an objective or an outcome of this legislation. the best interests of patients will not be served by treating health as simply another commodity to be bought and sold. this in my view would drive standards down.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, a number of years ago two problems were identified with the european schools. one was that they were lagging far behind in inclusiveness and integrated policies for special education needs (sen) children. the other was that when parents would make an application to the school for a child with special needs, they had a practice of saying that they were not really able to meet their needs and the parents should go and find something else. this really was not good enough. in december 2007, parliament set money aside in its budget to ‘contribute to the financing of first-class education for sen children and to promote the concept of inclusive education and that this sum is to be released upon presentation of a proposal for the launch of a pilot project for the sen resource centre comprising qualified personnel with relevant experience and appropriate teaching materials’. in the time i have i will not go through the negotiations, the back and forth, that have gone on about this pilot project. what has come about is that the pilot project has become several half-posts in psychology and some other resources, but it is not what i would see as a pilot project: actual classes, integrated classes throughout the european schools. i feel it is time for us to be very clear about the goal. the goal is inclusion and the goal is to integrate children in a way that is possible for them. there are now 411 sen pupils in the european schools in the sen project. this is 2%, and yet disability in the general population is 17%. we are still not allowing enough children with special education needs into the schools, so we are still missing out on 15%. i cannot believe the figure for the population of people entitled to those schools is different from that in the general population. we certainly need to have a project and assess the situation but we could do that for ever – we have been looking at the situation for ever! it is time to move beyond the pilot schemes. it is time to make a real approach to children as standard practice in all the schools. we are a long way from doing that. this is the other meaning of diversity. it is not just about languages and cultures: it is about peoples’ needs and their abilities and catering to the wide diversity of that as well.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, first of all i want to pay tribute to the council and congratulate them for their efforts, particularly with regard to russia and the situation in georgia. it took a lot of strength and courage and great diplomacy to find a peaceful solution to the difficulties which we faced. it proved – if anybody needed further proof – that collectively and with strong leadership we can achieve an awful lot more than mere military might or economic wealth can bring to us, simply by the example that we give and the tactics that we employ. secondly i think it is important to make sure that bringing the euro-mediterranean partnership to life is on the agenda for the upcoming council. never at any stage in our history is it more required that we bring together our partners at the mediterranean level to guarantee that we can bring about not just economic development but also the peaceful coexistence of nations. in particular we should follow the example of the egyptian government in their ongoing peace negotiations with regard to sudan, chad and other areas. i have two further points. it would be wrong of me not to mention the situation with regard to ireland and the lisbon treaty. member states have already given ireland a period for reflection – for which we are thankful – but this is no different to the period of reflection which both france and the netherlands got when they rejected the constitutional treaty. it takes time to put forward proposals and ideas as to how these difficulties can be resolved. it behoves us in parliament to ensure that we do not try to put the gun to any country’s head regarding whether or not it will ratify the treaty – in particular because it requires a democratic vote of the people to guarantee the ratification of that treaty. secondly, regarding the present financial crisis, i do not blame or point a finger at any particular person. i congratulate the council for getting their act together and taking decisive action. i once again congratulate the commission for actually standing up and saying what needed to be said before the council acted and for ensuring that credibility was put into the market by saying that we are capable, able and willing to take action, either through the ecb, ecofin, individual member states or whatever else. but let us not make the mistake of saying that everything that went on in the last two weeks is wrong and that everything that comes in the future is going to be right. our history must teach us that, over the period of time that we have been living in this world, there have been alterations and changes. those alterations and changes bring horrors of hardship on people. we must first of all guarantee to protect the ordinary person. the banks have got a bail-out. the banks have got a guarantee. with that guarantee also comes the responsibility for banks to now start lending to businesses and to people, to allow the economies to pick up again. it is not only about cutting the wages or salaries of executives; it is about ensuring that the economic cycle can get back to where it is supposed to be. the deposit guarantee is only a small aspect of this.
madam president, it is my view that, sooner rather than later, the irish government must seek to resolve the irish roadblock to lisbon, and should do so by maintaining ireland as a full member, not as a semi-detached member, which opt-outs would relegate us to. we need lisbon now more than ever to strengthen europe globally and to respond effectively to citizens’ concerns. the financial crisis is yet another market meltdown. it has happened again because most governments bought into the fairytale that global markets could be self-regulating, and failed to apply democratic controls to the market. the euro is an example of what europe can achieve when it seriously shares sovereignty. certainly, if ireland had opted to keep the irish pound it would have disappeared, sunk without trace by now. president barroso has admitted he got little cooperation from member states in producing a coordinated response to the crisis. he is silent, however, about commissioner mccreevy’s continued resistance to re-regulation. commissioner mccreevy is incapable of abandoning his neo-liberal ideology and i am therefore very concerned that he is being included in the three-person body that president barroso is establishing. could i just make one final point? i propose to put mr farage’s speech today in this parliament on my website, because i believe the more irish people hear what he has to say about ireland and about europe, the more likely they are to vote ‘yes’ for the european union.
madam president, at next week’s european council summit, nothing new will come from an taoiseach brian cowan in relation to the current lisbon treaty impasse in ireland. instead he will make an intervention similar to that of his colleague, minister micheál martin, where only an analysis of the results was communicated on monday to the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament. nothing concrete will be proposed until the december council summit, where a clear road map ahead is expected to be outlined. in order to expedite moves towards this road map, i would like to expound my idea on how to now move forward. first, in my view, there cannot be a second referendum for at least 12 months, in order to allow adequate consultation with the irish electorate. a second referendum should be called during the autumn of next year, possibly in october. this means that parliament elections will have to take place under the nice treaty, but this is the lesser of two evils in my opinion. as to the nature of the second referendum, i would propose an extended plebiscite on the lisbon treaty in ireland, where we would have a constitutional referendum on yes or no to the lisbon treaty while, on the same day, polling consultative referenda on key opt-in, opt-out issues such as the eu charter of fundamental rights and european security and defence policy. if in the extended referendum irish voters were to opt out of either of these two areas, the irish government could then seek a separate agreement at the european council to be signed by all 27 member states. this move would be similar to the precedent of the edinburgh agreement sought by the danes at the council meeting in december 1992, which granted denmark four exemptions to the maastricht treaty. this allowed them to ratify the treaty overall. with this plan, member states who have already ratified the lisbon treaty would not have to do so again. this extended plebiscite would offer the irish electorate a choice as to the extent of the role that they want to play within the european union.
in writing. – the global financial crisis will rightly top the agenda of the october council. the crisis is man made – from the usa to the eu and beyond, the meltdown in the banking and financial sector is as shocking as it is real. there is a sense of disbelief that the unthinkable – namely the collapse of the banking system – is now upon us. the demise of individual banks and dramatic intervention of governments to shore up the fragile financial sectors has resulted in great public unease about the ability of politicians to protect them against such eventualities. banks do not want regulation, and it is now clear that regulation was weak and ineffective in protecting not just the banking customers but the very institutions themselves. yet, when times got tough for the banks, they ran to the politicians to rescue them. so it is up to us to seize this moment and place the power back where it should always have resided, and that is in the political system, rather than in the financial markets.
madam president, i should like to welcome commissioner mccreevy. i have listened to many colleagues’ reaction to the irish response to our banking confidence crisis and liquidity problems and the follow-through from other countries in the days since, because, having criticised the irish, they then had to follow on. it is more than ironic that we now debate today the supervisory architecture for financial services in europe. i do not know if you could call it a happy coincidence or too little, too late. would things have been so much different if we had had some sort of supervisory architecture in place, particularly in terms of the rating agencies? it seems to me, when you go back to the first base, that they are really the cause of many of the problems. they allowed the sub-prime crisis to get out of control by continuing to give strong ratings to institutions that had packaged these devious products and sold them on. hence the problem we have with us today. let us be sure that our response reflects cool heads and proper thinking, given the crisis within which we are talking.
mr president, the visa issue is very important to all belarusians. but i would like to highlight a specific situation with regard to travel. the chernobyl children’s project international founded by adi roche in ireland brings approximately 1 000 children from belarus to ireland each year for a few weeks for rest, recuperation and, in some cases, ongoing medical interventions. in total, 17 000 children have come since the charity started. unfortunately, permission has been withdrawn for the children to come to ireland, and this has devastated everybody concerned: the children, their host families and so many others. this is such a good project and everybody benefits. an intergovernmental agreement is being worked on and i hope it will be finalised soon, but in the meantime i know that ireland is seeking an exemption from the ban. i would ask the commission and the council, perhaps in its informal dialogue, to do all they can to ensure the continuation of this very worthwhile project. i know it is just a small part of the overall situation, but it will make such a positive difference to so many lives.
mr president, i call on the council and the commission to urge the belarus authorities to end their practice of issuing exit visas to their citizens, in particular children and students. whereas in most instances a visa is required to enter a country, in belarus one needs a visa in order to leave the country. i raised the issue of the international travel ban on children from this country with the belarus opposition leader alexander milinkevich during the ppe-de group meeting this morning. he told our group that the belarus regime has imposed this travel ban as it does not want children to see how the other half lives. from my own constituency of ireland south, something like eur 70 million has been raised and expended in looking after children and improving the conditions in which they live in their orphanages. my colleague marian harkin has already referred to the ban here this evening. i understand now that in fact the bilateral agreement between ireland and belarus will not be in place until may or june. therefore i join with her in calling for the exemption to be granted to ireland so that children can travel for christmas and get the help and assistance that they require.
mr president, i want to pick up on this point about ‘disconnect’ which michael cashman rightly raised. certainly in the lisbon treaty debate in ireland there was a huge disconnect. but let us not blame ourselves here too much, because member states have a great capacity to blame europe for things they are uncomfortable with, even though they have agreed to them here. i think it is time we all grew up – all our elected politicians, governments, opposition and everyone in this house – and tell the truth. i am dispirited to read this magazine this week where an unelected, unaccountable member of a wealthy elite is giving out about the unelected elite in brussels. he has some cheek! but unless we do what michael cashman says and tackle him and his ilk upfront, the european elections in june will be a disaster for the people of europe, and it is about time those of us who believe that said it loudly.
madam president, amidst the angst and concern about the banking sector there is perhaps some hope. i am glad that the commissioner for agriculture is here to listen to me because maybe it is at a time of crisis that europe can actually rise to the challenge. remember the bse crisis when the entire beef industry and food sector was in collapse and confidence was gone, and europe reacted by bringing in tough regulations from farm to fork, traceability with penalties. let us say to the banking sector, this is their bse moment, and they will rise from the ashes, but they will have to be better regulated. they will have to be tagged and traced – the people and the money – and those who are engaged in bad practices will have to be penalised. but there is hope. we have experience, and i believe that europe will be better as a result of this crisis because we will regulate better.
madam president, the recent publication of the first-ever eurobarometer survey of our citizens’ views on climate change marks the rise of climate change from being a niche environmental issue to being at the heart of european policy. given the global economic and financial turmoil at the moment, i can fully understand the concerns of colleagues as we as politicians address what is unquestionably the single greatest moral, environmental, social and economic challenge facing the whole of mankind, namely global warming from our greenhouse gas emissions, or climate change. but it will not wait; copenhagen will not wait and we cannot be found wanting. as rapporteur for one of the four dossiers of the post-2012 climate change regime – namely the ets review – i have full confidence in our governments to resolve, in the shorter term, these major economic and financial issues with which we are presented today, and resolve them long before 2013. so while it is the nature of politics to focus on today’s problems today, we must not be distracted from legislating now for the longer term, for the post-2012 scenario, on this most important of issues, or history will not judge us kindly.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá sé in am againn athrú a chur ar an mbealach ina ndéanann muid na cainteanna trádála domhanda seo a láimhseáil. mar, is léir anois go bhfuil ag cliseadh ar an gcóras agus ar an mbealach ina láimhseálann muid é uair i ndiaidh uaire. chlis muid in cancun, cliseadh i hong cong, cliseadh in geneva. tá sé uilig bunaithe air seo: go bhfuil muid ag iarraidh pacáiste a chur chun cinn san eoraip anseo atá ag díol amach ár bhfoinse beatha – an bia atá muid a sholáthar. rinne an t-iarchoimisinéir mandelson a sheacht ndícheall chun an polasaí talmhaíochta a iompú droim ar ais, chun go gcuirfí córas trádála domhanda chun cinn. ní féidir linn a bheith sásta leis sin. cá bhfaighimid beatha nuair a bheas orainn é a fháil ó i bhfad ó bhaile? caithfidh muid a bheith cúramach anseo san eoraip, agus caithfidh muid slándáil a dhéanamh ar an bhfoinse beatha atá againn. d’athraigh muid ár bpolasaí talmhaíochta, ach mura ndéantar an talmhaíocht a thógáil amach as cúrsaí trádála domhanda, ní bheidh aon dul chun cinn ann, ní bheidh aon rath ann. tá sé in am é a dhéanamh, tá muid á rá le fada.
madam president, like others here, i was in geneva and was amazed and amused sometimes at how the wto works. in this case, it did not. for once the common agriculture policy was not directly in the firing line and i think that is to be welcomed. but agriculture at a more global level very definitely was still top of the agenda. the talks collapsed because india and china were concerned about protecting their farmers from agricultural import surges. i think the words of the indian trade commissioner are worth repeating. kamal nath said: ‘this is the last mile we could not run because of an issue of livelihood security.’ india saw protection of its large and relatively poor rural and farming population as vital and believed that a wto agreement was not in its best interests. we are now seven years into the process. peter mandelson has left the stage after four years at the helm. i believe he failed to listen to the concerns of farmers, particularly european union farmers, and the food industry, and dismissed their voice by claiming that the development part of the agenda was to the fore. his proposals would have decimated the eu livestock sector, not to the benefit of the developing world, but rather to the low-cost emerging economies and their large ranches and ranchers. as i said, he has now left the stage and i wonder whether he saw the writing on the wall. if he really was concerned about the development agenda, why did he not stay and complete the work? food security is now a big political priority. we are seeing huge fluctuations in the price of commodities. i understand that the grain market has collapsed today. we have to ask ourselves whether this is the best way of ensuring the supply of food to all consumers at reasonable prices. more importantly, we should look at our development policy, where we have failed to invest in agriculture in the developing world. let us go for a deal but one that is fair and balanced.
mr president, i should like to thank richard seeber for his commitment in this most important area. i fully support the movement towards a water-efficient and water-saving economy and of course the full implementation of the water framework directive, which i was very involved in a few years ago when my former austrian colleague marilies flemming was the rapporteur. in fact the contents of article 9 of the water framework directive, to which i would like to draw attention tonight, were a result of an amendment i made to the original draft proposal. i would like an assurance from the commission that any proposals regarding water pricing or compulsory water metering, if it should arise, would be expressed in accordance with article 9 of the water framework directive, which allows for the continuation of the established irish practice of not charging domestic householders for domestic usage. please do not ask me to justify the sustainability of this to you here and now, but please believe me that it is a matter of acute political sensitivity and one, if i may suggest, best handled by irish governments rather than under an eu directive. we are a wet island off the west of europe but we too are facing shortage as we consider the impact of climate change on water.
mr president, the arctic plays an increasingly important geo-strategic role in the world, and we are now faced with the opening of hitherto closed seaways as a direct result of global climate change. this should not come as any surprise to us, however, as the arctic is warming at a much faster rate with an increase of 2°c in temperature in the last hundred years compared to an average of 0.6°c increase in the rest of the world. this highly fragile and vulnerable ecosystem is coming under increasing pressure from resource-hungry nations which wish to exploit its potential. without any multilateral governance in place, we would have no guarantee that they would have due regard for the sustainable lifestyle of the indigenous peoples or for the arctic’s fundamental importance as a stabilising force for the world’s climate. the arctic is critical for global climate stability, and i would urge the commission to ensure that this is fully reflected in the forthcoming commission communication on arctic policy, together of course with energy and security policy matters. and, as paragraph 9 of our resolution says, ‘by virtue of its impact on the world’s climate and its singular natural environment, [the arctic] merits special consideration as the eu develops its position for the 2009 cop 15 framework convention on climate change in ... copenhagen’, and as we discuss a framework for multilateral governance for this unique area.
in writing. – road transport is an essential economic activity in the eu. compliance with rules for driving, working time and rest periods are basic requirements for ensuring road safety and the health and safety of drivers and passengers. we particularly welcome the inclusion of all workers in the sector, including self-employed drivers, within the rules on working time which will guarantee fair competition within the sector. it must also be clear that the directive establishes minimum requirements and must under no circumstances lead to a levelling down of the more favourable conditions that already exist in some member states.
in writing. – this report has been described as a holistic approach to eradicating poverty. however, as the global financial storm continues to batter our citizens and economies, it has never been more clear that we live in an interconnected, interdependent world. policies enacted within the union also have effect outside the union. therefore, problems outside the union should inform the policies within it. we cannot isolate the fight against poverty in europe from the global fight against exclusion. child labour reinforces poverty, condemning generation after generation to ignorance, ill health and early death. the proper place for children is in school. a developed economy cannot be built by an uneducated workforce. children at work exclude their parents from such work and thereby the potential to struggle for better conditions. indeed, children at work contribute to the global race to the bottom.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his well-prepared response to the commission. we are all aware that it is member states’ individual responsibility to decide on the organisation and delivery of their health services and medical care. however, this should not mean that they neglect serious health cooperation at eu level. there are a wide range of health issues, such as the prevention of pandemics and the movement of patients or health professionals, where member states cannot act effectively in isolation and where action at eu level is necessary. eu action can be valuable in creating pan-european networks of expertise which permit exchange of best practice in fields such as e-health, nanotechnology, rare disease treatments or centres of excellence. the eu, in partnership with member states, has made important progress in protecting health, for example in the area of legislating on tobacco advertising, in the area of blood products, and indeed in the launch of the european centre for disease control. we need to strengthen action to reduce health inequities across the eu-27, in particular through exchange of best practice and through better public information on citizens’ cross-border health-care rights. we need to legislate in this area quickly, and not let ecj judgments be the patients’ sole guide around europe. we need to respond with proper legislation. furthermore, comprehensive health impact assessments and evaluation on all legislation across the board should be carried out, in order to provide a platform for joined-up thinking and better enable decision-makers to assess the real cost to human health of any policy initiative. this should be done in the same way that environmental impact assessments are now taken for granted as a way of informing legislators, and are a prerequisite for the formulation of most eu policies. even with the backdrop of the economic and financial crisis today, health is our ultimate wealth.
in writing. – i would like to take the opportunity to give particular welcome to certain provisions within the health strategy, notably the inclusion of autism spectrum disorders which are increasingly affecting children throughout europe, and would like to mention the excellent research that is already being undertaken in this area, with the help of the commission. i commend the new focus on rare diseases, alzheimer’s, and research into mental illness and men’s health, as well as the continued focus on recognised conditions such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer. i am glad to see carers mentioned as it is important to remember that medical conditions not only affect the sufferer but also those who love and care for them and hope that the mention translates into practical support for those at the coalface. i also applaud the constructive focus on prevention, especially in the avoidance of alcohol and drug use during pregnancy.
in writing. − the report contains a number of problems, including the promotion of atypical contracts and of ’flexicurity’, which risk undermining fixed employment contracts. also the fact that the report is framed in the context of the deeply flawed lisbon strategy is a problem there also appear to be contradictions in what is being said in relation to the posted workers in different language versions. despite these difficulties the report contains enough positive elements for me to be able to support it.
in writing. − as the negotiations collapsed it was becoming clearer that agriculture in the eu was being undermined in the name of ‘development’, but that the ‘development’ in question was in the interests of service providers in developed countries and of the global food corporations rather than the people of developing countries. the mandelson proposals should be taken off the table immediately. in the current climate where the consequences of the lack of regulation of international finance are ever more apparent, food security needs to become a priority in a way which is beneficial to developing and developed countries. this justifies having non-market mechanisms to support the farm sector. in the current climate where the consequences of the lack of control of international finance are all too apparent this is particularly urgent. the wto doha round needs a complete reorientation in order to create a win-win situation for the eu and for developing countries.
in writing. − water scarcity is an urgent issue affecting european and global citizens. this report makes us aware that the eu wastes 20% of water due to inefficiency; there is a lack of awareness among the public for promoting water saving and 17% of the eu region suffers from severe water shortage. in response, the eu needs to take a holistic approach with precise measures for better water management and supply. it is clear that we have a great potential (savings up to 40%) for water saving through technological improvements, changes in human behaviour and production patterns, which should replace the current crisis management style. water saving technologies and irrigation management in the industrial and agricultural sectors could reduce excesses by as much as 43% while water efficiency measures could decrease water wastage by up to a third. currently, agriculture consumes 64% of water while 20% is used by energy, 12% by the public and 4% by industry. furthermore, droughts are increasingly affected by climate change causing forest fires which are environmentally destructive. the eu aims to enhance recycling of waste water and develop desalination, improve water management policies based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle, establish labelling schemes, research and monitor activities to halt desertification, improve crop rotation systems and promote more efficient water usage among the public.
in writing. − i voted for this report due to the pressing need for the member states to transpose social legislation and to ensure it is duly enforced. the health and well-being of freight transport drivers as well as the safety of other road users depend on clear rules concerning issues such as working time, driving hours and periods of rest, as well as on effective inspections and penalties for non-compliance. it is thus very important that member states speed up the transposition of directive 2002/15/ec, and also that the european parliament assert the support for the inclusion of all road transport drivers within the working time legislation applicable in this field, regardless of their employment status. i can see no reason why self-employed drivers should be exempt from measures which contribute to the safety of our roads.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, given the urgency of the financial situation hitting the eu and other global financial markets. this report is important because we need effective regulatory and supervisory arrangements to improve monitoring of the workings of the financial services market. in particular, i welcome the oral amendment calling for a level playing field in terms of protection for eu citizens in relation to deposit protection. it is unfair that citizens in one member state can avail of a higher level of protection in terms of sums on deposit – the range across member states varies from eur 20 000 to unlimited guarantees in ireland. i also welcome the call for a more coordinated response in the eu to the financial crisis and that divergences between the national regimes of member states should be reduced to the greatest possible extent. i would also call on the irish government to come forward with all the details of the bank guarantee scheme and note that it has now been extended to non-irish banks mindful of eu competition rules.
a uachtaráin, tá sé thar am ag an gcoimisiún eorpach athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar an mbealach a n-oibríonn treoir na ngnáthóg san aontas eorpach. tá cur i bhfeidhm na treorach i bhfad ródhian, dar liomsa, agus tá breis solúbthachta ag teastáil anois. tá cur i bhfeidhm na treorach ag cur as d’fhorbairtí móra bonneagair in iarthar na héireann, agus tá cuarbhóthar chathair na gaillimhe thíos leis seo. tá an bóthar seo ag teastáil go géar agus beidh an chathair agus an daonra thíos leis go mór mura dtugtar cead é a thógaint agus é a fhorbairt. ní raibh sé riamh i gceist go mbeadh an treoir seo ag cur as do mhóroibreacha poiblí. tá sé in am anois a iarraidh ar an gcoimisinéir dimas gníomhú, agus athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar an treoir seo ionas nach mbeadh sé ag cur as d’fhorbairt thábhachtach atá in ann eacnamaíocht an cheantair a chur chun cinn.
mr president, i think all of us will welcome the fact that some kind of normalisation is beginning to return to financial markets. however, this is not a one-strand crisis, unfortunately, and there are other areas that need to be looked at. one of those is the whole area of credit cards. current credit behaviour has proven to be unsustainable, both on an individual and on a broader level. tv programmes, newspapers and magazines over the last years have highlighted the perils of multiple credit card ownership by people who have trouble paying off even one of these cards. obviously it is up to the individual to act responsibly in this regard, but it is also up to financial institutions, and increasingly retailers, to act responsibly in offering advertising and granting these cards. it is up to us as public representatives to ensure our citizens are adequately informed. we can stabilise our markets, try to inject liquidity into markets, but if we do not address the issue of responsible credit activity, not just at national and international level, but at all the levels of the economic system, eventual recovery is likely to be limited and unsustainable. to put this into context, the securitised market for credit cards is about as large as the sub-prime mortgage market.
mr president, three weeks ago, the global financial crisis that had threatened america’s banking system with meltdown began to take its toll on this side of the atlantic. for many of my constituents, economic disaster had been theoretical, but since then it has become a hard reality rather than a distant threat, as jobs are lost, house prices plunge and social services are being cut. i welcome the swift action by the commission and the member states in securing deposits and in shoring up the capital of banks, because it does not take long for a global crisis to become a domestic one.
mr president, the commission proposal on patients’ rights to cross-border health care seeks to broaden the rights of patients to obtain treatment abroad if they experience undue delay in receiving treatment at home. a chronic example of undue delay has been brought to my attention recently in my own constituency. children in the hse southern region are being forced to wait up to 48 months for orthodontic treatment. moreover, waiting times have become even longer over the past three years. it is my sincerest hope that with the cross-border proposal we can work towards shortening such undue delay by making it easier for patients to travel to receive quality treatment on time. ultimately it should be the right of all patients to receive high-quality treatment close to home, but in the case of blatant gaps in provision we should have the right to travel freely to receive this necessary treatment abroad.
mr president, it is imperative that, if approved this week, commissioner designate baroness ashton achieves the right balance between eu food security and food independence on the one hand and helping developing markets in promoting free trade on the other, notwithstanding our existing relationship with acp nations, which has been extremely important to them and us. the multilateral trade system has been an important contributor to global prosperity by opening up such markets, and the world trade organisation (wto) has been most effective in providing a more level playing field for poorer nations. however, any future wto agreement must not unnecessarily expose vital sectors of our eu economy. on currently available proposals, future eu agricultural production would be threatened. it is predicted that in ireland alone the value of output from the beef sector could decline by eur 120 million per year and, overall, the drop in agricultural output value across ireland could amount to up to eur 450 million per annum. we must never agree to threaten the eu’s strategic food security, and the commissioner in her challenging new job would be wise to listen closely to the concerns of this parliament and observe the mandate she is given by eu governments.
mr president, while any cod recovery plan would need first of all to incentivise those member states and fishermen who contribute to a reduction in cod mortality, and also secondly to reduce by-catch and eliminate discards – eliminate, not reduce, discards – no cod recovery plan has any credibility unless it factors in the whole climate change point in relation to the cod feeding and breeding grounds, as so eloquently put on the record a few moments ago by my colleague, mr stevenson, and that must play a large part in any cod recovery plan if it is to have credibility in this day and age. i agree that reducing by-catch through cod avoidance programmes is of paramount importance. however, we should refer to the need to reduce by-catch and eliminate discards. that is to say, the reduction of cod caught in the net (the by-catch), and not landed (the discard), is crucial. without it, fishing is not sustainable ecologically or economically. while ireland has proposed a pilot project for 2009 to reduce cod discards in our nephrops fishery in part of the celtic sea, hopefully with incentives for fishermen and a major role for them in monitoring and control which will be key to successful enforcement of the project, i must however ask the commissioner a question in the light of what our rapporteur referred to as ‘new evaluations suggesting the celtic sea is over-exploited and so needs to be controlled’: according to ices a 2009 tac for the celtic sea area was recommended which indicates that the stock is stronger there than in other areas covered by the recovery plan. is or is not the celtic sea to be included in a recovery plan? does it or does it not need to be? who do we listen to on the scientific front?
mr president, i would like to inform the commissioner that cod was once one of the most common fish in irish waters and on irish tables. for my fishermen, fishing is more than a job: it is a way of life, a tradition, even a vocation. many of my fishermen are doing mixed fishing, and for them, discards are more than a waste and a contradiction: they are an abomination. we have to help equip fishermen to fish more selectively in order to protect the cod and, at the same time as we – hopefully – reduce discards, we must start using them and putting them to good purpose: land them and give them to hospitals. we must not only end the discard of cod and other fish, but we have to end the scandal of the discard of cod and other fish.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would firstly like to extend my gratitude to the fisheries committee and especially its rapporteur, mr guerreiro, for his report. the commission understands the difficulties encountered in outermost regions in executing the decisions on fleet modernisation taken in 2006. it cannot, however, accept the continuation of granting public aid to renewal and modernisation of the fleet, since this leads to fleet overcapacity and low economic efficiency in the medium-to-long term. however, we understand the point raised by the rapporteur that, in certain cases, the decisions we have already taken have led to a backlog in shipyards which cannot cope with the work foreseen before a given deadline. therefore we are ready to accept the extension of the deadline for the entry into the fleet up to 2011, as suggested by the rapporteur. thus i am willing to accept amendments 2 and 7. however, the commission also believes that the basic rules of fleet management – that is, an entry and exit regime guaranteeing no increases in capacity and the withdrawal of public subsidy to such capacity increases – must be safeguarded. otherwise outermost regions would be at risk of generating – as happened with the metropolitan fleets – an excess of fishing capacity that ultimately would undermine their economy. let me also mention in this connection the fuel package that was adopted in july of this year in the context of the economic crisis driven by high fuel prices. i would like to invite all actors concerned in the outermost regions to make best use of this package in order to improve the energy efficiency of their fleets and to make the fleets more economically viable through schemes offered in the package, such as restructuring and partial decommissioning. this is why the commission, on the basis of what i said before, is not ready to accept amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 11. finally, amendment 8 could be accepted as long as it is understood that the commission report should be delayed until all information is available on the utilisation of the derogations provided for in the regulation. regarding the call made to the commission to eventually propose new measures, may i emphasise that this lies within the right of initiative of the commission, which will in any case propose new measures if it is felt that it is necessary and appropriate to do so.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the critical issues that affect fishing in the outermost regions seem to be the same as those that all fishermen face, only they are more amplified. there is a very real threat to the future of these fisheries – piracy, discards, dwindling stocks etc., ageing vessels and fleets – but for them these problems are even more of a burden, because they are already very vulnerable. we need to help our most remote fishing communities to maintain not just their livelihood but their skills, which they have honed over generations and which, without protection, are in danger of being lost – not just to them but to us. we must all take heed of the changing socioeconomic needs of these outermost regions, taking into account the impact which they are experiencing in their sector. in order to help them survive, we must allow them more participation in their management, as well as specific measures like the extension of time for fleet renewal.
mr president, i would just like to show some solidarity, coming from an island nation where, in our peripheral regions, the fishing community is extremely important – the culture, the traditions and skills – and where in these regions, alternative industry and alternative ways of life or occupations are extremely difficult to attract. if we can show that solidarity towards the peripheral regions in europe, what must we show to the outermost regions, which are at the extreme edge of peripherality, if you like? i would like to support the case made here to support the skills, traditions and culture of the fishing communities in these outermost regions and in very isolated, often very small island communities in the peripheral areas of the eu. i would like to support what colleagues have said, and i would urge commissioner borg to ensure that, if it is a question of an extension of state aid in terms of timelines for renewal of fishing fleets, whatever needs to be done, let us be as generous as we possibly can.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, i gcaitheamh na mblianta, chuir oibrithe agus ceardchumainn muinín san aontas eorpach chun a gcoinníollacha oibre a fheabhsú agus chun iad a chosaint. workers across europe have a right to decent work, to equality for all workers. they have a right to organise, agitate and campaign to improve their lot at work. they have a rightful expectation that the law should recognise and vindicate these rights. the series of european court of justice rulings which the andersson report purports to address represent an audacious attack on these basic rights. these court rulings have given the green light to the wholesale exploitation of workers. the court rulings are a reflection of the legal status quo, a reflection of the fact that, when workers’ rights collide with the rules of competition, it is the rule of competition which prevails. the court rulings have given legal legitimacy to what is called the ‘race to the bottom’. i am very disappointed with this report. it deliberately avoids calling for the changes to the eu treaties that we all know are needed to protect workers. this call for treaty change was deliberately and cynically removed from the first draft of this report, despite the overwhelming calls from the trade union movement across europe for a social progress clause to be inserted in the treaties. the vulnerability of workers’ rights was one of the main reasons for the irish vote against the lisbon treaty, even though eu leaders conveniently prefer to ignore this uncomfortable fact. if any new treaty is to be acceptable to people across europe, then it must ensure adequate protection for workers. we parliamentarians now have an opportunity to insist that the treaties include a binding social progress clause or protocol. if the amendments to this effect do not pass today, then the european parliament will have taken yet another step away from the people we purport to represent, and in this case i have no doubt that irish workers will share my disappointment that the european parliament has let them down.
madam president, the internal market is not an end in itself. it is an instrument for the improvement of living and working conditions for everyone, and therefore weaknesses in the posting of workers directive which can be used to facilitate a race to the bottom must be removed as a matter of urgency. the socialist group has managed to construct an overwhelming majority of members in the committee on employment and social affairs in support of such reforms. the only groups standing aside from this consensus are the far right and the far left and they prefer to play party politics rather than seek to find a political solution to the problems. we in this parliament must deliver a clear demand to the commission and the member state governments that decent pay and working conditions cannot be sacrificed on the altar of the single market. europe can only be successfully competitive on the basis of high-quality services and goods, not on the basis of driving down standards of living. i welcome the commission’s indications today that it is now ready to re-examine the posting of workers directive, that it is in need of reform, but the question, commissioner, is when? when will you bring forward an initiative to this house clearly outlining what amendments you are proposing to the posting of workers directive? there is clearly a need to safeguard and to strengthen equal treatment and equal pay for equal work in the same workplace, as already laid down in article 39(12) of the european community treaty. the freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment, the nationality of the employer, of employees or of posted workers cannot serve as a justification for inequalities concerning working conditions, pay or the exercise of fundamental rights such as the workers’ right to take collective action.
madam president, in the recent debate on the lisbon treaty in ireland, the issues thrown up by the laval and viking cases were centre-stage in many of the debates and contributed to real uncertainty and unease. i have heard many of my colleagues here this morning re-echo these sentiments, and that is why i am pleased with the efforts of parliament here this morning. i am also reassured by the words of the commissioner when he says that the commission agrees with parliament that the posting of workers directive needs to be improved and properly transposed. the view of parliament is quite clear. in paragraph 33 it reaffirms that fundamental social rights are not subordinate to economic rights in a hierarchy of fundamental freedoms, and later in the report it emphasises that the freedom to provide services does not contradict and is not in any way superior to the fundamental right to strike. these statements are crystal clear and indicate where parliament stands, and we now look to the commission to take the baton and run with it. i started with lisbon and i will finish with it: ratification of the charter of fundamental rights and the inclusion of the social clause in the lisbon treaty would have improved the situation of workers across the eu.
madam president, as others have said, the laval judgment and others did cause some controversy during the lisbon treaty debate in ireland and were used and abused in that regard. this report deals primarily with the principles of the internal market, but it calls for equal treatment and equal pay for equal work, and that has to be our guiding principle here today. social dumping is something of huge concern, but could i just suggest that we will have a strange and unique situation in europe, where countries like ireland that had an inflow of workers may yet see that situation change? it is in all our interests that our workers, wherever they are in the european union, have good and equal rights. could i also suggest that europe has a much greater problem staring it in the face: the movement of entire businesses and companies outside the european union, obviously taking the work and the economics of their business outside our borders, while we simply import the results? that is an issue we have to tackle.
madam president, in march 2007 under the german presidency, and again in march 2008 under the slovenian, europe’s leaders committed themselves to achieving a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020, an already limited ambition. let us be under no illusion: in order to secure a post-2012 international agreement on climate change at copenhagen, we will have to make a clear and unambiguous statement through our legislation. the current international financial liquidity crisis and the economic backdrop has allowed many to grow cautious of setting long-term co2 targets or of committing industry to achieving the necessary greenhouse gas reductions and thus driving europe’s economy forward towards the low-carbon, sustainable economy which we so desperately need and which, i agree, will spark a third industrial revolution with exciting first-mover advantage for europe in the whole area of new technologies. however, the eu’s post-2012 targets should not be seen in the light of the current economic crisis. i believe our governments will be able to resolve that in the shorter term and we must deliver now so that future generations will not bear the brunt – including the economic brunt – of any delay in terms of the climate and energy package. we cannot pay the higher price in the future for our inability to act now or history will not be kind to us – or as president sarkozy said, we will miss our date with history. the european parliament has given me, as one of the rapporteurs on the climate package, a strong mandate to lead negotiations with council in the trialogue, and i take this responsibility seriously. we must maintain the targets and timetable and, as mr sarkozy said, major ambition with some compromise will be the order of the day. i look forward to a very close cooperation with both the commission and the council under the french presidency. i believe that together we can and will find an effective and workable agreement on the climate and energy package by this december... (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. – europe, including ireland, needs the lisbon treaty if we are to develop coherent and effective policies to tackle the global crises of financial system meltdown, climate change, and, under-development of much of the world. economic nationalism cannot solve these global challenges. neither will allowing the financial institutions or transnational corporations a free hand to do as they choose, while expecting the taxpayer to bail them out when crisis hits. we need a system of global governance which includes transnational regulation of the financial markets. indeed, including a capacity to tax such institutions in a way which prevents them from playing one country off another. a system of taxation of currency exchange is necessary to stabilise those markets and could also provide a valuable resource to fill the funding gap in the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdg). such a levy system is usually known as a 'tobin tax'. james tobin first proposed it following the usa's destruction of the bretton woods system. it would have a three- fold effect; 1, help stabilise the currency markets; 2, provide substantial funds to help implement the mdg; 3, reclaim part of the democratic space conceded until now to the financial markets.
in writing. − amendment 134 we would strongly oppose coercive abortion, forced sterilisation and infanticide, and concur that these are human rights abuses. we have abstained on the amendment, as eu funds have never been used in this way and the amendment fails to clarify the importance of the international development work of credible organisations in supporting women in fertility management, and specifically reproductive education, reproductive healthcare services and family planning, and campaigning for women’s right to healthcare. amendments 130, 131, 132, 133 while we are voting in favour of these amendments because of the importance of the issue, we feel it would be more appropriate to create a separate budget line on children’s rights, which would include the issues dealt with in these amendments.
i scríbhinn. − is gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide 90% de ghnóthais na héireann, agus is ionann an cás san aontas eorpach ar fad. i gcás na héireann, toisc gurb é an cás é a bhfuil an t-eolas is mó agam air, is gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide thart ar 250 000 gnóthas agus tá breis is 800 000 duine fostaithe iontu. is lú ná deichniúr a bhíonn fostaithe i bhformhór na ngnóthas seo (thart ar 90%) agus gan ach duine amháin i gceist i leath na gcásanna. dá thoradh sin, is acmhainn fhíorluachmhar dóibh an t-am, ach bíonn ar na gnóthais chéanna an-chuid ama a chaitheamh ar fhoirmeacha a líonadh amach. is é mo thuarascáil féin atá i gceist anseo – inar thángthas ar chomhréiteach trí chomhoibriú idir an chomhairle agus mo chomhghleacaithe sa choiste econ – mar sin ní hionadh go bhfuilim ag tacú léi. theastaigh uaim an míniú ar vóta seo a dhéanamh, áfach, chun tábhacht na tuarascála a threisiú. de thoradh fhorálacha na tuarascála, saorfar breis is 200 000 gnóthas beag agus meánmhéide ón dualgas foirmeacha maidir le trádáil earraí a líonadh amach, rud a shábhálfaidh am agus a bheidh chun leasa an ghnó agus na bhfiontar go ginearálta.
in writing. − ireland has opted out of the adoption and application of this regulation as we were not in favour of extending jurisdiction to irish courts to grant a divorce to an eu national based on a substantially different law of the state from where he/she came. if ireland were to implement this measure, this would allow eu nationals resident in ireland to obtain a divorce in our courts on substantially different and less onerous grounds than that provided for in our constitution as allowed by the referendum on divorce in 1995, i.e. 4 years separation of the parties. it would also mean that the present constitutional requirement on irish courts in divorce proceedings to allow divorce only where proper provision is made for the parties involved and for dependent children would not apply in such cases. while there are positive aspects to this report i have abstained because of ireland's opt-out.
in writing. − i did not vote on this report as ireland chose not to exercise its option to take part in the adoption and application of the proposed regulation and has not played an active role in negotiations at council level. ireland was not in favour of extending jurisdiction to irish courts to grant a divorce to an eu national based on a substantially different law of the state where he/she came from. this, if it had been implemented, would allow eu nationals resident in ireland to obtain a divorce in irish courts on substantially different and less onerous grounds than that provided for in our constitution as allowed by the referendum on divorce in 1995. given that ireland is not part of the process in adopting and applying this regulation, i chose not to vote on this report.
can i assure the minister that we all want to look after the citizens’ health and the environment, but does the council agree with the call for a european commission impact assessment on the effects of food production and food supply because of this legislation in each member state? the fact that the european commission has failed to do this to date is totally unacceptable. would the council agree that, without proper up-to-date information, we cannot be expected to make informed choices and decisions?
can i support the last two comments in relation to an impact assessment? i would have thought there is much to gain from both the commission and council point of view if you have evidence that helps you through an impact assessment. i know the irish blight is a long-told story, but it is a very significant problem and i think you need to address it, not just from a producer perspective but bearing in mind that this has implications for food prices, for availability, and also that we are going to import a product that is produced using chemicals that europe will ban. tell me that makes sense, because i do not see it.
a uachtaráin-in-oifig, táim buíoch as ucht an fhreagra chuimsithigh sin, ach ba mhaith liom a fhiafraí, an bhfuil aon tuairim ag an gcomhairle conas is féidir na hiarratais a thagann faoin scéim seo – faoin gclár forbartha seo – a láimhseáil níos éifeachtaí agus an bhfuil aon phlean ag an gcomhairle chun go mbeadh freagra orainn níos tapúla. conas a cheapann tú gur chóir é sin a dhéanamh?
could the council please confirm that under fp7 the whole application procedure was to be made much more user friendly, that this has in fact happened, and that it is also transparent so that businesses generally know how to draw down funding and how to respond to calls in relation to monies available under fp7?
with regard to the coordination of activities, obviously this is the most important aspect as we saw last year with the forest fires that spread from greece into italy and into parts of slovenia, or with the flooding of the danube at different times that did not just have an impact in austria but in other countries alongside. is there a proposal to set up a coordination unit that will be permanently operable at some central point to help coordinate these cross-border natural disasters that have an impact right across the union?
what transparency measures can the council put in place to ensure the maximum effectiveness, not just of trade deals, but also of aid to and for the developing world? considering that you hear one side from the commission about epas and then you hear a lot of criticism from ngos about epas, it is very difficult to find out who is correct on this and who is really benefiting from it. but certainly there is consistent criticism and lack of transparency in these epas. i would just ask you to comment on that.
in relation to the west african fisheries, could i put it to the presidency that these fisheries agreements, albeit bilateral, need far more monitoring and revisiting by the eu and the commission to ensure that severe poverty and debt in these third countries do not put unsustainable and irresistible pressure to sign up to these lucrative agreements which often, and generally, result in seriously unsustainable and irresponsible exploitation of the resources? i think there is a big question mark about what europe is doing here. could the presidency please comment?
president of the council. - look, i think all sources of danger must be examined by the commission in the context of its proposals. if it does appear - and i answer mr evans' last question here - that it is a source - and it may be - i agree. the behaviour of passengers in this context should also be considered. this allows me to answer mr ortega, because it is not on the lowest cost flights that we have this type of incident because sales are probably more limited. but, on the other hand, to answer mr ortega, i am not aware of any direct information between the 'low costs', if that is your question, and the number of accidents. what is true, however, is that there is a relationship between companies seeking to reduce costs, including in terms of maintenance, safety, aircraft life, and the number of accidents. and that is what we must fight for and ensure, through the existing committees and in particular the cesar, that there is better control of the operation of these companies, and in particular of the maintenance operations which may be - the investigation will say - in some cases, of which you have unfortunately been victims, the cause of these disasters. i think we really must pay particular attention to this phenomenon.
thank you, even if i am interrupting. all we would like are assurances – we are slightly off the point, trespassing on the generosity of the chair – would you please do something about access to strasbourg, so that we can fly into strasbourg airport and get to this place? strasbourg is a beautiful city but we cannot get here, and that is why we all complain about the sessions here.
president of the council. - i am happy to answer mrs doyle, whom i love very much and for whom i have great affection. and so i want to emphasize the fact that we are making a major effort to improve access to strasbourg and that we are subsidizing, yes, five airlines. the french state, if i may use this example, is spending more than 22 million to ensure the operation of these lines to strasbourg. we have also tried to facilitate access by rail between brussels and strasbourg, by providing the roissy bypass and a link between the thalys and the tgv. perhaps more needs to be done. we'll try to keep going. we are also considering how to continue to improve the service of what you have described - and i share your sentiment in this regard - as a magnificent city.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr evans, the council does indeed attach great importance - and this was emphasized again this morning - to the strengthening of controls at the external borders of the european union. we do not want to make europe a fortress but we must take account of the enlargement of schengen and the fact that schengen must function in a fully efficient way and it is our common responsibility to fight crossborder crime and to make sure that what is illegal is totally discouraged. the council has therefore made sure that there is a better use of new technologies in the management of the external borders, there has been a commission communication entitled 'preparing for the next developments in border management in the european union' which we welcome and which is a very good proposal. it is also essential that the facilitation of checks at border posts - i assure mr evans - does not call into question the integrity and security of the schengen area. the automated verification of travellers' identity should not lead to a reduction in border security. guarantees, as you know, are provided for in regulation no 2252/04; this text lays down precise standards for biometric elements to be included in passports and travel documents issued by member states. these provisions make passports more secure and effectively combat the falsification of documents by establishing a more reliable link between the document and its true holder. the safeguards of this regulation must be strengthened and we must continue this effort, which is the whole meaning of the pact on immigration and asylum which was described at length by president sarkozy in the plenary session this morning. what is important is that we can have the legal framework to act; what is also important about the pact is that we now have a common political will, mr evans, to ensure both the necessary security within the framework of an enlarged area of freedom.
president of the council. - that's an easy one. thank you, mr. evans, for that question. no, i believe very seriously that if there is a gap in identity checks, which i need to check, we need to actually make sure of identity. that seems very clear to me. there can be no substitution of passports. so i take note of the observation you made. we will check what you are saying and you can be sure that, in the context of the council's provisions and the work on the implementation of the pact on immigration and asylum, we will re-examine whether it is appropriate to strengthen this point in the context of the schengen area. it has to be done.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mrs harkin, as she knows, there are discussions being held by the european commission within the committee on monetary and financial statistics on balance of payments, i.e. eurostat, i suppose. following these discussions, the committee considered that further research at the academic level should be carried out to define harmonised criteria for identifying non-profit institutions, which would allow reliable comparisons in time and space between these institutions. so there's this statistical question that's important because, yes, volunteer structures are very heterogeneous and we need to know better about these structures. but what is important, and i want to assure the honourable member, is that we in the council are extremely committed to the development of volunteering. it is a matter for citizens to take ownership of the european ambition, especially for the youngest. and we have seen recently, through the latest studies that have been conducted, that they were not spontaneously the most europhile despite the facilities that were given to them. the council's education, youth and culture committee should adopt a recommendation in november on the mobility of young volunteers in europe in order to ensure that voluntary and volunteer activities are encouraged at european level and thus give a more concrete image of europe, especially in relation to our youngest citizens.
first of all, i thank the presidency for its reply and, indeed, commend the french presidency for its initiative on mobility. however, your response quotes a letter here from the european commission which is nothing more than a red herring, because it says that the emphasis was put on the diversity of legal status and the lack of harmonised criteria for identifying non-profit activities in the different countries. minister, you are very well aware that 32 countries already produce these npis including, i am delighted to say, france, and the czech republic, who will be holding the presidency of the council from january. so i believe that the commission is, as i said, introducing red herrings and dragging its heels on this, and, given that france is itself producing these accounts, i would be very pleased to hear that you would at least recommend to eurostat that they recommend to all eu countries that they produce these accounts.
i thank the presidency for their answer, but notwithstanding the awaited report by the high-level group, if the role of the world trade organisation means anything, should it not include – at the very least – a unified process for safety assessment and authorisation of gm products traded at global level? because surely we are not saying that the united states, australian and japanese consumers are put at greater risk by their gm safety assessment procedures and authorisations, which are extremely efficient? finally, would the presidency not agree that anything other than peer-reviewed, science-based safety assessment and authorisation procedures for gmos would lack integrity and bring our legislation in this house into disrepute?
i think your merging of the two questions left me short, if you may, because my question is very specific. first of all i am not sure that there was full cooperation with this high-level group, but i would like to know what progress, if any, has been made, and when they will report, because it seems to me that europe is more about activity on gm than on action, and what we need is action, because we have a situation where a very large country like the us, and others, are very happy about the way they assess gm, and europe wants different criteria. i hear from your answer that you are looking for much more ‘strict’ – whatever that might mean – and therefore leave us with the same problem.
a uachtaráin-in-oifig, tá a fhios ag an gcomhairle go bhfuil an ndc (an chomhdháil dhaonlathach náisiúnta) ag lorg toghcháin nua agus bhí pleananna ann cainteanna sa tsuasalainn faoi chumhachtroinnt a eagrú ach tá siad seo curtha ar gcúl ar feadh seachtaine. cuireadh ar gcúl iad mar diúltaíodh pas a thabhairt do cheannaire an fhreasúra morgan tsvangirai. an dóigh leat, a aire, go bhfuil sé seo ceart nó cabhrach? agus an bhfuil tú dóchasach anois go bhfuil seans ann socrú fadtéarmach seasmhach a chur ar bun?
i am just wondering if there has been any engagement directly by the european union with the stakeholders involved in the political process in zimbabwe. even if it does resolve its political issues in the morning, it will require a huge level of support, both economically and also in relation to building up new trade relations. i am just wondering if there has been any engagement with stakeholders by the european union.
mr president, thank you for your forbearance. after much debate over its first report, the commission submitted a revised proposal last january, the aim of which is to contribute to making the eu a highly energy-efficient and low-greenhouse-gas-emitting economy through the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles. this policy is in line with several other proposals, including those under the climate and energy package. in my view, the directive would accelerate the take-up of cleaner and more efficient vehicles, while creating a market dynamic in favour of such vehicles. the council has amended the draft proposal and redefined the scope to ensure coherence with the public procurement directives. it has, furthermore, introduced more flexibility as regards options. the draft directive now applies to the purchase of vehicles by contracting authorities and various parties and operators, for the purposes of the public procurement directives, and by operators of public passenger transport services under the public service obligation (pso) regulation. it requires the authorities concerned either to include requirements relating to energy consumption, co2 emissions and emissions of other pollutants in the tender specification, or include such impact in the criteria for award of the contract. i support the general approach, which gives a choice of options for taking into account lifetime costs and also allows flexibility as to the weighting given to the lifetime costs in award criteria. furthermore, the directive will sit well with the sustainability agenda, which would demand that the cleanest of vehicles possible always be required. might i suggest that this directive might be an important addition to the non-trading agenda of member states to reduce co2 emissions in our general thrust in the climate and energy package? the directive will apply to all vehicles purchased by government departments, local authorities and state bodies, with of course the exception of emergency vehicles, rescue and military vehicles. i have been assured that many of these bodies already factor lifecycle costs – including fuel costs – into the criteria for procurement. it is estimated that the effective cost, including emissions, would be small in overall cost terms. i am not a fan of red tape, and this proposal has no new administrative hurdles, to quote commissioner tajani himself. but action is needed at every level if we are to transform our economies into the low-carbon economies we so desperately need. for these reasons, i support the proposal.
in writing. – i welcome the recommendations in the compromise package. it is right to challenge local authorities and public bodies to lead in sustainable, clean transport. public procurement should be based on sustainability. in our cities in particular, choosing efficient, green transport options will benefit citizens’ health, our environment and our climate commitments and can act as a market catalyst for clean transport options. these long-term benefits should be considered by those in charge of public procurement. we know transport is one of the areas where co2 emissions must be reduced, and it is my hope that the revision of this directive can be signed off as soon as possible so that it can be implemented by 2010 as a support for environmentally conscious local authorities and public bodies. i scríbhinn) – measaim go bhfuil an coiste ceart dúshlán a thabhairt d’údaráis áitiúla. is maith is eol dúinn go bhfuil an t-iompar ar cheann de na réimsí ina gcaithfidh 'astuithe co2 a laghdú. tabharfaidh an treoir seo tacaíocht d’údaráis áitiúla agus do chomhlachtaí poiblí ar mór acu cúrsaí timpeallachta. ba chóir go mbeadh soláthar poiblí bunaithe ar inmharthanacht agus ba chóirní hamháin an praghas ach gach costas a mheá a chur san áireamh sna ríomhaireachtaí amhail an tsláinte, an timpeallacht agus astuithe carbóin.
mr president, i shall be very brief. there are just two points i want to make. i do not think that we should close all the doors on this matter. for instance, in a trial run at london heathrow airport over a period of four years, 98% of passengers opted for a body scan instead of the normal physical search. clearly this represents a vote of confidence in the technology. it also increases security. i know other people disagreed with this tonight, but it increases security as it can detect ceramic and plastic weaponry which are undetectable to standard metal detectors. the second point i want to raise is in relation to people who have metal implants in their bodies as a result of injuries or disabilities. they suffer constant humiliation, always being singled out for additional searches at airports. i propose a system for endorsing users’ passports so that they are not subject to this humiliation on a regular basis. i ask that the commissions look at this problem, because it is a huge problem at the present time for people who have suffered a physical injury and have an implant. i ask that that be looked at.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, there are many things people want to know about medicines before they take them or give them to their animals: that they are safe and effective, and come from ethical sources, and how they will interact with other medicines. this should be the focus of our authorisation process. in terms of business, companies want to know that their investment is safe. simplification will not mean being lax, but sticking to the essentials. while i am on the topic of authorisation, i would like to alert the commission to the fact that hexafluorosilicic acid is put in irish drinking water and yet it has no authorisation at all; nor has there been any attempt by successive irish governments to obtain any authorisation at all, and yet it is the most widespread medicine in ireland. if we are going to be serious about authorisation and correcting the authorisation process to make it more effective and safer, we must tackle this flagrant abuse of the process.
mr president, i rise under rule 166, on a point of order, to draw the attention of the president to a failure to respect parliament’s rules of procedure, specifically in relation to question time yesterday. i think this has become a moveable feast, as has voting time in this parliament. questions are put in an order to suit the commission and the council, not members;then questions are amalgamated, and supplementary questions are taken together. yesterday only 12 questions were reached. for those of us who have few opportunities to speak, this makes participating in plenary almost impossible. we elect a president, vice-presidents and group leaders to look after the interests of parliament and members. this is not happening. i would ask that it be revisited and that the role of members in plenary – who stand in place of the public – be defended and not sacrificed to every whim of anybody else who wants to come into this chamber. the rights of members must be defended by the chair, not abrogated by the chair at every hand’s turn. i protest very strongly that that is what is happening in this plenary. (applause)
mr president, were we not required to vote on paragraph 6? i will be advised by you.
mr president, i want to mention amendment 3, where we criticised a number of commissioners for having downplayed long-standing requests by the european parliament to propose legislation for better supervision of the financial market. this is the reality of the situation, but i think it is important also to state that member states must take their share of the blame. even if the commission had tried to move i think it would have met with a great deal of resistance. still, the commission has a responsibility, and while we have principles-based regulation as opposed to rules-based, it still needs to be rigorous, and light-touch regulation has not worked. i also want to mention paragraph 20, where parliament reiterates its respect for the result of the irish referendumand for the results of the ratification procedures in the other member states. during the debate on the irish referendum, it was claimed time and time again that parliament would not respect the result. apart from anything else parliament has no competence here, and no power to act one way or the other. still, i welcome the statement, unlike my colleague mr allister. finally in paragraph 20 i think it is possible to meet the concerns of the irish people before the european election, but we should not underestimate what is needed here. it also states that parliament stands ready to offer assistance to forge a broader, more informed consensus. i believe this really should be worded‘to forge a better-informed consensus’.
mr president, let me begin by saying that it is correct to say that the lisbon treaty cannot enter into force until all 27 member states approve it, but that does not mean that europe cannot move ahead, and i, for one, do not want to see europe moving ahead without ireland. as the director of elections for fine gael in the recent referendum campaign, i want to make it absolutely clear that the irish position is, and should be, that we want to be at the centre of europe. we no longer want to be an island behind an island, dominated by british interests. we respect britain for having its interests – it is entitled to have them. our interests lie elsewhere and i do not want any british member of parliament standing up here and speaking for my constituents or for irish interests. i wish to say that the fine gael meps in the ppe-de group support the general thrust of the report on the european council meeting, but do not accept that parliament should consider ‘that it is possible to meet the concerns that have been expressed by the irish people in order to secure a solution acceptable to all before the european elections’, as this is a matter for the irish people to consider, at their discretion and timing. that is the point we need to put on the record.
mr president, the first part of amendment 24 acknowledges that social dumping was a contributory factor in the irish ‘no’ to lisbon. i agree with that and also with the phrase that asks the council to take action to ensure equal pay for equal work. the amendment calls for all member states to respect the result of the referendum in ireland. that goes without saying, apart from which this is a legal imperative on all member states anyway. however, juxtaposed with all of that is a demand that we must embark on a profound revision of the existing treaties in order to open the road towards a social europe. talk about using a sledgehammer to crack a nut! a ‘profound revision of the existing treaties’ sounds like tearing up the rule book to me. we already have very positive legislation on anti-discrimination and we are currently improving that legislation. we have reached a common position on the temporary agency workers directive. this will underpin the rights of workers and shows that the social heart of europe is still beating. amendment 16 calls on member states to challenge the judgments of the european court of justice. that is not the way to do business. we do need to examine the posting of workers directive and ensure its correct transposition in all member states and, if it needs to be changed, then we must do so, but a profound revision of the treaties is not necessary.
mr president, on the vote i would like to say that the fine gaelmembers, of whom i am one, voted in favour of the andersson report because it addresses the important issues raised in thecourt of justice judgments in the viking, laval and rüffertcases,enshrining the fundamental principle of equal treatment and equal pay for equal work. the report is very clear in stating that the legislation is not sufficient and we need to provide better balance between the rights of workers and the freedom to provide services, but the answer is not a profound revision of existing eu treaties, as was called for in amendment 24. the answer is to improve the legislation, which is why we voted against amendment 24 and amendment 16, which was both unhelpful and unnecessary because it does not deal with the legislative imperative.
in writing. −we wish to say that the fine gael meps in the ppe-de group support the general thrust of the report on the european council meeting, but do not accept that parliament should consider ‘that it is possible to meet the concerns that have been expressed by the irish people in order to secure a solution acceptable to all before the european elections’, as this is a matter for the irish people at their discretion and timingto consider.
in writing. −i and all my colleagues inthe irish political party to which we belong, fine gael, voted for and want, as soon as possible, a clear, unambiguous ratification of the lisbon treaty by the irish government. however, we treat the irish electorate as lemmings at our peril. clear blue political water is needed between the outcome of the vote of 12june and any decision on a second attempt at ratification. we will get to that point quicker, with an increased chance of success, without any perceived diktats from colleagues on the timing of our ratification process, viz. ‘before the european election’, as in paragraph 20, against which i voted today.
in writing. − i warmly welcome today's european parliament vote to approve the temporary agency workers directive which enacts the principle of equal pay for equal work thus protecting the pay and conditions of both agency and full time permanent workers. the irish and uk governments have for many years stymied progress on european wide protection for temporary agency workers who have suffered discrimination in their working conditions and their right to belong to a trade union. today's european parliament vote for the final stage of a new directive is a major battle won in the fight against the race to the bottom. agencies have been allowed to undercut the pay and conditions of full time permanent workers for far too long, to the detriment of all workers. in order to expedite enactment of the legislation, this report adopts the common position of the council without amendments. indeed, the council had returned the proposed directive to parliament for second reading having adopted parliament's first reading amendments. tabling amendments at this stage of the process is simply the irresponsible mischief making of those who rather play party politics than win improved working and living conditions for our citizens.
in writing. − this directive proposes new measures to promote carbon conscious driving. with a commitment to reducing18%of emissions in greenhouse gases, ireland faces an enormous challenge. with regard to transport, we need to focus on this sector for reduction and to raise awareness amongst the public. this eu proposal sets out to develop a new methodology aimed at calculating costs of energy consumption and emissions of vehicles which will encourage people to purchase energy-efficient cars. such methodology concerns all road transport except emergency, rescue and military vehicles. we support the introduction of an integrated approach involving vehicle manufacturers, fuel suppliers, repairers, customers, drivers as well as authorities. the initiative to stimulate the market for more energy-efficient cars at competitive prices will provide irish citizens with a means of cutting down on emissions as well as economic benefits. this is beneficial at all levels: private costs in addition to national costs. less fuel consumption means less import of fuel required. it will encourage the development of energy-efficient vehicle technology globally, and this is an extremely positive step.
i scríbhinn. −agus muid i lár ghéarchéim na margaí airgeadais tá sé easca againne, an lucht déanta beartais, díriú go hiomlán ar an bhfadhb reatha agus dearmad nó neamhaird a dhéanamh ar aidhmeanna agus ar thionscnaimh eile an aontais eorpaigh. chuige sin, fearaim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo, a chuireann béim ar an ngéarghá atá le dul chun chinn a dhéanamh ó thaobh feithiclí glana agus éifeachtacha de. an rud is tábhachtaí sa tuarascáil seo, dar liomsa, ná nach é amháin go ndíríonn sé ar na feithiclí iad féin agus ar iompar an tomhaltóra, ach díríonn sé freisin ar thacaíocht agus spreagadh a thabhairt don earnáil phoiblí. is cóir gurb í an earnáil phoiblí a thabharfadh sampla do mhuintir na heorpa maidir le feithiclí glana a chur chun chinn. molaim go mór go bhfuil an rapóirtéir ag iarraidh nasc a chruthú idir tógáil iseilbh poiblí agus cothú agus cur chun cinn feithiclí glana éifeachtacha, agus bheinn ag súil, dá thoradh seo, go dtiocfadh fás agus borradh ar infheistiú agus ar thaighde i bhfeithiclí a bhfuil astuithe co2 íseal acu.
in writing. −this directive deals with regulations on marketing authorisations for medicinal products. we welcome the eu’s initiative to simplify and harmonise the current regulations. this is a time- and money-saving matter which will satisfy both the manufacturers and consumers in ireland. the proposed revisions will be beneficial for the irish pharmaceutical market which has a substantial presence in europe. we are grateful that in this sector, 13 of the top 15 companies in the world currently operate in ireland. there are currently over 140 med-tech companies in ireland, which accommodate 26000 jobs. moreover, the annual export of medical devices amounts to approx eur 6.2 billion, which is 10% of ireland’s total exports. we support the creation of single criteria for evaluation, approval and administration of pharmaceutical products that undergo changes such as manufacturing methods, product labelling or patient information brochures. we also recognise the need for further harmonisation of member states’ national provisions and european regulations to reduce administrative burden and to simplify the system regulating changes, such as allowing a single application for one or more identical changes. we agree to the revision of the commission’s control over ‘listings of substances’, ‘withdrawal periods’ and ‘principles and guidelines’.
in writing. −at the core of this report is the crucial issue of consumer protection. there is obviously a demand for timeshare and similar products and we cannot hinder responsible companies from responding to this demand. i don't think anyone is by any means suggesting that all companies operating in this field are involved in bad practice or exploitation. we are nonetheless aware that there are companies that have unscrupulously taken advantage of european consumers and that european consumers have suffered in dealing with badly-managed companies let off the hook as a result of inadequate regulation in this area. a number of irish holidaymakers have suffered considerable financial and legal difficulties following agreements entered into with a badly managed timeshare company in continental europe. the new directive includes some vital consumer protection safeguards, relating to areas such as advertising and contracts. i particularly welcome the provision on right of withdrawal, or the cooling-off period, which allows consumers – carried away by a sharp advertising pitch or while on holidays – time for sober reflection, so that they can be sure that they are happy with the medium- and long-term consequences of a timeshare agreement.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions.− madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their diligent and very efficient work in what is a difficult task, and speak specifically on the issue of the ombudsman’s office, where there will be an increase of almost 6% in the budget. this,we believe, is appropriate, recognising that half of this may not be required if there is no actual change in the office after the elections in 2009. i think we should also recognise that there has been some work within the office of the ombudsman to reorganise staff and resources in a more efficient way. while i am on my feet, as a member of the committee on agriculturei should just like to say that the issue of food aid – and i say this also to the public who are gathered here – is something which touches people really deeply. i think that the public would like us to help in a generous way with food aid. i can understand that there are budgetary concerns, rightly so, about the rules. perhaps this says something about the work we do in the background, before we pronounce, so that we do this in a good way and send out the proper message to the public that we are supporting the developing world and the hungry and the needy. but it is also worth pointing out that our development aid in the past did focus on agriculture and food production, as other speakers have mentioned, and, tragically, in latter years we have drawn away from looking at the importance of production agriculture in the developing world. perhaps we are missing that point here too in the european union. so if this food crisis has done one thing, it has alerted us to the fragility of food production and the need to nurture it within the developing world. finally, on this particular point, a colleague of mine,esther de lange, and i are supporting a pilot project to link up young farmers in europe and the developing world. i think out of this we might see some good results because they need help and we need to understand their plight.
a uachtaráin, is é an rud is tábhachtaí faoin mbuiséad seo ná an chabhair agus an tacaíocht a thugann sé d'eacnamaíocht na heorpa trí chéile agus an eacnamaíocht sin a fhorbairt agus a láidriú mar tá sin ag teastáil go géar, go háirithe, i láthair na huaire. sin é an fáth go gcuirim fáilte roimh an tacaíocht atá sa mbuiséad do chláir taighde agus forbairt na nuatheicneolaíochta, mar gan forbairt ar an teicneolaíocht sin, ní féidir linn a bheith ag súil go dtiocfaidh iomaíocht in ár n-eacnamaíocht. ba mhaith liom a fheiceáil freisin go mbeadh an tacaíocht sin le fáil i ngach uile cheantar san eoraip, ní hamháin sna ceantair láidre uirbeacha, ach freisin sna ceantair faoin tuath. chuige sin, chomh maith, go mbeadh an scrúdú sláinte atá déanta ar an bpolasaí talmhaíochta ag fáil tacaíochta láidre sna blianta amach romhainn chun ár mbia folláin áitiúil a choinneáil agus nach mbeadh muid ag brath ar bhia a bheith ag teachti bhfad ó bhaile.
could i ask the commissioner if he might, in these times when recession is snapping at our heels, look at the possibility of the social fund cooperating with local development partnership boards where these exist in member states like the republic of ireland, but in other member states as well? in that regard, he might have discussions with the oecd, which has carried out a study of the effectiveness of local development in promoting training, education, micro-job creation and an improved environment for people who find themselves unemployed. i do not expect the commissioner to be able to answer all of that today, but what i am really asking is that he would look at this possibility and perhaps consult with the oecd to see how the social fund and social partnership and local development partnerships might work handinhand to improve the community training and employment needs of our citizens, particularly in urban areas.
vice-president of the commission. − as i said, we have some cases running but so far we have notcompleted any criminal cases during the last six years. no european commission official has been convicted. we have some ongoing cases but these are all in national judiciaries. in addition, since 2002, the commission has lifted immunity. if an official is to be investigated, the commission makes the decision to lift immunity. we have lifted immunity – for criminal cases in courts – from 35 people, and so far half of them have been acquitted and the cases have been closed. some cases are still running and there have been no criminal convictions yet. this is the situation regarding criminal cases against commission officials. we are quite convinced that there will also be some convictions, but in some national judiciaries it takes a very long time. we are definitely cooperating with all these investigations.
vice-president of the commission.− most, maybe all, the cases are in the belgian courts, because the officials are located in belgium. therefore most of the cases are in belgium –and luxembourg as well.
member of the commission.− an impact assessment of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is currently being carried out. this assessment will cover a number of possible options for an eu-level reform of the corporate income tax system. in accordance with the current practice of the commission, a proposal of this nature has to be accompanied by an impact assessment drafted in compliance with the key analytical steps laid down in the impact assessment guidelines. the key analytical steps are to identify the problem, to define the objectives, to develop main policy options, to analyse their impacts, to compare the options and to outline policy monitoring and evaluation. the assessment will provide a description and evidence of the existing cross-border company tax obstacles on the internal market, and will define the objectives to be achieved by the reform. a number of alternative policy options, including the ccctb, that could address the obstacles will be analysed and their respective economic, environmental and social impacts assessed. as regards the most relevant types of impacts of the various policy options, the assessment will aim to assess: (a)the economy-wide effects of the alternative tax reforms on the competitiveness of the eu, on growth of the eu economy and welfare; (b) their respective effects on companies’ compliance costs; and (c), notably, their respective impacts on national corporate tax bases and on tax administration costs. significant progress has been achieved in preparing the impact assessment but the work is not yet completed. once the impact assessment is finalised, and the different options assessed, the commission will draw the necessary conclusions. the fact that the commission carries out an impact assessment does not necessarily mean that a proposal will follow.
to say that i am disappointed in the answer is to put it mildly: that is exactly what you told us last june. you told us that we would have this in september. i have to say that there are very strong rumours that you have received an interim report on ccctb. you have not officially accepted it, but i gather that thisreport is not favourable towards the idea of ccctb and the reason we cannot see it is because you have not formally accepted it. i would like to ask you ifthat is the case, because it is extremely unfair since this is an issue that has been debated for some considerable time now. there is a lot of very strong feeling on both sides on it, and i believe that you should show us that report, or interim report, so that we can have a look at it to see where exactly that report stands on this very,very important issue. i would strongly ask you to do that. i think it is wrong if you have received an interim report and you are not showing it to us because it does not show what the commission wants on this issue.
i want to echo the mr ryan’s comments. the specific question that was asked was: if the assessment proves unfavourable, will you shelve the plans for implementing ccctb? and that question was not answered. also, there have been a number of other assessments – not, obviously, carried out by the commission – which have shown that, in many ways, ccctb would collapse under its own weight. but, given that you have not answered the question that was asked, i want to put one or two others to you. would you not agree that it is not simplification? at present we have 27 tax bases. with ccctb we would end up with 28. if it were to operate, would you not agree that it would damage europe’s capacity to attract foreign direct investment, in that tax payable by multinationals in one country would no longer be determined by the law of that state but by reference to a complicated formula which can only be computed in retrospect? so, in other words, no policy certainty, and that will scare foreign direct investment like nothing else. i just want your view on that, please, commissioner.
as a member of the european parliament’s delegation for relations with the people’s republic of china, i have noted with interest your response. has there been any improvement at all in china’s appalling record on counterfeiting or the stealing of intellectual property since it joined the wto, and what pressures are being put on china to improve in this area? you mentioned the ec-china joint customs committee. who is on it from the ec side, and what are the qualifications to become a member? my final point: does this joint committee have terms of reference to handle trade of various waste products from europe to china for dumping?
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom níos mó a fháil amach. céard go díreach atá i gceist ag an gcoimisiún a dhéanamh chun cabhrú le haerfoirt atá buailte ag an gcostas seo. tá cúig aerfort i mo thoghcheantar in iarthar na héireann agus tá sé an-deacair acu maireachtáil go heacnamúil mar gheall ar an mbrú atá orthu: dhá aerfort idirnáisiúnta, an tsionainn agus aerfort iarthar na héireann agus trí aerfort réigiúnacha. céard is féidir leis an gcoimisiún a dhéanamh chun cabhrú leo seo maireachtáil agus a bheith eacnamúil?
could you elaborate further on the content of the appropriate regulatory framework which you indicated was in the pipeline, particularly in relation to economic sustainability of access transport to small island regions? can i get assurances from you, commissioner, that the present public service obligation regime will not be impacted in any way by this future regulatory framework that you have in mind? that is essential for the economic sustainability of these peripheral regions.
i was wondering if the commissioner is satisfied that enough action is being taken by member states in relation to implementing existing legislation and regulation. i had my own experience in acting in a legal capacity where a very serious accident occurred, and, even 12 months after the accident, the shipping company still had not complied with the regulations that were then in place and had been in place for over three years.
commissioner, i was struck by two words that you used:that finance is a ‘delicate’ issue; and you repeated ‘subsidiarity’, which is important. is the commission concerned that the economic difficulties in member states will impede the necessary investment in effective public transport systems? at the same time, member states might be imposing congestion charges in large cities on hard-pressed motorists who have no choice.
madam president, coming from ireland, a country that also suffered a tragic famine over 150 years ago, i understand the ukrainian desire to have the victims of their artificial famine from 1932 to 1933 commemorated. this resolution of parliament follows previous commemorative resolutions from other international organisations such as unesco and osce. our resolution on the commemoration of the victims of the holodomor in ukraine was adopted at the 34th session of the unesco general conference, which was supported by ireland among others. at the madrid osce ministerial meeting in november 2007, 30 countries associated themselves with ukraine’s statement commemorating the 75th anniversary of the holodomor. european integration must continue to be based on a readiness to come to terms with the 20th century’s tragic history. this present european parliament resolution makes an important call on countries originating from the soviet union to provide full access to archives on this tragedy for comprehensive scrutiny in order to unveil and fully investigate the causes and consequences of this famine. present-day relatives of the victims are seeking closure and should, therefore, have the right to access such information in order to come to an understanding of the greatest catastrophe in ukraine’s modern history. i add my voice to this expression of sympathy to the millions of ukrainians that suffered this calamity and, in particular, to the relatives of those who died as a result of this artificial famine.
thar ceann an ghrúpa pse. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús báire mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir, dushana zdravkova, as ucht na hoibre a rinne sí ar an tuarascáil seo. tá sé soiléir go bhfuil oifig an ombudsman ag dul i bhfeabhas. rinneamar gearáin leis le fada an lá go bhfuil an iomad fiosrúchán nach mbaineann leis ag teacht chuige. an bhliain seo caite, den chéad uair riamh, tháinig laghdú ar an líon sin agus déanaim comhghairdeas leis as ucht na hoibre sin. is réiteach cruthaitheach é an lámhleabhar idirghníomhach atá curtha i bhfeidhm ag an ombudsman chun cabhrú leis na saoránaigh an institiúid cheart a aimsiú i gcomhair a ngearán agus measaim gur féidir úsáid níos leithne a bhaint as. má táimid chun nochtú do dhaonra an chomhphobail go bhfuil an taontas seo ag obair ar a son, caithfimid a chinntiú go bhfaigheann siad freagraí agus réitigh ar a gcuid fadhbanna.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a very comprehensive report and also the ombudsman and his staff on the many positive steps that they took in 2007. what i find most encouraging is that the ombudsman works at so many different levels: it is not just about processing complaints,which is central to his work, but also about how resolutions or solutions are arrived at. there is an increasing number of friendly solutions, more informal procedures, where relations with the institutions are such that a growing number of cases are solved rapidly. that is real progress and must be built on. citizen-friendly solutions are where we want to go. i am also pleased to see that better communication at all levels is central to the agenda of the ombudsman. the adoption of the european network of ombudsmen statement and increased cooperation in this area are vital, and we look forward to the launch of the new website, which will include an interactive guide to assist citizens. however, this brings me to my final comment, which concerns citizens, and refers to the proposed oral amendment on paragraph 23. that paragraph reads: ‘proposes that the ombudsman take measures to reduce the number of complaints (a total of 1021) in relation to which no steps have been taken by him at all’. the oral amendment seeks to change that final phrase – ‘in relation to which no steps have been taken by him at all’ – to the statement ‘in such cases where no action is possible’. from the perspective of the ombudsman, no action is possible; but from the perspective of the citizen, no action is taken – and those are two very different perspectives. so i have a question: is it made clear to the 1021 citizens that no action is possible by the ombudsman,with a clear explanation given with further advice where possible, or is it the case that simply no action is taken? if the former is true and citizens are given reasons, i have no problem and, indeed, i am very pleased. but if the latter is true and no action is taken, then citizens will be frustrated and angry. so i would like clarification on that point, please.
madam president, rather than dealing with the history i will congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report and the ombudsman for his presentation today and his cooperation with us,and indeed the commission statement. could i ask, in particular, for consistency in how the commission deals with citizens? i am concerned that in some cases when an individual brings a case to the commission the needs and rights of the individual are overtaken by the involvement of the member state, almost like a victim in a court case being ignored by the prosecution. i shall give you an example. a constituent of mine complained about the irish planning laws as they apply in rural areas. the action of the commission in handling that case was exemplary in their dealings with the citizen in meeting and engaging. however, as the case moved on,i am afraid that declined – i believe, in favour of the member state to the absolute frustration of the citizen. i know this person and they were very pleased initially and are now very frustrated. in other words, the citizen who brings forward the information, who provides the impetus for action is forgotten about in the ongoing process. i think, commissioner, when you asked the question ‘who comes first?’, you said it was the eu citizens. i am not so sure.
madam president, i abstained on vote 134 of the draft general budget for 2009,as the intellectual dishonesty and cynicism of the movers of this amendment are preying on the genuine concerns and fears of many of our citizens by trying to imply that, at present – and in the past – eu development funds have been given to governments and organisations for programmes that include, i quote: ‘coercive abortion, forced sterilisation and infanticide’, all of which we would condemn outright. that should not even need to be said. so they justify the wording of this emotive amendment, the text of which is already being used with one eye on next june’s european election. the amendment is being portrayed as, i quote: ‘an attempt to exclude such projects from receiving eu funds in the 2009 eu budget’. as eu funds have never been used in such a way, but always according to the cairo icpd, and as there is no such proposal in this year’s budget to do so, the political mischief of the movers has to be acknowledged by all fair-minded and intellectually honest commentators.
madam president, we voted to support the thrust of mrs sinnott’s amendment 134, on preventing community assistance being given to any government, organisation or programme which supports or participates in the management of a programme involving human rights abuses such as coercive abortion, involuntary sterilisation or infanticide. however, we feel it important to question mrs sinnott’s justification for proposing such an amendment. in her press statement this week, she cited such countries as china and vietnam, where she claims that eu funding, channelled through the united nations population fund (unfpa), is presently being used for coercive abortions, involuntary sterilisation and infanticide. i spoke to the director of the unfpa office in brussels this morning, who said that the unfpa, the united nations population programme, does not support coercion or abortion. it follows the mandate of the 1994 international conference on population and development, which clearly states that reproductive health-care programmes should provide the widest range of services without any form of coercion. in addition, the global community has decided that abortion should never have been promoted as a method of family planning. china’s citizens have benefited from the presence of the unfpa and the initiatives that it has brought to the nation. in the parts of china – and other nations – where the unfpa works, women are given more options for their reproductive health decisions, and more information about reproductive health care is available to them, as is the freedom of access to it.
madampresident, this was a complex vote and a complex budget. i regret that amendment 133 did not succeed, as it would have given more focus to the needs of children with disabilities who are in institutional care. our concern was the deinstitutionalisation of those children. however, this issue has not gone away and we will continue to fight for their rights. i hope that the president of the commission responds to my letter in this regard.
in writing. −i voted against amendment 134 because to vote for or to abstain would be to lend credibility to false allegations by kathy sinnott to the effect that the eu funds coercive abortion, involuntary sterilization, and, infanticide.
in writing. −we would strongly oppose coercive abortion, forced sterilisation and infanticide, and concur that these are human rights abuses. we have abstained on the amendment as eu funds have never been used in this way and the amendment fails to clarify the importance of the international development work of credible organisations in supporting women in fertility management, specifically reproductive education, reproductive health-care services and family planning, and campaigning for women’s right to healthcare. while we are voting in favour of amendments 612, 131, 132 and 133 because of the importance of the issue, we feel it would be more appropriate to create a separate budget line on children’s rights, which would include the issues dealt with in these amendments.
i scríbhinn. −rinne an rapóirtéir agus an coiste iompair an-chuid oibre ar an tuarascáil seo, agus léiríonn an easpa leasaithe a cuireadh leis go bhfuil seasamh láidir agus aontaithe glactha ag parlaimint na heorpa ar an ábhar seo, agus go n-aithníonn na feisirí an gá atá ann leanúint leis an treoir ar chostais aerfort. táim sásta gur glacadh, tar éis an chéad léamh, leis an bhforáil i ndáil le méid na n-aerfort lena mbaineann an treoir a athrú ó 1 go 5 milliún paisinéirí sa bhliain. is rud maith é, chomh maith, gur cuireadh forálacha timpeallachta san áireamh sa chomhsheasamh. ba é mo thuairim é, áfach, go raibh eilimintí cinnte in easnamh ón gcomhsheasamh, ach sa dara léamh éiríonn leis an rapóirtéir é seo a réiteach, agus mar sin tugaim lántacaíocht dó.
mr president, when one thinks of democracy, one thinks of human rights. the importance of a voice and a vote at all levels of government is very understandable. for years this has not been the case in venezuela, a country rife with corruption and currently led by mr chávez. under his government, there is a history of intimidation of opposition members, cases of opposition party members being brutally murdered, and defenders of human rights and members of ngos having been forcibly removed. additionally, venezuela presently uses so-called screening lists not only to keep citizens from holding public office, but also depriving them from the right to vote freely for their preferred representatives. what we, as a democratic body, should be seeking from venezuela is compliance with international standards of democracy,allowing venezuelan citizens to take advantage of the fundamentals, the freedom to freely and openly criticise those in power and the ability to change the government via election without fear.
mr president, renewed combat in the eastern part of the congo is making a mockery of human rights and is silencing democracy. despite the signing of the goma peace accord in january of this year, the abuse of the most fundamental of human rights has continued: women of all ages being raped, massacres committed and child soldiers being gathered up. a situation of such fragility cannot be ignored. we must use our position as one of the strongest voices in the international community to call for peace, cooperation and stability in the region. we can also use this voice to condemn the recent statements of laurent nkunda, who called for the overthrow of the elected and legitimate government of the congo. the congolese army alone does not have the human, technical or financial resources to carry out its tasks in eastern congo. but a global statement, like the signing of the child soldier accountability act this month in america, reminds us all that help can be offered to such countries and authorities in bringing violators of human rights to justice.
author.− mr president, tomorrow marks the 13th anniversary of the unjust incarceration of aung san suu kyi, burma’s most revered political prisoner. this timely parliament resolution condemns her continued detention and insists upon her immediate release. aung san suu kyi’s latest five-year term of house arrest was extended in may for a further year. article 10b of the burmese stateprotection law 1975 stipulates that a person judged to be a threat to the sovereignty and security of the state and the peace of the people can only be detained for up to five years. therefore this prolonged detention is illegal. suu kyi has spent more than 13 years of the past 19 years confined to her rangoon home. i also deplore the fact that the number of political prisoners in burma has increased from 1300 to over 2100 since the saffron revolution of september 2007. the military junta has clearly failed to deliver on promises made to the international community in this regard. whereas the release of veteran journalist and national league for democracy (nld) secretary u win tin and six other leaders last month was a step in the right direction, further moves must be made to free burmese political dissidents. i call on the secretary-general of the united nations to press ahead with a secondvisit to burma in december irrespective of the prevailing conditions in order to make an urgent personal appeal for the release of all political prisoners and the full inclusion of the national league for democracy in preparations for the 2010 elections. finally, i call on leaders at the asem summit beginning tomorrow in china on the 13th anniversary of suu kyi’s detention to understand their responsibilities regarding ongoing oppression in one of their neighbouring countries and to take decisive action accordingly to condemn the burmese military junta for their continued suppression of political dissidents.
on behalf of the ind/dem group.– mr president, burma is a country which is steeped in corruption. with 2000 political prisoners under arrest, access to free media impeded by the authorities and widespread slavery in industry, the people of this country need serious help. however, in spite of more than 37 visits by un envoys in the past 20 years and six resolutions in this house, there has been not a single reform made by the military junta. i would agree with mr matsakis that it is not good enough to point to burma: we must point to burma’s supporters and main supporter, especially china, its most powerful economic and military ally. yet a smiling mr sarkozy represented the european council at this summer’s olympic games. did he press china’s top officials, who stood with him, about the burmese, about the sudanese, about the people of tibet and about china’s own persecuted people? i particularly also want to mention the misuse of aid funds that go into burma, because we still try to reach the ordinary people of burma and, yet, these goods are often given to favourites of the burmese government to resell at high value.
mr president, the ecall system in motor vehicles is a major advance in assisting emergency services to get to the scene of an accident as quickly as possible. the device identifies the exact location of the accident so that the medical, police and fire services are able to get to the scene as quickly as possible. this is particularly important in rural and isolated areas and particularly in the case of single car accidents. ecall is now standard equipment in all new cars in many eu countries. unfortunately, it is not available in my own country, ireland, where we still have an unacceptably high level of fatal accidents. i believe that the system should be mandatory in all member states. this is about saving lives, and this device certainly saves lives. that is the reason i am calling on the commission to insist that all member states insist that this device be available in all new motor vehicles.
mr president, one of the key elements of the eu white paper on sport is the elimination of racism, particularly at football matches. unfortunately racism has raised its ugly head at the scottish football league and we all very much regret that. some players who have declared to play for ireland have been subjected to racial abuse and also to the singing of the ‘famine song’, which is a huge insult, not only to the players, but to the irish people. i welcome the fact that the scottish fa, and also the former british home secretary john reid, are taking action on this. but racism cannot be tolerated no matter where it raises its ugly head, and i believe we all have to stand up and say that this is completely unacceptable and that it cannot happen no matter where it takes place.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs berès and mr langen for the work they have put into this very important report. it is an excellent report and one that should be taken notice of. when this topic was first reported at committee level, we were experiencing a very different economic climate. the subprime crisis in the united states of america had emerged, but i do not think anyone foresaw the repercussions and the extent of the effect it was going to have on financial markets right across the world. as the financial situation has worsened, the tone of our debates here in the committee on economic and monetary affairs has changed. the current crisis is a global one, and to get through it we need a coordinated global response, so i very much welcome the initiative that was taken at the weekend and the outcome of that. there is a lot of more work that needs to be done, but i think that is a very good start. for ireland, the stability brought about by the euro currency, notably as regards interest rates and foreign-exchange rates, is a key factor in enabling us to emerge from the turmoil, not unscathed, but certainly still standing. if there is still anyone in ireland or elsewhere in the euro zone or elsewhere in europe that doubts the benefit of euro membership, just look at the north-west of europe and take note of what is happening in iceland. if people in ireland had listened to those who opposed not just the lisbon treaty but also the maastricht and nice treaties, where would ireland be now? we would be outside. we would not be in the euro zone and we would be very badly affected economically because we would not have the stability which the euro has brought to the country. i do not expect an answer from those parties like sinn féin who have consistently opposed europe and the steps we have taken, but i really believe that it is time that they stood up and said what exactly they think and where they stand on the whole issue of europe and our economic future.
mr president, the berès-langen report is an excellent one because what it does is give us the history of the emu over the last 10 years and say how it should go forward in the future. the euro has been a resounding success: it is the second most important currency in the world; inflation in the first 10 years has broadly been in line with the ecb’s objective of 2%; furthermore, it has facilitated travel, trade and employment; and, most importantly of all, it signifies a further step in eu consolidation. the announcement last week that the euro zone is in recession now means that urgent action will have to be taken both within the eu and globally, but the one thing we cannot do is blame the euro for the current crisis. while the stability and growth pact rules are well-intentioned in setting down maximum borrowing guidelines for member states, they did not foresee – and nobody could have foreseen – the current global economic crisis. the current crisis in my opinion calls for flexibility because, unless the credit squeeze by the financial institutions is relaxed, there is every possibility that the crisis will get even worse and that more and more jobs will be lost. i have to say that i want to commend presidents barroso and sarkozy for the manner in which they represented the european union at the g20 talks in washington last week. i think they did us proud and i think they did europe proud. finally, we must examine how we got into the current crisis and what the causes were. we must learn the lessons and we must make sure that it never happens again. if this means reform – reform of the institutions, reform of the international monetary fund – let us do it. if it means examining the operations of the european central bank, let us do it. let us at this stage carry out a forensic analysis and, whatever the crisis that europe is now experiencing – we do not know how serious it is, where it is going to end up or what the consequences will be – let us examine it forensically and let us put solutions in place.
mr president, allow me to make my points in bullet points. homogenous markets are at the heart of the systemic failure that we have, and if really good operators like mr juncker and mr almunia cannot bring heterogeneity back to the markets, then we are only putting off failure to a future date. homogenous markets are at the centre of this problem. secondly, it was forecast in ireland that the euro as a currency would be something like a vehicle with no brakes, no steering wheel and no lights. how much they got that wrong! where would we be in ireland today if the euro and the european central bank were not in place? why are we not taking greater credit for this? this is one thing that could help us with the lisbon ratification process. lastly, concerning the argument about vaccination, parents have the right to decide, but if every parent decides not to vaccinate, then epidemics will rise. i would just say this: no man is an island. britain may well be an island, but it is time that britain revisited the question of joining the euro, because we cannot all go our separate ways.
mr president, i would like to thank you for this debate. i would like to raise one issue, and perhaps the commission could address this. we are speaking about equal pay for equal work, and we all want and desire that to happen. what is the commission’s view of the current job situation? i have a concern that, with so many jobs being lost in countries in the european union, this issue could get worse rather than better because of people’s desire to earn money, even if it is less than they are truly worth. i would like some comments from the commission on that. i would like to raise an issue of discrimination which certainly exists for men and women: public sector versus private sector workers where there are very different terms and conditions. they enjoy different pension rights and security issues and sometimes the inequalities are not just gender-based, although i appreciate that this report is about gender, and certainly my concern is that in the current situation this problem may get worse, rather than better.
mr president, i welcome the report on general arrangements for excise duty. i wish to highlight the progress made in the matter of purchasing duty. the original proposal, if implemented, would have restricted passengers to purchasing duty-free goods only in the final airport of departure before leaving the eu. in practical terms this would have meant that if a person went on a journey from cork in ireland to dubai via paris they would only be able to purchase duty-free goods in paris. this would have decimated the profitability of irish regional airports, as many currently rely on commercial activities for the bulk of their income. this would undoubtedly have led to job losses. however, this has now been addressed and accordingly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on working to address our concerns. this represents a welcome development at a time when the irish government has introduced a new airport tax which will discriminate against beleaguered smaller regional airports to the advantage of the already congested dublin airport. in that regard i call on the commission to investigate the legality of this measure under eu competition rules. i welcome the report from mrs lulling and the commission.
mr president, some of the best questions are raised late in the evening and this is one of them, although there is an element of ‘the dialogue of the deaf’ because we do not have the council here to hear this debate. there are two words which we talk about a great deal in europe: one is ‘subsidiarity’ and the other, ‘solidarity’. subsidiarity is about respecting the member states and their rights and solidarity, in my view, reflects the commonality of the european union and our support for each other. so, why does this fund not work to do that? indeed, one of the dangers and the damage as a result of its failure to work is that we make announcements about funding being available and then fail to deliver because the system is complex, bureaucratic and very unwieldy for communities and for individuals to work with. it is, i presume, about budget and about money, ultimately. i listened very carefully to the comments of the commissioner responsible for financial programming and budget last week about many things, from the common agricultural policy to other issues but, in particular, calling for a more flexible budget, a budget to react swiftly to world events rather than the european union running after events. i am sorry that she did not speak about the need for flexibility to react to events in the european union because i think that is what we are talking about here this evening. i come from a country which has said ‘no’ to the lisbon treaty, where we talk increasingly about trying to bring citizens closer to the european union, and the best way to do that is to see europe in action rather than in words. i am afraid that there are too many announcements about things in the european union and too little action on the ground where people see it working. on a positive note there was a survey this morning in the papers which suggests that the irish public are looking perhaps at changing their minds on lisbon. so i would hate you to leave the chamber despondent.
mr president, i am sure the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council would expect me to call for the implementation of the key recommendations of the sheep report, which was passed overwhelmingly here in this parliament. on modulation, i would be against the figure of 13% by 2012, and i believe that it should not be compulsory and that each member state should have the flexibility to decide. on milk quotas, i would like to see an increase of 2%, rather than the 1% proposed, and countries that have the capacity to produce milk should be allowed to do so, leading to a soft landing in 2015. but, most important of all, at the last cap reform we were promised simplification and, if there is something that drives farmers crazy, it is bureaucracy and red tape. there are now more officials representing the commission, member state departments of agriculture and local authorities policing farmers than there are police on the streets fighting crime. this is ridiculous: farmers should be allowed to get on and farm and produce the necessary food that is required for an ever-increasing population. let me say from a personal point of view that, in my country, there will be no lisbon ii unless this matter is addressed.
mr president, my thanks to the council, commission and rapporteur for all the hard work that has gone into this. the only thing ‘simple’ about the common agricultural policy, which has been ignored in this debate, is that the budget is fixed and declining, and yet the demands we are making on this policy are expanding, including climate change, biodiversity and water management. intelligent water management is a very good idea, and local authorities need to fix leaks. how intelligent is that! let me move on to milk. what is wrong with providing for a 2% increase in quota and trusting farmers who can produce for the market-place to do that? this is not compulsory. let the farmers decide. on sheep, the aylward report has raised huge expectations which we in this parliament support. they cannot be let down when the council comes to its final decisions. on modulation and article 68, we are talking about recycling funds from agriculture to these new challenges. it cannot be done and if it is done it can only be done with fewer rules, rather than more rules, which tends to be the case. the biggest threat to the cap and to european farmers is in the budget review, the legacy of tony blair to this institution, where financing of agriculture is under threat. in reply to the lisbon treaty comment from my colleague liam aylward, may i say that, yes, inspections did cause a problem. i would suggest that farmers in ireland will now be more supportive of the lisbon treaty because they fear that member states will have more control over agriculture policy and they know the dangers of that from our budget for 2009 when the irish government slashed support for agriculture: they trust europe more than their member state. we must remember that. the biggest problem for farmers across europe is income volatility and price volatility. we need market support measures. they have got to be more flexible and more intelligent and used when we need them, otherwise we abandon family farming and we will destroy what we have created in europe, which is a supply of good-quality, safe food. i wish you luck in your deliberations.
mr president, i strongly agree with minister barnier when he talks about food sovereignty and its importance, and with commissioner fischer boel when she talks about the importance of climate change on the agriculture agenda today. can we please marry these two concepts? it is expected that the growing worldwide demand for dairy products – which will be up to a 35% increase by 2020 – will lead to some intensification of irish dairy production, making it most likely that our suckler herd will be affected if a reduction in our cattle numbers has to be considered to meet eu climate change targets under the effort-sharing proposal. ireland’s food production system is accepted as one of the most efficient in the world in terms of emissions per unit of food produced. any shortfall of world food markets – if ireland cut its livestock numbers – would be most likely to be filled by countries with less sustainable farming systems and systems that generate far higher levels of emission, due to the less efficient nature of their herd management or the age profile of their herds and deforestation.
mr president, in this debate we must speak of food safety, food traceability and, above all, food security. we cannot decouple these issues from our discussions here today and we cannot ignore the fact that the number of farmers continues to decrease very significantly year on year. an increase in compulsory modulation is quite simply putting your hand into the pocket of europe’s farmers. the value of the single farm payment has fallen by approximately 15% since 2005 due to inflation and other issues and yet the proposal is to cut it further. simplification seems to be the buzzword. however, in ireland at least, the numbers involved in policing farmers have escalated. in recent weeks we had a number of helicopters, flanked by 61 ground inspectors, counting sheep in the hills of connemara, a small area where the price of sheep would not even repay the investment by farmers. to some, it more resembled the invasion of iraq rather than the benign hand of europe. this is wasteful and conveys an image of an over-bureaucratic europe, acting in a totally disproportionate manner.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work on the cap health check, as it is important to highlight the increased work of parliament in this process, and i would also like to welcome the attitude of the council and the commission in these negotiations. i believe that it augurs well for future negotiations when parliament will enjoy full codecision with the council on agricultural matters. coming from an agricultural area in ireland, it is sad to see that in recent times farmers have turned against the eu project for various reasons, one of which is the perceived lack of transparency of negotiations in the council. however, if and when the lisbon treaty is adopted, parliament will be centrally involved and thus there will be a bigger role for open, transparent debate on cap-related issues, leading to greater legitimacy amongst the farming community. the way forward in europe is for parliament to be fully involved in the decision-making process, and that will only be finally achieved by having codecision.
mr president, sometimes it is great to be able to come into this chamber and support a really positive european proposal and, despite mr titford’s attempt to deflate our good humour, today is such a day. this proposal ticks so many boxes. it promotes healthy eating habits among young children and adolescents. it enhances the overall health of young europeans. it ensures that eu money is spent on a project that is already being shown to deliver positive results in many member states, and it is a practical, down-to-earth, workable proposal. i am very familiar with a similar programme in ireland called ‘food dudes’ – because my grandson has kept me up to date. it has been shown that this programme is effective, with long-standing results across the age range 4-12 and these results stand up regardless of gender, school size and socioeconomic factors. therefore, we are building on firm foundations. i am happy to support increased community funding and to give particular consideration to organic and locally produced fruit and vegetables. i want to congratulate the commissioner and our rapporteur mr niels busk, and i am very pleased to hear the response from the council. this proposal will contribute positively to quality of life and health in the eu.
mr president, we have come a long way from the time when we were trying to keep schoolchildren out of orchards as they stole apples to the position today, where they have no interest in either apples or orchards. so this fruit scheme is welcome. the problem is that many parents are not aware of the importance of fruit and vegetables, so it will educate children and parents about the health benefits of fruit and vegetable consumption. of course the key to the success of the scheme will be back in the member states. we do not want a complicated, rule-based scheme. we want flexibility and we need to engage with teachers, in particular, who will deliver the fruit and vegetables, and with parents, so that they will ensure that children eat and enjoy fruit and veg and develop healthy eating habits throughout their life.
in writing. − although i believe parents are ultimately responsible for the health of their children, and that any school fruit scheme must be flexible enough to accommodate local, regional and national conditions, i welcome this report. there is an obesity epidemic among children and it is estimated that there are 22 million overweight children in the eu, 5.1 million of whom are considered to be severely overweight. children in the eu are not eating enough healthy food and healthier options need to be made available. i hope this proposal can go some small way towards alleviating childhood obesity.
in writing. − the principle of equal pay for equal work helps to remove discrimination against women in the workplace. but we must go further in protecting women’s rights. the aim of this report is not only to enhance the value of women’s work but improve the quality of public services also. more than 30 years after the introduction of equal pay legislation, women in the eu earn 15% less than men and progress has been slow in closing the gender pay gap with men. twenty years ago, the gender pay gap in ireland was about 25% and now the gap is 13%. even with this progress, the gender pay gap remains a serious cause of concern. new challenges arise, particularly in this economic climate, which need to be identified and solved. many women continue to be concentrated in a narrow range of occupations, in part-time and low-paid work, and in jobs where their skills and contributions are undervalued. we need a multifaceted approach. we need to increase the labour market participation by women. we need to improve child care services and child benefits to help reintegrate women with children back into the work place.
in writing. − i supported this report as we need proper enforcement of existing laws on the principle of equal pay. however, while the enforcement of existing laws on the principle of equal pay for the same work and for work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality, the restoration of choices to all women is also very important. there needs to be flexibility in the system and a proper work/life balance. women must be given: the choice to marry or not; the choice to have children or not, to have a career, to have further education or not, to stay at home, to go out into the workplace, to start a business or to have access to property. the challenge is to ensure that economic pressures do not remove these choices.
in writing. − i supported this report, as it is in line with the amendment i tabled on the financing of large scale ccs (carbon capture and storage) demonstration plants, in my report on the review of the eu’s emissions trading system. our dependence on fossil fuels is likely to persist for some time and we should be exploring all options in order to mitigate their harmful effects. ccs extracts and buries the carbon from any hydrocarbon source rather than allowing emissions to enter the atmosphere. if implemented without delay and given proper financing ccs could reduce co2 emissions in the eu significantly.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, a uachtarán an choimisiúin agus a uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle, creidim go láidir gur ghlac an coimisiún eorpach seasamh láidir trí ghníomhú go díreach agus go láidir chun déileáil le géarchéim na margaí airgeadais idirnáisiúnta. is í an bhunlíne ná gur gá don aontas eorpach, na stáit aontaithe, an india agus an tsín oibriú le chéile chun a chinntiú go bhfuil rialacha agus caighdeáin choiteanna ann le seirbhísí airgeadais idirnáisiúnta a rialú amach anseo. it is inevitable that, in every crisis or every point of danger, people say that it will never be the same again. yet, if we study history – not just economics – it does all go in cycles. it does all come around. even the simplest of fishermen would be able to tell you that the tide comes in and the tide goes out. that is in no way to excuse the problems that we now find ourselves in or to excuse those who have precipitated this crisis by reckless lending, dubious practices and, most particularly of all, when everything goes wrong, by running to the father and mother countries and saying ‘bail us out’. the biggest danger there is today – in business, economics, employment and in social life across europe – is not just the financial crisis, but the fact that banks will not lend money for working capital to small and medium-sized enterprises to allow them to grow and to take opportunities. there is no point in making solar panels if you do not have the people to put them on the roof. if you do not have people to put them on the roof – who can pay for them and buy them – you will not have people who will make them. the reality that we are looking at here today is that the crisis we now face in the current economic turmoil presents us with an opportunity to correct the wrongs of the past and to ensure that we now invest in research and innovation and use that money to find new ways of dealing with problems and finding solutions to the problems that people face in their lives, as well as ensuring that we give hope to people. sometimes people forget that what people really need is encouragement, an idea to go forward and a slap on the back saying that they do a good job, because there is a desire for hope. the g20 and the actions of the commission and in the presidency in bringing forward this g20 meeting – albeit with a lame duck presidency in the united states –is forcing india and china to come to the table and to say that they now have responsibilities as emerging economies. china and india have a role to play with regard to what must be done. my last point is that i would hate people to think that this crisis means that we must put the hindrance of the block on the innovation and creativity of the peoples of europe. if we want to feed our people, give them equal rights and certainty and lift them out of the trap of poverty, our first responsibility is to ensure that they have money through jobs, that the countries have money to invest in social services and health services and, most importantly of all, that we give them the tools and the skills of education and training to be able to benefit from those new challenges that come before us.
madam president, i should like to say to the commissioner that now and in her coming work programme she will be dealing with the financial crisis. this crisis has hit different countries around europe in different ways, but one thing is certain: the financial institutions in all countries have, to some degree or other, bought toxic us mortgage debt based on subprime lending. do you know to what extent europeans have bought devices such as cdos, which had been represented to them as having a certain rating by the american rating companies, but which, in fact, on subsequent examination after they blew up, proved to be toxic bonds? they were found to be dodgy projects. it seems to me that there must have been wholesale misrepresentation of the quality of the debt by these agencies for such a huge amount of it to have been sold so easily. i would like to know if the facts about the claims made when selling these devices have been examined yet by the commission, and, if so, to what extent is it thought they have been misrepresented? if this is the case, i would also like to know if the commission thinks that there is any recourse in law against the rating agencies for those who have suffered from their negligence or worse, since at this stage our whole financial structure has been attacked by them.
madam president, a number of speakers here – including my colleague, brian crowley, from ireland – have blamed the bankers for acting like bankers, maximising short-term profits to the limits of the law. this crisis was allowed to develop because governments everywhere abandoned their responsibility to sufficiently govern the economy, including banks. most of those in power have ignored history and accepted the ideological mumbo-jumbo which we have just heard now from the last three speakers that the market is a self-balancing natural phenomenon and government has no role in interfering with it. the fact is that adam smith’s invisible hand is a pickpocket. the pockets that are being picked are the pockets of working people who are losing their jobs, families who are losing their homes, and those who are poor already and who are losing their savings and pensions. it is not bankers and right-wing politicians who are losing. this will happen again unless we clearly define a new economic framework which enables us to ensure that banks and industries serve society and enable governments to govern in the public interest.
madam president, we talk sometimes about grand designs and great plans and ambition. i was touched recently by the words of the canadian finance minister who spoke about being boring, unexciting and prudent. i suggest that maybe we look carefully at what he had to say, because he said that good regulation begins at home and before we start looking at the world we need to look at ourselves – although i am inclined to the view that excessive regulation is as bad as none whatsoever. therefore, we need to be very balanced in this. but, whatever we do, there are people now in business, on farms and in households who cannot get small amounts of credit to keep themselves going. i was on a farm in ireland recently and they could not renew their eur 25 000 overdraft. this is a really serious problem and we need to address it. on the work programme, we will have the budget review, the implementation of the health check and review of fisheries. it will be a busy year and i wish you luck.
our questions were framed some weeks ago and the situation is now worse than, and different to, the situation then. so, on that basis, could i ask how united the council is in its joint action, and, where you have a situation in which member states have to act alone, is the system working effectively?
is it not time we had something like a marshall aid plan, perhaps a sarkozy plan for europe? how would you fund that? supposing china was to lend money to the european investment bank or the european bank for reconstruction and development and you were to give grants to member states – that would not affect their debt/gnp ratio. how would you refund it? from the customs and excise that you would collect from trade and perhaps from an extra 0.5 % vat contribution from the member states who would draw down this facility. will you give consideration at your december meeting to a marshall aid-type plan and stop tinkering at the edges? we are now just entering into this recession, and, if we take it head on with calculated risk, we can see our way through it.
i would like to know whether the french presidency finds itself isolated at the council table in any way in terms of its historic fondness for regulation of the market and, in this particular instance, for financial services.
i am reassured by your comments – both with your french hat and the wider council hat. but would you not agree that this incident, and any such incidents like this, are very bad from the point of view of our eu operations and that we need to be very clear and very careful about how we handle any such reports so that we deal with them timely and that it does not cause a slur, if you like, on our good work?
with electronic transfer of payments and the ease of electronic reimbursement, surely it is not beyond the collective competence and wit of european institutions to put the technology in place to allow the essential single market right of freedom of movement or cross-border mobility of all our citizens – including the disabled and old age pensioners and others – or is it the fact that there is no collective will to do so? is any country standing in the way of a collective resolution to this problem?
mr president, i came down to the chamber while i was watching the debate in my office just to make, i suppose, a broad point. in ireland we have the bank guarantee scheme, because of the financial crisis, and we have more unity now in the eu as to how we deal with this. but we now realise that our banks will need to be recapitalised and, perhaps, as a matter of more urgency than we first thought. i wish to express the hope that that would happen, because we have a real problem, as was said by the previous speaker. we need people to spend and to invest and there just are no credit lines available. i think it is most important that something happens swiftly to restore confidence and capital to the banking system.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá staid reatha réigiún oirthear phoblacht dhaonlathach an chongó, ag dul in olcas ó lá go lá, agus tá an pobal idirnáisiúnta an-bhuartha faoi seo. tá os cionn milliún go leith duine curtha as áitreabh i gcúige kivu, agus is léiriú é seo ar cé chomh dona agus atá an fhadhb. tacaím le hiarracht roeland van de geer, ionadaí speisialta an aontais eorpaigh chuig réigiún mhór-lochanna na hafraice, agus iar-uachtarán na nigéire, an tuasal obasanjo, a chuaigh i mbun comhráite déine leis na grúpaí polaitiúla agus na grúpaí míleata atá sáite sa bhforéigean seo. iarraim ar aontas na hafraice, breis iarrachta a dhéanamh le síocháin a chinntiú i réigiún na mór-lochanna. shínigh rialtais ruanda agus naiorbi socrú síochána i samhain na bliana 2007, in iarracht an t-achrann atá idir an dá thír a réiteach. caithfear a chinntiú go gcuirfear an socrú sin i bhfeidhm, ach caithfear deireadh a chur leis an bhforéigean ar dtús. tugann an taontas eorpach níos mó airgid do réigiún na mór-lochanna ná a thugann aon eagraíocht ná aon tír eile ar domhan. iarraim ar louis michel, coimisinéir an aontais eorpaigh ar chúrsaí forbartha, agus ar an gcomhairle iarracht a dhéanamh deireadh a chur leis an troid agus síocháin a chur i réim.
mr president, i echo the sentiments of my colleagues in expressing my extreme concern regarding renewed fighting between the congolese army and resurgent militias in north kivu in the drc. the increase in violence in north kivu has seriously overstretched the un peacekeeping mission (monuc) in operation in this country. the humanitarian situation is particularly grave with more than 1.5 million internal displaced persons in kivu province. the operations of the world food programme and other ngos have been seriously restricted by the violence and there is widespread theft, rape and killing of civilians by both government and rebel forces. monuc has a mandate under chapter 7 of the un charter to ensure the protection of civilians under imminent threat of physical violence, but lacks the resources and quantity of troops needed to fulfil this mandate. the international community and the un security council must strengthen monuc by providing appropriate materials and staff to enable it to fulfil its mission. seeing that the european union has decided not to initiate steps towards another esdp mission to deal with these further escalations in violence in the drc, i would urge the european union to enhance its cooperation with monuc to the greatest degree possible. the current french-drafted un security council resolution proposes a temporary increase of monuc’s authorised military strength by up to 2 785 military personnel. this increase would bring the maximum permitted number of troops and police deployed under monuc, already the biggest un peacekeeping force in the world, to just over 20 000 to cover a country roughly the size of western europe. i urge the un security council to vote on this resolution as soon as possible, given the urgency of the current events in the drc. i am outraged by the massacres, the crimes against humanity and acts of sexual violence against women and girls in the eastern province of drc, and i call on all relevant national and international authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an vóta an-dearfach a bhí anseo inniu don chomhbheartas talmhaíochta agus ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur chomh maith roimh na beartais atá léirithe; cosúil le torthaí agus glasraí a chur ar fáil do scoileanna. ach maidir leis an bpolasaí féin, ba mhaith liom arís béim a chur ar an modhnú éigeantach atá molta ag an gcoimisiún agus a rá go bhfuil mé glan ina choinne. caithfidh solúbthacht a bheith sa bpolasaí agus caithfidh na ballstáit cead a bheith acu an modhnú sin a ardú nó a ísliú de réir mar is maith leo. i mo thuairimse, tá an tairseach de eur 5 000 ró-íseal. ba cheart é sin a ardú go dtí eur 10 000 chun cosaint agus tacaíocht a thabhairt d’fheirmeoirí atá ar ioncam íseal agus atá ag fulaingt mar atá siad – ní áirím a bheith ag tógáil airgid uathu maidir le modhnú éigeantach.
mr president, i compliment mr capoulas santos on his very complex work. the fine gael delegation supported these reports with caveats. on the issue of milk quota, we voted for greater flexibility and a higher percentage increase in quota, giving farmers the opportunity to produce milk should they wish. we regret that this was not the view of the plenary and that we are now back with the commission’s proposal. secondly, on modulation, we are concerned about the transferring of funds from pillar 1 to pillar 2 because it takes income from farmers to be used in schemes which require cofinancing by member states, and this is something that may not be guaranteed into the future. the raising of the franchise to eur 10 000, on which parliament has voted in favour, is welcome. i would like to clarify that our vote on recital 6 – amendments 190 and 226 – should read ‘+’ (in favour). i hope that the council will assist the ailing sheep sector in its deliberations of tomorrow and today.
in writing. − while i supported the santos report (a6-0402/2008) on the proposal for a council regulation establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, i am not in favour of the amendment that passed on increasing modulation. it will result in extra funds being transferred from pillar 1 to pillar 2 taking income directly from farmers (particularly small farmers) in countries such as ireland. funds will go to schemes which require cofinancing by member states – a source of funding that is uncertain and cannot be relied on.
in writing. − with regard to the santos report (a6-0401/2008) on the cap health check, i need to clarify that, while i voted for the report, there is one aspect of the cap, namely subsidies to grow tobacco, that i cannot support nor have i ever supported. tobacco is the most heavily subsidised crop per hectare in the eu. since the early 1990s, the eu has spent about eur 1 000 million annually on subsidies to tobacco growers. despite the effort to reduce these subsidies, tobacco subsidies are still given out to tobacco farmers by the hundreds of millions (eur 963 million in 2002). this is by far the highest support, compared to other agricultural sectors, creating distorted incentives and high levels of inefficiency. it has been costly, the policy has not worked from a trade point of view, and it has been bad for the eu’s reputation, exposing an awkward ambivalence in the eu’s health goals. subsidies should be removed completely from tobacco (but not from tobacco farmers) and switched to support healthy agriculture much quicker than currently planned.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tacaím go mór leis an moladh a iarrann go dtiocfadh an coinbhinsiún chun cosc a chur ar chnuasbhuamaí i bhfeidhm ó dheireadh na bliana seo ar aghaidh. tá na rialtais ar fad a chuireann forfhógra osló 2007 i bhfeidhm sásta cáipéis dhleathach a dhréachtadh roimh dheireadh na bliana 2008 a chuirfeadh stop le húsáid na gcnuasbhuamaí; agus a chuirfeadh córas i bhfeidhm a spreagfadh comhoibriú agus cúnamh dóibh siúd a thug a gcosa leo as ionsaithe dhá leithéid go dtí seo agus a mhillfeadh aon stocanna cnuasbhuamaí atá fós thart. tá mé an-bhródúil gur in éirinn – i mbaile átha cliath i mo thír féin – a thángthas ar shocrú faoin gconradh seo le linn comhdhála idirnáisiúnta a bhí ansin níos luaithe i mbliana. bhí na rannpháirtithe ar fad an-soiléir faoi na mianta a bhí acu ag an gcomhdháil sin – go gcuirfí cosc ar na cnuasbhuamaí feasta. agus mar a d’iarr mo chomhghleacaithe anseo sa teach inniu, ba mhaith liom go gcuirfeadh na tíortha eile nár shínigh é seo fós a síniú leis. caithfear deireadh iomlán a chur leis an armlón uafásach seo.
in writing. – i urgently call upon all eu member states to immediately ratify and implement the convention on cluster munitions. cluster munitions visit unspeakable and indiscriminate horror on civilian populations worldwide, most recently in the georgian conflict. the convention on cluster munitions prohibits the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of cluster munitions. the convention was adopted by 107 states at conference in dublin in may this year. however, the convention will not enter into force until at least 30 states have also ratified it. it beggars belief that eight eu member states have no immediate plans to sign the convention. thus the eu, the most successful peace project ever, a community founded on the very principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law, fails to endorse the extension of international humanitarian law to ban one of the most insidious anti-civilian weapons in use today. i call on cyprus, estonia, finland, greece, poland, romania, slovakia, and, slovenia to ratify the convention on cluster munitions without delay and help bring an end to the use of cluster bombs.
my question concerns ireland, where a large number of young people have been involved in tragic accidents as the sole occupants of vehicles. i should like to know whether any research has been done across europe on this topic and if we could revitalise the programme about educating young people in driving. a lot more work needs to be done, and i would ask that we revitalise that education programme at the earliest possible date.
again i am pleased to hear what the commissioner has to say but i share the concerns of the last speaker. i am concerned about how the message is going to be conveyed out there and i agree about the electronic media. there is a real danger that brochures and books will remain in offices unread. i have seen this happen so many times. i suppose the question i want to ask is: how do you intend to get the message out there to those who are interested? are you going to try to target interested groups, or is it simply a blanket approach?
i just want to say to the vice-president of the commission that we should look at the situation in denmark, where they are now talking about applying for membership of the euro; in iceland, where the country has been torn apart; and in sweden, where clearly they are looking again at joining the euro. for example, who is telling the people of ireland that, because they were under the euro and the european central bank, they have been able to weather this storm much better than these other countries? is it not time that we actually start talking up the european union? this week we have members of the european parliament from ireland in this house making negative comments about the european union. who is going to make the positive comments and claim the good things for us so that people know the benefits of being in the european union and the euro?
i will be brief. first of all i would like to compliment the commissioner in particular for her efforts on this issue. as a former journalist, can i suggest that while a meeting of the commission might be interesting for the commission, we cannot force people to watch it. the problem is, information without emotion will not be taken up and i am afraid europe is pretty dull and boring – except your good self – so you need to address that. can i also say as a former journalist – and this is terrible that i am saying this in public – i was brought here, and to the commission, on many occasions and the grey walls and the dull presentations did not stimulate my european genes. you need to tackle that issue. finally, if the irish government had, as you said, listened better, explained better and gone local, there would have been a ‘yes’.
mr president, on a point of order, i just wanted to mention something in relation to the last session. i am sorry for raising it at this stage, but during the last session less than 15 minutes were given for three questions – 38, 39 and 40 – which were very much connected. i think it is unfortunate that they were not dealt with, because i think they could have been dealt with, and yet only 15 minutes were granted to the last session. i had understood it was 20 minutes.
i would like to ask the commissioner, when he is revisiting these questions and listening to parliament, if he will again revisit the question of ethical research and ethical researchers. it is very clear that the destruction of embryos is no longer required and there are many other avenues for exploration. will he now start putting resources into those other avenues so that we can return to a fully ethical research base within the european union?
a uachtaráin, gabhaim buíochas leis an gcoimisinéir as an bhfreagra cuimsitheach sin. maidir le taighde mara, taighde na farraige, agus teicneolaíocht agus eolaíocht na farraige, an bhfuil cabhair ar fáil faoi sheachtú creat-chlár an aontais chun cur leis an taighde mara agus le teicneolaíocht na mara faoin gclár sin?
mr president, i know i have just joined you, but i have been watching the monitor at a very important group meeting and i just wonder why we are not going seriatim. i really cannot stay. i came precisely when my question was scheduled and now you are reverting out of order. i would urge you please to stick to the order, mr president.
in the light of the french presidency’s objective of establishing a governance process for the european research area (era) by the end of 2009, could the commission specify what measures it plans undertaking, in cooperation with member states and parliament, to put in place science policy evaluation methodologies to ensure evidence-based policy options for science and research and development in the eu? with the announcement of the european research area’s ‘2020 vision’ agreed by the french presidency, the council and the commission, what progress is being made in the whole area of governance here in the era?
would the commissioner tell the house if the framework can be used to carry out research on human embryos which have already been destroyed before the research starts, or is this semantics and are we just playing with words? i return to the question i asked earlier and ask for more detail. will the commissioner take steps to ensure that everything possible is done to keep abreast of that form of research which does not raise the same ethical questions and which may well give the same or better results?
mr president, you said earlier you would not be allowing questions to the commissioner from people other than from the questioner. people can then come in and go on the record; why do they not put their own questions down about these issues? you have to follow the ruling consistently, mr president. you said you would not allow anybody other than the person who put down the question to ask questions and then you allow a gentleman here to get in on the back of my question. if i knew that this sort of question was put down, i would have gone on much longer about the point that i want to make. unethical research is totally unnecessary... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i was here at 18.15 this evening for these questions. my question was no 3 in a session. fifteen minutes were given to it. thirty-five minutes were given to this session. i think it is an unfair system when someone who is here on time does not get their question dealt with and i am extremely disappointed. i want my annoyance noted. it is extremely frustrating to come in here, to be here on time, and then find that questions are skipped so as to accommodate other people. i find it very annoying.
president of the council. - madam president, dear martine roure, as we are unfortunately going to be called upon to spend part of the evening together, i will try, on behalf of the council and also for mr potočnik, to sum up the council's remarks on demographic trends and their economic and social impact. the ageing of the population, that is to say the increase in the proportion of older people, is primarily the result of considerable economic, social and medical progress which offers europeans the chance to live long lives in a comfort of security unprecedented in their history. but it is also one of the most important challenges facing the union in the coming years. this aging is the result of four factors. the first is that the number of children per woman is low, with an average of 1.5 children in the union, well below the replacement rate, slightly above 2 2.1 , needed to stabilise population size. the second factor is the decline in fertility in recent decades, which followed the post-war baby boom and which is now causing the baby boom, a swelling in the population aged 45 to 65. after increasing by eight years since 1960, life expectancy at birth - and this is the third factor - could continue to increase by another five years by 2050, or even more. the last factor is that europe, as you know, is receiving an increasing flow of migrants from third countries. there were 1.8 million immigrants in 2004, a larger flow to europe than to the united states, relative to the total population, but this immigration only partially offsets the effects of low fertility and longer life expectancy. we are therefore in a situation where the dependency rate, i.e. the number of people aged over 65 compared to those aged between 15 and 64, is expected to double to more than 50% by 2050, with the union going from four to only two people of working age for every person aged over 65. the demographic change i have just described, taking these factors into account, is accompanied by profound social changes affecting the composition of families, and all this is reflected in an increasing number of older people living alone and very old people living in a situation of dependence. as you know, most of these matters are the responsibility of the member states. this is the case for family policy, social security systems and most of tax policy, and the council, in these circumstances, is of the opinion that the lisbon strategy and the open method of coordination constitute the framework within which the member states should act in this area, most of them agreeing that no new structures should be implemented. for the council, what seems really important in terms of guidelines is that, beyond better reconciliation between work and private life, the roles played by women and men in households must be rebalanced and there must be a greater supply of quality childcare and other dependent care facilities. in an ageing society, the contribution of young people is of great importance. efforts to achieve the objectives of combating youth unemployment and reducing early school leaving must therefore be stepped up. investing in children is the first concern if we want to improve the prospects of young people. it should also be recognised that europe is facing a pension problem rather than an ageing problem, although these serious trends are worrying and without sound public finances it would be impossible to cope with all the consequences of ageing. this means that we must pay extremely close attention to the sustainability of pension schemes and continue the reforms undertaken to ensure their sustainability and modernisation, in line with the strategy currently in force in the union. older workers should also be encouraged to stay in work, in particular by providing appropriate incentives. the council is also fully aware of all these challenges and has endorsed an opinion of the social protection committee on the prospects and challenges of demographic change in europe. on 30 may the council also adopted conclusions on the importance of policies adapted to the needs of families, setting out a series of initiatives to support family policies. it is in this context that, on 18 september, at the initiative of the french presidency, an informal meeting of the ministers responsible for the family was held, focusing on childcare, to ensure that there is a better reconciliation between family and professional life, and on the protection of children on the internet. in conclusion, the council calls on the commission, in particular, to regard the first forum on the demographic future of europe held in brussels on 30 and 31 october as the starting point for a structured and sustained dialogue both within and between the member states, and to ensure that the commission can also provide support to the relevant bodies to consider the best strategies for responding to the consequences of this demographic change.
member of the commission. − madam president, i might take a bit longer but i promise to compensate for that in the second response. parliament’s request for a statement on demographic trends from the council and the commission comes at the right time. this friday the commission services will present their second demography report – in time for the european demography forum on 24 and 25 november. the european union is going through a major demographic transformation. all the member states have seen life expectancy rise and fertility rates decline among their populations as a result of scientific, economic and social progress. today europeans live longer, healthier lives than their forbears did, and we can expect life expectancy to increase in the future. this ageing of europe’s population is no longer an abstract scenario for a distant future. the baby boom began 60 years ago and the first baby boomers are now reaching retirement age. so the european union’s demographic development has reached a turning point. from now on, the number of those aged 60 and over will rise by two million people every year for the next 25 years. meanwhile, the rate of growth of the working age population is falling fast and will stop altogether in about six years. today there are four persons of working age – between 15 and 64 – for every person aged 65 or over in the 27 member states. in 2060, the ratio will be two to one. some see ageing as a threat and paint a bleak picture of conflict between the generations. but demographic change need not be a threat if we look at the opportunities it holds. living a longer, healthier life can mean staying active longer. most of the baby boomers are better educated and better trained than previous cohorts. today they are still fit and healthy. i am convinced that demographic change offers the chance of stronger solidarity between the generations. but i do not expect that to come about by itself. society will have to make better use of the abilities of all generations and give everyone the chance to develop his or her full potential. that means modernising our social policies – in line with the renewed social agenda the commission adopted in july. the renewed social agenda identified europe’s ageing society as a priority area for action and recommended a number of policy responses. our goal is to help the member states make the most of the possibilities and manage the impact of an ageing society effectively. the approaches and recommendations set out in the commission’s 2006 communication ‘the demographic future of europe: from challenge to opportunity’ continue to be valid. that communication expressed confidence in europe’s ability to adapt to demographic change. but it also stressed the need to act in five key areas: promoting demographic renewal in europe, by creating the conditions for our fellow citizens to fulfil their desire to have children, in particular by helping to reconcile work and family and private life; promoting employment in europe, by ensuring that more and better jobs are created and people can work longer, in order to improve the balance between active and inactive people; promoting a more productive and more dynamic europe, by optimising skills at all ages; taking in and integrating migrants into europe, by attracting skilled and unskilled workers from abroad and facilitating their integration in order to alleviate labour shortages; ensuring the sustainability of public finances, by consolidating budgets and reforming social protection systems in order to guarantee adequate social protection and public services in the future. the lisbon strategy already covers the most important of those policy responses, but it focuses less on the long term than the demography debate. that is why the commission has proposed additional tools in the form of biennial reports on the demographic situation in europe and two-yearly demography forums. in the 2008 report the focus will be on the potential of the baby boom cohorts. a growing number of people in their 60s and 70s will probably be willing to continue playing an active part in social and economic life. the employment rates of older people have risen in recent years, reversing the past trend towards ever earlier retirement. but more needs to be done: when they reach 60, only 40% of men and 30% of women are still in employment. yet most people in that age group are still fit and capable of contributing to the economy and society. the ageing baby boomers can also make a major contribution to society as informal care-providers and volunteers. their contribution deserves to be recognised and supported by public policies. it is crucial to ensure that the growing number of older people can lead an independent life for as long as possible. a key objective of demography forums is to promote mutual learning based on good practice among the member states. the next european demography forum – to take place in brussels on 24 and 25 november – will focus on family policies and active ageing. it will also provide an opportunity to take stock of how prepared the member states are for demographic change and to identify the most important opportunities for further action. early next year, the commission will present an update of the implications of demographic change for future public spending, in particular in the area of pensions, health and long-term care, based on eurostat’s new population projections. to wind up, i want to emphasise that it is the responsibility of the individual member states to implement the right policies in the face of demographic change. but demographic change is a challenge we all face together. the member states can learn a lot from each other’s successes and failures in responding to this demographic change. that is why the commission encourages a europe-wide debate on demographic change and is offering a platform for the exchange of experiences and mutual learning.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, there are many issues that arise in the context of this evening’s discussion, but i would just like to look at one of them: care and carers. if we are lucky enough to live long enough, we will most likely need care, and, while there are differences between member states, the likelihood is that this will largely consist of informal care. carers form the foundation of formal care and social care, and are an indispensable part of long-term care provision. if carers are expected to keep providing care – which they are – then their needs must be an inherent part of health and social care policy development. in this context, i am pleased to see that the dg sanco website has a short section devoted to carers, and i have no doubt that this came about as a result of the submission the carers’ interest group in parliament made to dg sanco on its annual work programme. however, carers need more than just a mention. we believe it is time to design a new social contract for care that goes way beyond the traditional view of a contract between the state and the individual, and calls for new commitments involving employers, local agencies and communities. indeed, the recent ecj judgment on discrimination by association points the way. caring cannot be the sole responsibility of the informal carer or, indeed, of the member state. the informal care system will collapse without proper support, while with an exclusively state-based approach the costs will simply be too high. that is why we need this wider social contract. finally, there are approximately 100 million carers across the eu. they are unpaid, undervalued and in many cases inadequately supported. i welcome the mention on dg sanco’s website, but this is a first step only. by its very extent, this is a european issue and action will have to be coordinated between member states. policy on carers should be part of the work of dg sanco, and also of dg employment and social affairs.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, we are facing a crisis in europe to which we will not find a solution until we face the fact that the crisis is of our own making. in the eu we kill over one and a half million children before birth every year. we destroy our future and then wonder why we have a crisis. we talk about a fertility problem, but this is not a fertility problem: it is a refusal to let millions of babies conceived be born. unless we are honest in identifying the problem, there can be no solution. the solutions are that we must respect life and support the family, in order for that life to find a nurturing environment. by taking these steps, we can begin to tackle the challenge of skewed demographics. improvement will not happen overnight, but at this point we can still avert disaster. one should study the case of japan closely. two decades ago it was the second largest economy in the world, and one of the most advanced. in 2007 the japanese population peaked and entered decline. in 1995, twelve years before the downturn, japan entered deflation as negative demographics began to take their toll. it has never got out of it. japan is 20 years ahead of europe in this, but it was also 20 years ahead of european countries in legalising abortion. we peak in 2025 – which is only 17 years away. i wonder if the deflation we are now entering, in 2008, is here to stay, with the banking crisis being replaced by a demographic crisis, which will be with us until we learn to respect life again.
madam president, it seems we will all live longer but enjoy fewer grandchildren. i suppose the reasons why that is the case are very complex and varied. i think children are seen as a ‘problem’ and you hear that when you talk to people who do not have children. we also talk about a child care ‘problem’ rather than a ‘solution’. older people, too, feel that they are a burden and worry about who will look after them into their old age. i think that those of us in the middle somewhere fear this impending doom because there will be even fewer people around to pay for our pensions and to look after us when we, too, are unable to do so. the role of carers in society, as marian harkin rightly pointed out, is totally undervalued and that needs to change. and i wonder – listening to tonight’s debate – in the context of the financial and economic crisis, can the commission perhaps answer this question, and see that this problem of the demographic trend could actually get worse because of the situation we are now in? that would be regrettable.
madam president, the most important work done by any citizen is the rearing of the next generation. and, without any hectoring or lecturing of the young women of today, married or single, what we need to do is restore the freedom of choice to all women who want to stay at home to have the second or third child and to ensure that they are not forced to remain in employment because of economic and financial circumstances. we must ensure that full pension credits or a parental pension or a maternal pension are preserved for the women working in the home so that their old age will be financially secure and that they can be properly rewarded by the state for doing that most important work for all of us: rearing the next generation. on another point, given the increased average number of healthy years available to most of us, the compulsory retirement age – the traditional retirement age – of 65 must be revisited, and revisited urgently. on average, women are now well into their thirties when they give birth to their first child. we must review this situation as quickly as possible.
madam president, in 2006 over 86 000 newly-diagnosed hiv cases were reported, and over 13 000 aids cases were diagnosed in the who european region. in western europe, 10% of the new infections occurred amongst the 15-to-24 age group, and 25% of those newly infected were female. the main route of transmission was heterosexual contact, as the commissioner has said. in eastern europe, the main route of transmission was via drug injection. very worryingly, 27% of new infections there occurred in the 15-to-25 age group, and 41% of the newly-infected patients were female. currently, 30% of hiv-infected patients do not know that they are infected and are responsible for over a half of all new hiv infections. in addition, late diagnosis implies late use of anti-retroviral therapy, with increasingly limited opportunities for the drugs to have effect. there is an urgent need for european-level guidance on hiv testing and counselling. we must have comprehensive and flexible guidance on best practice in reporting, in testing, in treatment and in care. in my own country, ireland – while data on hiv and aids should be interpreted with caution owing to considerable under-reporting and late reporting – the total number of aids cases reported up to the end of december 2007 is almost 1 000. that figure is, however, expected to rise owing to that under-reporting. the cumulative number of hiv infections reported in the same period was 4 780. prevention strategies need yet again to be top of the news, on the front pages of our e-newspapers. complacency has set in. fear of infection has evaporated. we need to spell out the facts, in an open and tolerant way. john bowis is so right when he says that while fewer people are dying of aids, more and more are living with it.
madam president, hiv prevention and treatment capacity varies across different socioeconomic and geopolitical settings. promoting the early diagnosis of hiv infection should be a component of all comprehensive approaches to addressing aids. even in countries where anti-retroviral treatment options are severely limited, important contributions to health can be achieved through the diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections among hiv-infected persons. in a recent us research publication it was found that the time between self-reported dates of hiv diagnosis and presentation for care had in fact increased. the interval between diagnosis and presentation was substantially greater among injection drug users than among other risk groups. combined with this is a problem of the growing perception that aids is now a treatable condition, which undermines the public health message calling for frequent testing and prompt treatment of hiv.
madam president, i thank michael cashman for the passion he has brought to this debate. i am very glad that i stayed to listen to his words, and i hope that others will hear them and act upon them. my concern in relation to this issue is that the fear we had in the 1980s has been forgotten, and as a result we are taking our eye off the situation, when there is a whole generation of people who did not grow up in the 1980s who need to hear the message again. the challenge for us all is to try and bring a message of prevention into the public domain while not bringing back the stigma that sometimes comes with it. we have to be able to do this, because while testing is vital and treatment is absolutely vital for those who have the disease, we also want to stop people getting aids, living with it and tragically dying from it.
madam president, i really will not take a minute because, being from ireland, i have not been lobbied by wine producers. i think there is a general concern about the pulling together of so many different sectors in a single cmo. we really will not know if it works until it is done. i will therefore listen to the concerns of those who know more about the wine sector, while realising that we do have to move this process on. i hope that we will get better reassurances from the commission because we do need to listen to the concerns of the producers.
madam president, we know the importance of bees. everyone has spoken about it. however, one of the issues that has not been addressed in the debate is the reality of a substantial trade in commercial bumblebees. there is literally free movement of bees globally and, as far as i know, there is very little regulation of the movement of bees, when there needs to be. we do it in other live categories and in livestock, and we know that it works in terms of disease control. the movement of bees has the potential to import the varroa mite, as has happened in ireland. there is now the problem of the small hive beetle, which is causing havoc for bee-keepers. so we have a huge problem, to which we do not know the answer. there are at least half a dozen reasons why these things may be happening, and research is absolutely necessary. we need to coordinate that research across the european union so that we find answers. we also need to address the issue of beekeepers themselves, because it seems they are an ageing population, and we need more of them, not less.
madam president, if mrs lulling will stay quite long enough for me to congratulate her, i will be delighted to do so on her consistent interest and support for apiculture in the european parliament for some time now. the decline in bee populations and the frightening implications for plant pollination and biodiversity generally deserve our full attention and we must support research and join with scientists worldwide to try and find the causes. parasitic infections, climate change, pesticides: we can only speculate at this stage. twenty five per cent of our food depends directly on bees, apart altogether from their contribution to maintaining our grasslands. regrettably in ireland our only research centre in this area, in clonroche in county wexford, was closed down by the irish government some years ago. therefore, i am not sure that ireland can contribute; we have the scientists and the knowledge, but we certainly do not have the support from the government. i look forward to hearing from the commission how europe and the european union can support the research and what we are doing to date in this area.
mr president, i too would like to thank the court of auditors. having read their report and listened to the debate here this morning, i ask myself: is the glass half empty, or is the glass half full? the first sentence in the conclusions from the court states that for 2007 the court has identified further progress in the commission’s supervisory and control systems, so at least we are going in the right direction. there are improvements in certain areas, but the error rate is still way too high in some sectors, and those have been outlined here this morning. an extremely important aspect is that, according to olaf, suspected fraud in the structural funds affected 0.16% of payments made by the commission between 2000 and 2007, and that is a hugely significant figure. however, as a politician on the ground, i see the other side of it. i am constantly being told by community groups, by voluntary groups, by ngos, of the huge difficulty they have in applying for funding and adhering to strict compliance rules at every single step. i am constantly being bombarded about brussels red tape and brussels bureaucracy and, in the middle of citizens and this debate, we have member states – many of whom need to seriously improve their act – the commission, which still has some work to do, parliament and the court of auditors. i believe, however, that the recommendations from the court will make a difference, particularly in simplifying the basis of calculation of eligible costs and making greater use of lump-sum or flat-rate payments. we are making progress but it is too slow. so, is the glass half empty or half full? when i consider the full impact of european funding, the improvements that are being made, and hopefully the implementation of the recommendations, my opinion is that the glass is half full.
mr president, i should like to thank the court of auditors for its presentation this morning, which was extremely detailed and very useful. yes, the error rates are too high – and we all strive for perfection – but progress has been made, and the eu generally has made progress, so that is to be welcomed. the general point i would make is that member states are perhaps more careful with their own money than with european money, and we need to change that mindset. however, as others have said, we do not need to overcomplicate the rules and regulations concerning compliance, because that puts people off, and particularly those who might need to have access to funding. i have in my hand here – hot off the presses – the health check on the common agricultural policy agreed in the early hours of this morning. one thing that strikes me very clearly from the presentation this morning is that it was clearly said that, when it comes to rural development, there are big problems in terms of compliance when, under the health check, we are now taking more money from the single farm payment to pour into rural development. there is an issue to be addressed here. at the end of the day, putting money into rural development programmes to address climate change, biodiversity and water management is, in theory, a very good idea, but how does one measure these things and assess value for money? that is something we need to look at very carefully. i have a concern that this report, as in the past, will be used to beat up on the eu – to say bad things about it – rather than in the way it should be used, which is to say: look, we have made progress and we are pointing to areas where we need to make further improvements, so that we spend european money in a way which is good for the european citizen, and avoid making that overcomplicated. the most widely-used word in the house this morning was ‘simplification’. if it was that simple, then we would already be doing it. while i do not think things are quite that easy, perhaps if those who control and inspect were more in tune with the issues on the ground, then it might help the process someway along. so, i commend the presentation, and let us hope that we continue to spend well.
in writing. − i regrettably abstained on the vote on the report by ewa klamt (a6-0432/2008), the proposal for a council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment, as ireland did not opt in to this proposal under article 3 to the fourth protocol to the amsterdam treaty and already has an existing national policy in this area which offers flexibility and a wide degree of discretion in terms of adapting to labour market conditions.
in writing. − i felt obliged to abstain on the vote on the report by patrick gaubert (a6-0431/2008) on the proposal for a council directive on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a member state. i did so because regrettably ireland did not opt in to this proposal under article 3 to the fourth protocol to the amsterdam treaty. demographic forecasts and the current economic situation prove that an effective immigration policy is needed in europe so that our labour force requirements are regulated appropriately. in the coming decades europe’s economic and social development will depend on an influx of new economic migrants. this means that we need active europe-wide policies for admitting both highly-skilled workers and less-skilled workers.
in writing. − the current financial situation demonstrates the protective effect of the euro, and we should do all that we can to encourage all non-eurozone member states to adopt the euro as soon as they meet the criteria. it is also my view that non-eurozone eu countries which need financial support should first look to the eu before approaching international bodies. it is for these reasons that i supported this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council framework decision on the use of passenger name records (pnr) for law enforcement purposes (b6-0615/2008). i did so as any proposal in this area must be proportionate and in compliance with the european court of human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the commission’s proposal could have a considerable impact on the personal life of european citizens and it has failed to provide sufficient evidence that the mass collection of data is needed at the eu level.
in writing. − i supported this resolution on ‘how to bring space down to earth’ (b6-0582/2008) as i believe we should support a european space policy. in ireland decreasing numbers of young people are choosing science as a career option – a trend that is repeated across europe. space exploration is inspiring for young people and encourages them to choose a career in science and technology; it also strengthens research capabilities in europe. however, i am of the view that the use of space must serve exclusively non-military purposes and we should reject any direct or indirect military use of systems such as galileo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the review of recommendation 2001/331/ec providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states (b6-0580/2008). good and even enforcement of community environmental law is essential and anything less falls short of public expectations and undermines the reputation of the community as an effective guardian of the environment. if our legislation is to have any credibility it needs to be enforced effectively.
mr president, on 27 october a 13-year-old girl named aisha ibrahim duhulow – and let us not forget the name – was stoned to death in somalia by a group of 50 men in a stadium in the southern port of kismayo in front of around a thousand spectators. she was accused and convicted of adultery in breach of islamic law, but was in fact the victim of rape by three men. there has been no arrest or detention of those accused of her rape. i strongly condemn the stoning and execution of aisha ibrahim duhulow and i am horrified at such a barbaric act perpetrated against a 13-year-old rape victim. as unicef stated in the aftermath of her tragic death, a child was victimised twice: first by the perpetrators of the rape, and then by those responsible for administering the justice. this abhorrent treatment of women can in no way be condoned and permitted under sharia law. this episode highlights not only the vulnerability of girls and women in somalia, but the inherent discrimination such individuals have to endure.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am happy to say that i was one of those who was part of this parliament’s official delegation to the plc two weeks ago, and we visited the al-kurd family. at that point they were still hopeful that the israeli courts would deliver a just decision. it is regrettable that they had a vain hope and that they have now been completely evicted from their home and, not only that, have been removed from the immediate area of their home, where they were staying in a tent. it is difficult to maintain any shred of hope that a sustainable two-state solution is still possible, given the war of attrition against the palestinian people, which we witnessed on our recent visit and which this eviction is a reflection of. it is quite appalling that we are, at this point in time, even considering upgrading relations with israel when there are so many breaches of international law, families being evicted, settlements being put in place. eleven thousand palestinian prisoners are in jail. forty elected representatives of the palestinian people, including the speaker, are in jail, as are 300 children under the age of 18, including children as young as 12 years of age. this is not acceptable from a state which claims to be a democratic state and which claims to be complying with the norms of international law. it is not the case. the eu must insist upon the israeli government restoring the al-kurd family to their home. israel must be told in no uncertain terms that, if it wants to continue to do business with the eu, it must comply with democratic and humanitarian norms in practice as well as rhetorically. certainly any idea that the eu should upgrade its relations with israel, as some member states are proposing, should be dropped so long as injustices of this kind continue. i would like to conclude with a point of order. i think that the proposal here of oral amendments on a thursday afternoon – amendments which do not reflect the facts on the ground and which do not have the support of the joint authors of this resolution – is an abuse of the ability to place oral amendments. i believe that this matter should be looked at by parliament’s secretariat and proposals brought forward to ensure that it does not happen again.
mr president, i simply want to ask you to put on the record my objections to the abuse of the oral amendment system here this afternoon.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office, mr jouyet, and the president of the commission for their presentations here today. i would like to speak very briefly on the issue of the economic recovery plan because that, in a lot of ways, is what concerns the citizens and the people most with regard to how we are going to react and respond to the unprecedented global issues which have befallen us over the last number of months. i welcome the commission’s recovery plan and proposal. it does dovetail and fit nicely into what the member states are already doing and, indeed, what the member states agreed to do under a coordinated plan under the french presidency. it is quite unique – and quite ironic in one sense – that it took this crisis to bring the british government into the club to see how we can cooperate and coordinate together, despite the many years of striving to stay outside and to chart their own individual course. what this issue brings about more than anything else is a recognition that, yes, we have independence, yes, we can do things individually but, when we act collectively, when we come together and bring the great brains, innovation, talent and energy of the 27 member states together, then you can truly change the world with that individual collective effort. i congratulate commission president barroso and the president of the council for allowing us to mature in 2008 as a european union, to respond as adults to what were severe crises and criticisms with regard to europe’s ability to react. that brings me on to the second point that we will discuss in the council, the issue of the treaty of lisbon. obviously there are huge concerns amongst many people with regard to how we are going to resolve the issues that are left over because of the failure to ratify lisbon in every member state. i am quite confident that the irish government will come forward with a plan of how things should happen. that plan will call on other member states to do certain things as well. it is not just the irish on their own who have to deal with this problem. every member state – again acting collectively – has to deal with this problem. i would encourage all members to look at the report that the special committee in the oireachtas, the national parliament in ireland, brought forward. it is notable that the only people who objected to that report were the same people who objected to the treaty of lisbon and every other treaty before that. these are the same shadowy figures who like to hide in the darkness and claim there is a better way, but never say what that better way is; the very same people who never put forward what is best for irish interests and european interests, but merely something for a small political gain for themselves. the reality is that collectively we can achieve greater and better things but also that this requires compromise, understanding and tolerance of the differing viewpoints that will be coming forward.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, eu leaders will meet in brussels next week and, if the taoiseach brian cowan proposes that irish support for the lisbon treaty can be secured by agreeing political declarations, or making soothing noises on a selection of issues, he is being deeply misleading. the taoiseach has sought to distract attention from the profound dissatisfaction which the people, not only in ireland but much more broadly, feel with the direction the eu is heading. opinion polls in ireland, and indeed the government’s own research into the ‘no’ vote, have outlined people’s concerns over workers’ rights, public services, militarisation and democracy, and these concerns are shared by millions of workers and families across the union. the economic crisis which faces us demonstrates that now more than ever public services and workers’ rights need to be protected from unfettered and unregulated market forces. as governments grapple with the crisis, it becomes increasingly clear that the lisbon treaty is obsolete. governments have rediscovered the need for state intervention in the public interest, the need for flexibility and discretion in responding to their people’s needs, and they have learnt a costly lesson. they have learned that the market is not king. it cannot provide all of the solutions, and yet lisbon seeks the coronation of this failed free-market approach that has brought such havoc in its wake. we need a new direction and the truth is that the lisbon treaty does not provide it. the irish government has failed to bring the debate to other governments; it has failed to seek a better deal, not just for ireland, but for the whole union. the irish government should learn a lesson from its people; it should learn to lead. and it must lead the way. but all eu leaders bear a responsibility to address, to really address the people’s concerns. cynical political manoeuvres and empty rhetoric will not win irish support for lisbon, will not address the serious flaws in the lisbon treaty, but above all will not provide the new paths that the eu needs. leaders have a choice. they can lead from the hearts and spirits of their peoples, or they can make decisions that are in the interests of the lobbyists and the bureaucrats. to the eu leaders i say: make the right choice; listen to ireland and hear in its voice the echo of france and the netherlands, the demand for reform, for renewal, the demand for change.
madam president, there is an overwhelming desire in ireland to remain at the heart of european affairs and to ensure that europe can act effectively and transparently in the interests of the member states. this is particularly so, and more important than ever, in the current financial and economic crisis. irish citizens, however, need assurances that the ‘no’ camp’s misleading claims concerning the lisbon treaty on the commission, on abortion, on conscription, on military neutrality, on workers’ rights and on public services have no basis in fact. to significantly enhance the possibility of ratification of the lisbon treaty a decision needs to be made by the heads of state that, once the lisbon treaty is in place, its mechanism will be used to make certain that all member states will recover the right to nominate a commissioner without restriction. a simple extension of that right from 2014 to 2019 will not, in my view, be sufficient to ensure ratification in ireland. in addition, a commitment to add a social clause on labour rights to the posting of workers directive, similar to the clause added to the services directive, would go a long way to address the dangers that arise from the laval, viking and rüffert judgments, which were also a cause of concern in ireland. i would urge the council and the commission to address these matters urgently at the coming summit.
madam president, the forthcoming summit has many serious issues to deal with, not least a coordinated eu-wide response to the global challenge of the serious economic downturn. this comes on the back of a major crisis of confidence in our banking systems, due to their failure to sustain the acceptable level of liquidity required to underpin day-to-day commercial and industrial business operations in all our member states. so millions of viable jobs and thousands of solid businesses are in danger of going under as we speak. yes, we must mobilise all european institutions to respond to the crisis and – as the commission’s recovery plan says – this crisis occurs on the eve of a major structural shift towards the low-carbon economy, with major new economic opportunities and, indeed, serious first-mover advantages. this brings me to the summit discussion on the climate and energy package, on which we will have a long discussion tomorrow, so i will limit myself to just one point. that is to underscore the importance of full respect for the codecision process between council and parliament, to emphasise that any political agreement on outstanding issues – issues between square brackets – discussed and decided on by heads of state and government at the summit will have to be presented as compromise amendments to subsequent trialogues by the ever hard-working french presidency and may or may not be agreed by the parliament. we will sign off and, while i fully support the objective of first-reading agreement, please be warned that it will not be at any price. now to the lisbon treaty item. yes, we have had time to digest and analyse the 12 june vote, but no, minister jouyet, we will not – and should not even attempt to – ratify again at the beginning of next year, or we risk failure again with our deeply unpopular government. do not hold your breath in expecting our taoiseach’s road map – that is, if you get one – to announce a date for a referendum. i have sat and listened here today to cynical lectures from sinn féin on the risk of militarisation lurking in the lisbon treaty’s small print and to mr allister’s faux concerns for the irish electorate – more examples of the level of intellectual dishonesty to which the irish electorate is subject. yet there is a constituency of genuine concern. i thank the french presidency for its offer of all assistance with legal guarantees and any assurances that may be required. i thank all members and you, madam president, for your understanding as we continue to trespass on your patience.
mr president, apologies that my voice is not particularly good, although it is maybe just as well. i might have got angry with some of the comments from my colleague from sinn féin in relation to the lisbon treaty. let me just say that in ireland we put the cart before the horse. we are actually having a very good debate about the lisbon treaty since the vote. would it had been the other way around! there is now some logic and sense being talked about it in ireland. and can i say to the battered bureaucrats and lobbyists that i have decided that you are some of the best thing we have. honestly you should bite back, because it is ironic that sinn féin should talk about public services, which are run by bureaucrats, and yet condemn the very bureaucrats of these institutions. we wait to see what the irish government says next week. it does not have much public confidence at the moment, so it may not be the best of times to talk about another vote if that is what has to happen. but i believe that there is sense prevailing in ireland and that people are now reflecting on the situation we find ourselves in and now know that we need to be at the heart of europe, given the crisis that we are in.
mr president, i welcome the work which the member states, the council and the commission are doing in dealing with this difficult issue. many of my colleagues have already dealt in detail with the action that is required. however, at this time member states should not change their commitment to developing countries. there is a need for eu member states to maintain overseas development assistance (oda). the financial crisis is expected to have a severe impact on humanitarian funding, with some analysts predicting cuts in oda of up to a third or more. eu member states should not slack off on meeting the millennium development goal targets now that there is a temptation to reduce spending. the worldwide financial meltdown has highlighted the interdependent globalised nature of our world. even if developing nations have avoided many of the immediate effects of the financial crisis, owing to their limited exposure to global markets, economists are warning that there will be a knock-on effect in terms of a reduction in aid inflows as well as remittance, foreign direct investment and economic growth. we could see developing countries suffer considerably for a financial mess they did not create. therefore member states should maintain the status quo.
mr president, europe cannot upgrade its relations with israel until its government convincingly demonstrates a change of course. it must end the collective punishment of the palestinian population by lifting the siege of gaza and demonstrate its commitment to engage seriously with the palestinian leadership to find a workable and sustainable two-state solution. we all want normal relations with israel, but it is impossible in the current circumstances. i support without reservation israel’s right to defend itself, but such defence has to be within accepted international law and the responsibilities an occupying power takes upon itself when it invades another country. the state of israel, which prides itself on its democratic system, has been found in breach of international law on so many occasions in the way it treats palestinians that most people’s patience has been stretched to breaking point. on a recent official visit to gaza, jerusalem and the west bank, i saw for myself the serious deterioration in the conditions of daily life for ordinary palestinians. their economy has been crushed. there are 210 illegal settlements. palestinian land and homes are constantly being seized. there are 11 000 palestinian prisoners and 40 elected members of the palestinian legislative council in detention. over 300 young people under 18 years of age, some as young as 12 years old, are in detention. gaza is under siege and threat of military invasion and already 50% of its population is dependent on food aid. the list goes on. this brutal collective punishment and land grabbing by israel is a gross breach of international law and is destroying the possibility of peace. consequently, now is not the time for this parliament to assent to an upgrading of relations. in fact i believe it should be deferred until after the israeli and palestinian elections due early in 2009. in the meantime, every effort must be made by the international community to de-escalate the situation and to create the conditions for palestinians and israelis to live in peace.
mr president, those of us who have spoken in favour of deferring a decision on this matter have been accused a number of times in this debate of being anti-semitic. that is totally inappropriate. nobody on this side of the debate has accused anyone on the other side of bad faith or of having motives other than concern for the future of the people of israel and the palestinians. it would be in order for all of us here to recognise that we are concerned about people and that is why we take the position that we take. it is not based on any kind of anti-semitic ideology.
mr president, the reason i wanted to make a one minute speech tonight is because i am concerned that, in ireland, ryanair are about to make a bid for the national airline, aer lingus. the bid, if successful, would create a private monopoly of airlines in the irish market. the commission rejected this proposal on a previous occasion and i would urge commissioner neelie kroes to reject this bid again. in my view, it is a predatory bid and it would not be good for ireland’s economy to have this airline in the hands of ryanair, who have no loyalty whatsoever to the irish economy.
mr president, all eu countries need to have in place legislation which criminalises the practice of female genital mutilation. measures also need to be put in place to address the needs of women and girls from new migrant communities who are at risk of fgm. i welcome ireland's recent commitment as one of the 15 eu member states to launch a national action plan on fgm. it is estimated that more than 2500 women living in ireland have undergone fgm in other countries. the irish plan highlights the risks fgm poses to women and girls and sets out policy goals to address its detrimental effects. figures also reveal that, out of 9624 women now residing in ireland who originally came from countries that practice fgm, 26.9% have undergone a form of female genital mutilation. the enactment of a law to place an outright ban on fgm is critical to the elimination of this.
mr president, the recycling sector in the european union has a turnover of eur 24 billion and employs about 500 000 people. it is made up of 60 000 companies and the eu has around 50% of the world’s share of the waste and recycling industries. however, this sector is now in crisis as a result of the collapse in the price of recycled materials on world markets, and it is becoming economically unviable for waste businesses to continue to operate. given the importance of this sector for sustainable consumption and production in the eu, i would like to urge the commission to implement without delay the recommendations set out in the report by its own taskforce on recycling, which was compiled during the preparation of the communication entitled ‘a lead market initiative for europe’.
rapporteur. − mr president, the food facility began as a proposal from the commission, in the light of the rising food prices that provoked riots in some countries, to use eur 1 billion in leftover agricultural subsidy money to relieve the situation in developing countries through agricultural inputs and emergency safety nets. the money was, in this form, expected to be wholly additional to existing development funds. now, five months later, we have our billion, but it is in an entirely different form than that originally envisaged. two fridays ago, i attended the budget conciliation meeting, with my colleagues from the committee on budgets and the council, where we were finally able to reach a compromise over the funding of the food facility regulation. the last sticking points were then ironed out on the following monday at a trialogue between parliament, commission and council. the final compromise funding looks like this: eur 1 billion to be financed over a period of three years, 2008-2010, via the flexibility instrument accounting for eur 420 million; redeployment, with heading 4, ‘external actions’, giving another eur 240 million; and the increase of the emergency aid reserve by eur 240 million for 2008. this increase requires a revision of the interinstitutional agreement. this amount is additional to another eur 100 million used from the existing emergency aid reserve. as the emergency aid reserve is made up of contributions by the member states, the top-up of funding will only be additional if the member states do not compensate for their contributions by a corresponding reduction of the national budgets. it has been suggested that there are noises of dissatisfaction from the committee on foreign affairs and others about the part-financing of this from the stability fund. the foreign affairs committee may be unhappy about this but it was probably about the best deal that could be done in the circumstances. although i support the compromise we have now reached, i have made a point of mentioning the shortcomings of the process and the outcome, both in the interests of honesty and to highlight – as i have done on previous occasions – the ludicrous situation where governments across the globe are producing multiple billions of dollars to bail out banks but have to search their souls to find, between 27 member states and the budget of this union, eur 1 billion for the poorest people in the world. i think we have done the best we could have done in a hundred days. we have found the money and we have put the regulation together, but it is not a totally additional billion. the content of this report includes the fact that the compromise text has already been accepted by all member states in coreper, and that essential elements from my report and the amendments from my colleagues on the committee on development are in it. the regulation is limited in time. it now runs until the end of 2010. it concentrates on tackling the short-term crisis; its objectives are to boost agricultural production. it opposes the dispersion of funds by confining its use to a limited list of high-priority countries. it also widens the scope of possible implementing organisations and ensures parliamentary accountability. there are two statements appended to the regulation which help to ensure its proper implementation. at the end of the day, i think we have done the best we can between council, parliament and commission. we have done it in a hundred days. we have brought the law before parliament. we will vote on it tomorrow. it is already agreed. we have found the money. i would like, in that context, to pay tribute to the cooperation we received from the council and the commission, particularly from commissioner michel, who really did want this money to be additional. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the development committee, particularly guido van hecken and anne mclauchlan and to thank, in my office, eoin ó seanáin and oliver o’callaghan, who were very helpful in all of this. i think at the end of the day that it is a good day’s work and the best we could have done.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr mitchell for his report. i welcome the creation of this food facility for the world’s poorest farmers which has finally been agreed after long negotiations. some members of the council were not willing to provide unspent agricultural money to support developing countries. while one sixth of the world’s population is now going hungry, certain member states of the european council held back (though a majority of members were in favour of using the cap), citing a fear of setting precedents as their tenuous justification. the money has been found elsewhere, being phased over three years from 2008 to 2010 instead of over a two-year period. sadly this money was most needed a few months ago when food prices were soaring. food prices are no longer soaring in some of those same countries. since food prices began to increase, the number of people going hungry has risen to nearly one billion. this year 100 million people were driven into poverty as a result of the food and fuel crisis, and that number continues to grow. people in developing countries spend up to 80% of their income on food, underlining the reason why the price of food must remain accessible. the food facility will contribute to solving some short-term needs by providing agriculture inputs and strengthening safety nets. however, a new food crisis will be imminent unless eu member states and other rich countries address the structural problems that fuelled the food crisis.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all those involved in this report and this very significant achievement: the rapporteur gay mitchell, all the political groups – including my own – and commissioner michel. food prices and the collapsing global economy will have devastating effects on people in developing countries. it has been estimated that, for every 1% drop in the world gnp, 40 million more people will be driven into poverty. consequently, it is extremely important that this proposal to cope with soaring food prices is implemented with urgency. the developing world is not the author of the current financial and economic crisis. if we are to avoid condemning another generation of people to abject poverty and hunger, we must avoid short-sighted penny-pinching in the field of development aid. as has already been pointed out, the figure of eur 1 billion may seem large, but it is trifling compared to the amount of money we are pumping into banks and stimulus packages. i urge that this report be implemented as quickly as possible.
rapporteur. − madam president, i thank the commissioner and the chairman, and the other members who spoke, for their kind words about my contribution to this report. i would also like to thank reimer böge for his work in the committee on budgets in facilitating it and my shadow rapporteur, thijs berman, who was very supportive and helpful in seeing it through. in the developing world, 78 children per thousand die at birth. in the european union the figure is 5 per thousand on average. it used to be 45 per thousand just after the second world war in ireland. we have got it down to 78 in the developing world, and we can get it down again to what used to be the rate in ireland, and to what now is the rate in ireland, with determination and commitment. if they get past birth, two million of those children will die before the age of five for lack of vaccines that have been available in the west for over 30 years. in that context, and when you see the hunger that those children will face, the lack of educational opportunity and the absence of health facilities, some of the contributions made here this evening bordered on inhumanity. members playing to their national galleries at the expense of those people is obscene, and it is time that this was said very clearly. by 2050, the population of this planet will have increased from some 6 billion to some 8 billion. ninety percent of those people will be born into what is now the developing world. if those people continue to exist in their present conditions, it will be the cause of the third conflagration on this planet, causing huge migration and huge problems. on the other hand, if we invest and work with those people in solidarity, they will be our trading partners. these are the options facing us and that is why i think it is important that we can respond with a facility such as this.
mr president, i agree with the view that politicians everywhere are afraid of long-term decisions because of short-term effects. as david puttnam said recently in dublin, the political establishment is by nature conservative and afraid of sudden change at local, regional and national level – and, i would add, also at european level. on climate legislation we have no choice. as politicians we owe it to our communities, to all communities, to future communities, to stand up and be counted. the science is a given. we know what we have to do: it is a year since the commission adopted the climate and energy package, and much work has been done. the french presidency has made it a priority, and together we have been working hard to deliver a good deal by the end of the year; what was a possibility is now becoming a probability. having witnessed first-hand many frustrating cops in recent years, i have always believed in the need for europe to drive this process forward, as we did in bali, and to deliver in time for the cop 15 in copenhagen. but be warned: we will not just ‘sign off’ on any deal. i have made this very clear to the french presidency, and there is a clear understanding that the european parliament will not be presented with a fait accompli. and parliament is not leaving it up to the heads of state and government to ‘sign off’. make no mistake about that. any signing off will be done at a subsequent trialogue between the french presidency and the european parliament. i would, however, just add – and i would ask minister borloo to deliver on this, and make it very clear to president sarkozy – that a generous percentage of the auction revenues should be earmarked for adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, because legislation without generous financing will not result in a global agreement. make no mistake about that. yes, as we discuss and debate our post-2012 package against a backdrop of serious global economic recession and financial crisis, we will need all the incisive governance, entrepreneurial flair and scientific innovation that we can muster. investment, jobs, salaries, consumption and saving our planet are all synonymous, and we will depend on our ability to switch from carbon-spewing fossil fuels to more sustainable energy sources, and to bring all our colleagues around the world to the un table with us.
madam president, climate change can no longer be viewed rigidly in environmental terms, but must instead be mainstreamed as a cross-cutting concept through varying policy areas, including development and human rights. it is a problem not just of the future but of the present. climate change is attacking the natural resource base of poor communities, including their land and water reserves, and people are subsequently being forced to migrate for survival. such migration flows can have destabilising consequences and can threaten the overall internal security of a particular country, region or border area. i visited the chad/sudanese border area this year as a member of the committee on foreign affairs. i saw the devastation caused by war and food shortages. climate change will make situations like this worse. unfortunately, those most at risk are the least culpable in creating this situation. therefore i am delighted to see my colleagues in parliament taking the lead on this matter. the eu, the us and other world powers need to act.
in writing. − mep stevenson's report on the management of the herring stock on the west coast of scotland presents a multi-annual plan. this is based on existing north sea herring agreements currently agreed with norway, to preserve a sustainable fisheries industry by placing upper and lower limits depending on the total stock size. stecf and ices have advised that a sustainable fishery can be maintained by managing annual mortality (measure of catches) at 0.25 when the stock size is above 75,000 tonnes and at 0.20 when the stock size falls below 75,000 tonnes, but remains above 50,000 tonnes. according to the commission's proposal, should the size of the spawning stock fall below 50, 000 tonnes, a complete restriction on herring catches becomes effective, enabling the repopulation and regeneration and maintenance of the stock, ensuring the livelihood and future of the fishing industry which depends on a maintained fish stock. ireland is directly involved in this proposal, with irish territorial waters in the north west area of donegal falling into the zone in question. in order to preserve the fisheries industry, it is imperative that implementation of this report should begin as soon as possible to minimise disruption for fisheries.
in writing. − i welcome my colleague's report on maintenance obligations which aims to assist the recovery of maintenance payments within the european union. this regulation seeks to enable a creditor to obtain an enforcement order for payment - which is capable of circulation without obstacles in the european union area of justice - more easily, quickly and free of charge in most instances. this will consequently enable regular payments of the amount due and make maintenance obligations from one member state applicable in another. doing so will simplify the lives of eu citizens and provide additional support through increased member states cooperation.
in writing. − mep mitchell presented a plan which articulates a collective community response to the rising and volatile costs of food in developing countries by providing guidelines for rapid responses and safety net procedures for forthcoming harvests. the facility also seeks to provide structural long term support, which is graduated and differentiated according to the needs and requirements of each situation. it provides for 1 billion euros to be allocated until 2010, according to strictly regulated criteria. food security provides a basis for development of all kinds, and combating hunger worldwide is a complex but essential question for which we urgently need to find a solution for. i am delighted to support mep mitchell's report.
i scríbhinn. − is cinnte gur gá dúinn aghaidh agus aird a thabhairt ar an dúshlán ollmhór atá ann an córas airgeadais a cobhsú agus a leasú. ach tá géardhualgas orainne, atá mar ionadaithe ar ghnáthmhuintir ár dtíortha, díriú freisin ar an “bhfíorgheilleagar”, mar a thugtar air. tá muintir na heorpa ag fulaingt faoi láthair, agus sinn i lár géarchéime geilleagraí. bheadh sé éasca cloí go hiomlán le polasaithe coimeádacha ag an am seo, polasaithe a bheadh dírithe ar an gcóras airgeadais a cobhsú amháin. ina ionad sin, áfach, caithfimid díriú ar an ngeilleagar a atógáil ón mbun aníos. in iarthar na héireann, tá thart ar 70% den lucht oibre fostaithe ag gnóthais bheaga. is iad na gnóthais bheaga seo cuisle eacnamaíochta iarthar na héireann. ní amháin gur gá dúinn na gnóthais seo a chosaint, ach caithfimid fiontraíocht, fás agus forbairt san earnáil seo a spreagadh chomh maith. chuige sin, fearaim fíorfháilte roimh na tionscnaimh atá á seoladh ag institiúidí éireannacha agus eorpacha le déanaí chun tacaíocht a thabhairt d’earnáil na ngnóthas beag. glaoim ar na hearnálacha príobháideacha agus airgeadais agus ar an lucht déanta beartas leanacht orthu agus cur leis na tionscnaimh seo.
in writing. − i warmly welcome ms. gurmai's report which does much to document the progress of women's rights in the western balkans. the ideal of gender equality is one to which we, as parliamentarians, must be fully committed and do all in our power to support. the establishment of equal relations between men and women is essential to securing full human rights and i trust that this will advance further in the context of meeting the acquis. i note with concern the disproportionate dangers to which women are exposed with regard to domestic violence, trafficking and forced prostitution. i fully support issues related to combating trafficking in human beings and discrimination against roma women, and would look most favourably on the aggressive tackling by each of the countries of the western balkans.
in writing. − the report presented by mep kinderman has an eu wide cormorant management plan as its main subject. the cormorant feeds exclusively on fish and because of it large population (estimated at 1.8 million in europe) its impact on local fish stocks, both wild and in aquaculture developments, is considerable. the cormorant is covered by the birds directive and there has been much discussion in recent years on how to resolve the conflict of considerable impact on fisheries. some member states have adopted individual plans, but i am of the opinion, like the rapporteur, that the only effective solution is an eu wide cormorant management plan, for example, research into immuno contraception?
mr president, an italian colleague mentioned the extent of food waste in italy as being a big problem, and certainly the issue of food waste and surplus food going back into the food chain is a problem which hit ireland in the last seven days. it showed that if we do not have proper controls over every aspect of the food chain, not just from farm to fork but from fork back to farm, we can have huge problems. the cost to the irish state is eur 180 million, and we are grateful for eu solidarity in relation to the availability of a private storage aid scheme, but we need to know what exactly went wrong in the food chain in ireland which allowed an ingredient with dioxins in it to be fed to animals. we are grateful that the problem has been resolved, but we need to know how it happened so that we can prevent it from happening in future. if we cannot control what is going into the animal feed chain in terms of food or surplus waste, then we will have to stop it. we need to control home mixing and we need country of origin labelling to guarantee to our consumers the meats they are eating.
mr president, i welcome the entry into force of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities on 2 december 2008. the european community is a co-signatory of this convention. it provides protection for 50 million eu citizens with disabilities, such as amputees. however, ireland is one of the member states in the european union where a person who loses a limb has to fund, from his or her own resources or by insurance, the purchase of a prosthetic replacement. despite the entry into force of the convention, the irish government made no provision in the recent budget for aiding amputees in funding prosthetic replacements. i condemn this careless disregard for people with such a serious disability, and i call on the commission to draw up guidelines so that member states are obliged to provide adequate funding for such persons with disabilities.
mr president, tonight we are discussing a very important piece of legislation and our discussion and our vote in this parliament will send a very clear message to workers and to families across the eu. in ireland, we have a question we ask when we are discussing social policy and that question is: are we closer to boston or berlin? well, in the context of tonight’s discussion, we need to be closer to berlin – that is, if berlin or indeed paris can deliver a real advancement for the health and safety of workers. i listened to mrs létard and she asked us to behave responsibly, and i believe mr cercas has done just that. at the council meeting last week in the discussion of the lisbon treaty, a commitment was given by the council to strengthen workers’ rights. the council and parliament now have an opportunity to do just that. furthermore, we often speak in parliament about work/life balance and everybody nods their head in agreement. once again we have an opportunity to help ensure work/life balance for europe’s citizens. and remember, as already mentioned by mr silva peneda, 48 hours per week is eight hours per day, six days per week. mr bushill-matthews spoke of a woman working 12 hours per day, seven days per week as if that were acceptable. it is totally unacceptable and we should not be complicit in this type of exploitation. as i said earlier, tonight’s debate and our vote on this report will send a clear signal to the citizens of europe. we need to send a clear message that social europe is alive and well.
mr president, i support the cercas package. i think the bottom line on this debate is that human beings are social beings: they are not machines and they should not be treated as such in the workplace. a person applying to an employer for a job has no freedom to refuse to sign a form saying they are denying themselves the right to the coverage of the working time directive, so to argue that abolishing the opt-out is in some way an attack on freedom is not right: it is actually an attack on the abuse of an employee who needs to work in order to live. in my view, the current opt-out in use in 14 member states is an attack on the idea of building europe on the basis of common decent working and living conditions, and we must not allow that to happen.
in writing. – the debate on the organisation of working time is complex. but the most difficult issues are the future of the opt-out and the treatment of on-call time. in the simap and jaeger cases the european court of justice interpreted the definition of working time in the original working time directive to include the inactive part of on-call time when an employee is not working but resting. in the council agreement of 9 and 10 june 2008, the inactive part of on-call time is not regarded as working time, unless national law/practice/collective agreements or agreements between the social partners provide otherwise. under the council agreement, the possibility for an employee to opt out of the maximum average working week of 48 hours, provided for in the original working time directive, is subject to more stringent conditions in order to protect the health and safety of workers. employees will not be required to work in excess of 60 hours a week averaged over three months, or 65 hours a week averaged over three months, when the inactive part of on-call time is regarded as working time. ireland has never used the opt-out, so a stricter implementation of the available opt-out is both welcome and necessary.
mr president, i welcome the first-reading agreement on the recasting of the european works council, which was due in no small way to the skill of our shadow rapporteur, mr cremers. we are in a deepening economic crisis, which is a crisis of the system and not just in the system. ‘business as usual’ is not possible, and both employers and governments must accept that, in this time of crisis, workers must have a greater say in what is happening at their workplace. any other approach will not be acceptable. blind faith in untrammelled markets and competition has failed abysmally, and now is the time for europe to be more courageous in creating a new social contract between workers and businesses, and indeed for member states and europe to build a new social market economy, as provided for in the lisbon treaty.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is i dtréimhse na nollag is mó a bhíonn gnó na mbréagán agus is mó a bhíonn déantúsóirí bréagán gnóthach. is aisteach an rud é gurb iad ár bpáistí, an dream is leochailí sa chomhluadar, a bhíonn i gcontúirt go minic ó tháirgí nach bhfuil suas go caighdeáin, táirgí a thagann ó i bhfad ó bhaile agus nach bhfuil fhios againn go minic cén chaoi a deineadh iad nó céard a bhíonn iontu. tugadh ar ais níos mó ná 22 milliún bréagán ar fud an domhain le 5 bliana anuas. i mó thir féin, in éirinn, tugadh ar ais 120 000 bréagán sa tréimhse sin. is cúis bhuartha é go dtagann bréagáin atá á ndíol in éirinn i bhfad ó bhaile agus nach bhfuil cinnteacht ar bith ann maidir lena gcaighdeáin. caithfear é seo a stopadh. is feabhas é an treoir seo ach níl ann ach tús. caithfear leanacht ar aghaidh agus a chinntiú go bhfuil na táirgí seo sábháilte.
mr president, i welcome the outcome of the trialogue negotiations and i believe that the text we will be voting on is a balanced and positive outcome for all. toy safety is of utmost importance now and at all times of the year, for our children’s health and safety is at stake. i applaud the stringency of the new measures in the current proposal, such as the ban on cmr and allergenic fragrances. i also welcome the balanced nature of the proposal. there are over 2 000 toy manufacturers in the eu. the vast majority are extremely careful that a product they put on the market is safe. they should not have to suffer because of the low standards adopted by a small minority or the low standards applied by some importers and distributors. what recent scare stories have taught us is not to overreact and ban some toys altogether, but rather to ensure that we step up our enforcement of rules already in place. i believe this text represents such a balance and, therefore, i would like to commend my colleague, ms thyssen, and all who have worked to make this a successful directive.
mr president, i am so pleased that the report on the city guide and business directories has received enormous support, and i congratulate the rapporteur on the work. this is an issue which arose from the ground and which parliament has responded to. it involves individuals, clubs, schools and businesses being ripped off by companies which thrive on a lack of coordination. i hope that the vote today will bring the message that people should be very careful about signing and that parliament is listening to their concerns, and that we will be demanding that action be taken in member states and at european level which stops the practice of extracting money from businesses under false pretences. this is a very good day for simon busuttil, the rapporteur, and a very good day too for the committee on petitions, which has pushed this issue at every step. i look forward to reporting back to my constituents – the hundreds of them who have contacted me about this – and reporting on real progress here.
in writing. − the recast version of the european works council directive provides for increased information and better consultation procedures for workers within the eu and i would like to publically support it. the proposal aims to amend the council directive 94/95/ec of 22 september 1994 for the purpose of informing and consulting employees. the subsequent discussions with social partners combined with the reviewed recast versions provide an improved structure for increased dialogue between employers and employees, allowing for in depth assessments of proposed changes, and means for workers representatives to promote their interests. i support the introduction of a tri-annual review of the directive post its implementation to ensure that it remains responsive and adequate for its purpose.
in writing. − i supported mep ruhle's proposal as part of the commission adopted defence package from december 2007. the proposal entails the creation of a transparent market in the eu for defence equipment, replacing the existing 27 separate licensing regimes and harmonizing the licensing requirements for the transfer of these products between member states. this modification of the control regime which currently exists brings not only more transparency, but strengthens existing practices and procedures, while saving billions on compliance costs. administrative reform of this kind increases the clarity and simplicity of the procedures concerned, strengthening the internal market while maintaining control over subsequent export outside the eu. the introduction of general and global licenses, which remain defined by each member state, provides a decent balance between national and community interests.
in writing. − i welcome mep groote's report on the regulation of motor vehicles and engines with respect to curbing emissions as a step forward in ameliorating air quality across europe and combating climate change. the introduction of community wide technical rules for trucks, lorries and buses will provide an effective means of tackling pollution. the proposed reduction of nitrogen oxides by 80% and of particulate matter by 66% represent considerable progress and brings us closer in line to levels similar to those established in the us. the report also establishes a clearer system of legislation as directives will be replaced by directly applicable regulations. as rapporteur on eu - ets, i am only too aware of the steps we need to take to combat climate change; the combined harmonization and reduction of emissions proposed in the report are issues i fully support.
a uachtaráin, ba chruinniú an-dearfach é cruinniú mullaigh cheannairí an aontas eorpaigh an tseachtain seo caite ó thaobh na héireann agus na heorpa de. tá an plean eorpach don aisghabháil eacnamaíochta, ar a bhfuil luach eur 200 billiún, formheasta ag an gcomhairle eorpach. it is essential that, when we look at the results of the european council, we give credit where credit is due. finding solutions and compromises to what were – or appeared to be – intractable problems suddenly arose like the cream rising to the top of milk. i congratulate you, president sarkozy, on your efforts, including with regard to ireland. we greatly appreciate the compromise that has been reached to allow for a second decision from the irish people with regard to the lisbon treaty. i would like very briefly to point out to certain colleagues who spoke today and yesterday on what i am attributed as having said in prague last week. firstly, i never mentioned my father, as was indicated in the transcript that president klaus released. secondly, i never said that the irish wished for europe. i said that it was up to the irish people to determine what will happen with the lisbon treaty. in the light of our experience over the last six months in particular, what is really needed, as we move forward, is a europe that cooperates, coordinates and works together to achieve common goals on a basis of understanding and tolerance for the differing opinions and the different economic cycles that exist within the european union. monsieur le président, mon français est très nul, pardonnez-moi. votre présidence a reconstruit le grand projet européen, le projet d'une union européenne au grand cœur, fondée sur l'égalité et l'effort, en europe et aussi dans le monde. merci et bonne chance! (applaudissements)
mr president, i would like to take the opportunity to offer some friendly advice, because many irish voters are impatient with the treaty debate. a poll two weeks ago showed that an overwhelming number of voters do not want a second referendum. they have made their decision and it makes no sense to them to continue the debate in the middle of a global economic meltdown. they are concerned with unemployment and with budget cuts that are affecting the most vulnerable. they feel alone in these problems, with their leaders chasing the lisbon phantom. it is especially annoying because the issues that brought about the ‘no’ vote, starting with the lack of democracy in the treaty itself, have not been addressed; rather we have been told that the treaty will remain unchanged and that what is offered is cosmetic. we are an island nation, yet our fish and fishing industry are vanishing. pro-life people remain concerned about the destruction of embryos in research funded by the eu. in voting ‘no’, voters voted to protect their jobs, their farms, their families and their constitution. you talk about uniting europe, but i put to you that what should unite us is democracy and what divides us is lisbon.
mr president, the irish ‘no’ to lisbon was never just an irish issue: it needed to be dealt with as a european issue, and that is what has happened. one of the responsibilities of any politician is to find solutions. the irish government listened to the concerns of the irish people and, in partnership with their european colleagues, has drawn up a number of legal guarantees that will address the core concerns of irish citizens. subject to satisfactory conclusions, the irish government will run a second referendum, and that is the essence of democracy: politicians working to produce a solution and then asking the people for their consent. however, i have a very strong word of warning: we must not, again, underestimate the forces at play here. we must pay very careful attention to those who are trying to influence the outcome and those who are funding part of the ‘no’ campaign. we must fully understand that some on the ‘no’ side, who profess to be pro-european, want to see an unravelling of the eu and its institutions. ireland was and will be a battleground for the heart and soul of europe. that is what is at stake – nothing less – and it is worth all our cooperation, all our commitment and all our efforts. to those, like nigel farage, who lecture us on democracy and others who say that the people of europe, given a chance in a direct vote, would say ‘no’ to lisbon, i want to say: you have neglected to check the facts and figures. the results from five direct votes – four on the constitution and one on lisbon – have yielded 27 million eu citizens voting ‘yes’ and 23 million voting ‘no’, so the majority of eu citizens who have voted directly have voted ‘yes’. finally, even though mr sarkozy has left, i want to thank him for his energy, his commitment to the eu and his efforts to find solutions to difficult problems.
mr president, the irish government has managed to spin a successful story detailing its valiant efforts to defend the rights of the irish electorate at the recent european council summit. it has championed the will of the people of ireland in brussels and has secured legally binding assurances on all sensitive issues for ireland. the key point is this: the concerns expressed during the lisbon referendum in relation to taxation, military neutrality and abortion were largely based on misinformation. the reality is that either these issues are unaffected by the lisbon treaty or protocols safeguarding ireland’s position are already attached. for example, protocol 35 to the present lisbon treaty protects ireland’s stance on abortion. my party, fine gael, has recently made a number of concrete suggestions, following the subcommittee’s report on its analysis of the irish ‘no’. with these proposals fine gael is attempting to address the root causes of the irish ‘no’. legal assurances will not be enough for the irish to vote ‘yes’ in the autumn of next year. there must also be a meaningful engagement with the irish people, to rebuild understanding of and support for the european process. voter research after the referendum revealed a very low level of public understanding of the role and functions of the european union. this disengagement is a major challenge for both the european union itself and for the national political system and should not be underestimated again by the irish government. among our suggestions we propose a constitutional change to allow future international treaties to be referred to the irish supreme court when they are agreed, to establish which provisions should be put to the irish people. such a mechanism would tease out the issues in need of debate in ireland, would let the irish electorate have their say and would finally allow ireland to ratify the spirit of such treaties overall without stalling progress for other concerned parties. we also propose the establishment of a new constitutional office of european union citizens’ officer. the appointee would act as an independent advisory officer on all aspects of eu legislation, including its transposition into irish law. this individual would be responsible for providing impartial information on the facts about european issues, including when conflicting arguments arise.
mr president, i welcome the decisions on the lisbon treaty by the european council. unsurprisingly, the europhobic ‘no’ campaigners continue to prattle on with their threadbare arguments, reflected here today by ms de brún, ms sinnott and mr farage. the right of each member state to nominate a commissioner has been secured; the guarantees have been negotiated to address other concerns, the content and nature of which have still to be negotiated. workers’ rights issues arising from the laval and other judgments must be comprehensively addressed. but these ecj judgments are based on the posting of workers directive, not the lisbon treaty; that is the directive that needs not only to be amended but also comprehensively implemented by the member states. the content of the guarantees has to satisfy the broad majority of the irish and european citizenship. they must not be used to freeze social progress in ireland or europe or to deny any of us the benefits of the charter of fundamental rights. this parliament and all politicians in ireland have a responsibility to participate in shaping the content of those guarantees and to ensure that the conclusions are not regressive.
mr president, i fully support the last statement by tunne kelam. it was an important summit with an important agenda. i would like to acknowledge and thank the french presidency for its untiring work on the recovery package and the climate and energy package. but for now i would like to concentrate on a third important agenda item. last week at the summit, our taoiseach and minister for foreign affairs secured a positive response from all the other heads of government to the concerns expressed on 12 june 2008 by a majority of irish voters when they said ‘no’ to the question of ratifying the lisbon treaty. to those member states which had doubts about aspects of what we were seeking, as our minister martin put it, i thank you for making the effort to accommodate us, with a commissioner all round and legal guarantees on taxation, neutrality, the right to life, education and the family. there will still be those who continue to argue against a second referendum. however, the majority of the irish continue to acknowledge and fully appreciate our eu membership, particularly at this time of unprecedented global economic difficulty, when marginalisation and loss of influence cannot be an option for us and when unfettered access to the single market of 500 million consumers is critical for irish exports – including our delicious pig meat by the way – so we can trade our way back into growth. there is a ‘but’ and that is that our increasingly hapless and rudderless government will have to do what it failed to do in june, which is to put its collective shoulder to the wheel and explain the treaty, its purpose and its benefits. if not, its members’ realisation that they will otherwise be out of the door will perhaps their concentrate minds.
mr president, i would just like to say that president sarkozy has a great deal to answer for because the irish times today is reporting that the whirlwind six-month tenure as eu president is coming to an end, leaving diplomats and journalists in dire need of a holiday! can i also add that as christmas approaches we all need a holiday, not least those of us who are approaching a european election and a second referendum on the lisbon treaty. on that issue there will be much debate into the future. the problem for ireland is not so much the contents of the treaty – we know that from the first vote – it is in dealing with the issues that people have concerns about, and the council has done that. what the council cannot do for ireland is convince the public who are disaffected by their government at the moment to support this treaty. it rests, therefore, on those of us who fully back the treaty and the legal arrangements which we hope will be in place to canvas widely for the values that are in the treaty and to divide the issues of national concern from those at european level. it will be a tough job, i think you know that, but with the support of this house it can be done.
rapporteur. − mr president, the cost of reducing carbon emissions and decoupling our economies from our fossil fuel dependency will be about 1% of gdp if we act and act decisively over the next 10 years. if we postpone the decisions that we as politicians have been told by peer review scientists are essential to reach the 2°c maximum increase in global temperature, the cost will be at least 10% of gdp by 2020 and increase steeply as environmental tipping points will be tracked by financial ones. yes, energy-efficient and resource-efficient industries are also economically efficient and, yes, revolutionary change in the energy sector is what we need. we have absolutely no choice at all on that matter. the eu is the only region in the world that currently has a functioning emissions trading system and which has put a price on carbon and which is committed to a 20% unilateral reduction in our co2 emissions. effectively we have been the pilot project for the rest of the world, for other regions. those other regions were developing their cap-and-trade systems and i look forward to the new us administration’s proposal based on president-elect obama’s election manifesto early in the new year. it was confirmed to us by senator john kerry last week in poznań that it would be no later. i also welcome today’s draft ets proposal from the australian government, using our ets as a template, and i sincerely wish them well also. i welcome the resolve and intent of the chinese, the indians and so many other countries in the industrialised and less-developed parts of the world to achieve the target of a serious reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, as opposed to business as usual. it has been almost a year since the commission adopted the climate and energy package and we have come a long way in those 11 months. the french presidency announced in july that this package would be their priority, and we have been working hard to deliver a deal together by the end of this year. we are now within sight of the finishing line. exceptional circumstances called for exceptional measures. all those involved in the eu institutions have clearly understood the need for europe to drive this process forward and deliver it in time for the 15th meeting of the united nations convention on climate change next year in copenhagen. first-reading agreements, particularly on such complicated and technical issues, must not become the norm. i have great sympathy for colleagues who are criticising the timetable, as distinct from the substance of what we do. i am quite sure that, if the subject matter was otherwise, i would probably find myself agreeing with a lot of what they say. but in this instance we all know why. we have no choice; we know why the timetable is as it is. the preparations for reaching the all-important international deal have already begun and the signing off of this climate package would restate the eu’s strong commitments to its targets and to living up to its responsibility to the developing world. i have reiterated many times to the french presidency and there has always been a clear understanding between us that we would never let parliament be presented with a fait accompli from the european summit. that was clear leading up to it. as rapporteur of the review of the european union’s emissions trading system i would like to acknowledge the fact that the french presidency and the excellent team led by ambassador léglise-costa understood that from day one. the issues that went in square brackets to the summit were within the parameters of what would have been acceptable to the european parliament and to myself as rapporteur for the lead committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. so, for colleagues who doubt that codecision has been honoured, not only in the spirit of the law but in the letter of the law, let me assure them there were no surprises in what came back from the summit because all the issues and the parameters had been thoroughly thrashed out in five or six trialogues in advance of the summit.
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to make a few quick points. the environmental integrity of the excellent original proposal stands up, especially in a minus 30% scenario. there will be no point us going to copenhagen with our legislation unless it is accompanied by serious funds next december – over to you, commission. the ccs agreement on 300 million allowances is possibly transformational in this whole debate on carbon dioxide reductions if the technology is proven through the 12 plants in question. the agreement we have on the table now gives the eu a clear mandate to negotiate with third countries in the run-up to next year’s agreement. we cannot afford to fail, as the finger of history will indict us for reneging on our responsibility as a generation of political leaders who knew the problem, who knew the peer-reviewed science, but failed to act. for some my final report goes too far; for others it does not go far enough. but even with benchmark-free allowances, the reduction in targets will not be easy for industry. let us not make the best the enemy of the good. this, considering all, is a good result. it is the best in the world, after all, as it is the only ets in the world to date. i invite the us and australia to do better and to embarrass us in the eu into upping our game in copenhagen next year.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá rialtais na mballstát uile neirbhíseach agus iad ag obair ar an gcóras airgeadais aonair eorpach. ba thogra ollmhór a bhí i gceist agus bhí imní orthu faoin modh oibre agus faoi na torthaí a bheadh air. baineann 320 milliún duine úsáid as córas an euro chuile lá anois. tá níos mó ná deich mbliana imithe ó shin i leith. tá na ballstáit go léir ag tabhairt anois faoi thogra ollmhór eile chun todhchaí an chomhshaoil a chosaint. beidh ar chuile dhuine gníomhú sa togra seo. tá orainn uile an chothromaíocht idir an comhshaol agus an eacnamaíocht a chinntiú. caithfear comhlachtaí a chosaint freisin toisc go bhfuil baol ann go mbogfaidh siad ó thír go tír. is deis é an dúshlán seo chun tabhairt faoi thionsclaíocht ghlas agus chun fostaíocht a mhéadú. ní mór do na ballstáit uile béim níos mó a chur ar thaighde agus ar fhorbairt as seo amach. táim an-sásta go bhfuil aird tugtha ar riachtanais na héireann maidir le cúrsaí talmhaíochta de. seasfaidh an socrú speisialta seo, fiú má dhéantar socrú idirnáisiúnta eile. tabharfaidh an socrú cead d’éirinn a táirgeadh astaíochtaí gáis a chur ar neamhní trí thogra foraoiseachta a fhorbairt. tá plean náisiúnta na foraoiseachta seo thar a bheith tábhachtach agus lárnach don phrótacal kyoto. ach beidh cosaint ann d’fheirmeoirí freisin, rud atá an-tábhachtach ar fad.
mr president, the climate and energy package, especially in the reduction of greenhouse gases, is hailed as a triumphant step and i agree that this effort reflects a strong will to tackle the issue of climate change. however, there is a move to criticise my country and new zealand for the high level of emissions from agriculture. both have a small human population and a large number of livestock which skew the emissions figures. do we not realise that irish and new zealand agriculture feeds the world far beyond its borders? talk of forcing these countries to reduce their herds is crazy in terms of food security and climate change. these are the countries that raise their herds most sustainably based on grass. instead we need to foster r&d to find ways – different feeding, different growth schedules – to reduce animal emissions where we can, not destroy the animals.
mr president, i agree that we cannot ignore the reality of coal and the size of reserves and the dependence on coal in many member states and across the world: russian, china, australia, the united states. as we drive renewable technologies, carbon sequestration technologies must go hand-in-hand. the commission’s proposal of two years ago of up to 12 ccs plants had awaited funding to date. i was very pleased with the agreement in relation to my report on 300 million allowances for driving the potential of this technology. my original, rather modest proposal, using the generous new installations reserve, was so enthusiastically supported by mr davies and other colleagues that i amended my own report with significantly higher figures. thank you to the presidency, thank you to the commission, thank you to mr davies, ms mcavan and colleagues for your support on this point. as we rapidly exhaust our planet’s capacity to absorb co2 through biological sequestration, we look to our own ingenuity with new sequestration technologies, particularly the potentially transforming technology of ccs, if through these 12 projects the environmental integrity and commercial viability of these processes is proven.
mr president, much attention is currently being focused on the technology side of mitigating the effects of climate change through the development of alternative fuels. i express my congratulations on this effort and would like to contribute to this debate. i would like to call attention to algae oil, which can be converted to a fuel as a replacement for fossil fuel oil. it can be considered a win-win type of fuel because it absorbs co2 throughout its production therefore making it a carbon positive source of energy. what is more, contrary to increasingly controversial biofuels, it does not displace food production. indeed, it can be grown in natural ponds or artificial structures. it is also win-win because it is particularly suitable for production in coastal communities, where the trouble in the fishing industry is making it necessary for us to find new industries. given these facts, i urge the commission to take algae oil very seriously. it also has the advantage of being a high-energy, low-weight fuel and one of the few that promises to be able to replace rocket fuel and air fuels.
mr president, the global economy has been turned upside down in the past few months. we are now left with an appalling vista of insolvency, bankruptcies, nationalisations, the massive destruction of wealth, and stock market write-down. the core institutions of our financial infrastructure have been shaken to their core. our banks are on their knees, engaged in begging-bowl pleading to national governments. national governments cannot turn a blind eye due to the strategic importance of banks in oiling the wheels of the real economy. it is shocking and frightening to see that one irish bank, for example, has lost 97% of its value in the past few months alone. deposit-guarantee schemes have therefore been of crucial importance in protecting investors from the worst of the financial crisis currently assailing the world economy. the figure of eur 100 000 is psychologically as well as economically important, as it reassures investors that their life savings are not under threat. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr ehler, on his work, and i welcome in particular the increase in scope to include guarantees for smes. smes are our main hope and should be our priority as we look towards the light at the end of the tunnel, as we look to recover quickly from the current recession. i also echo the call for a more coordinated response in future. the irish government acted unilaterally to guarantee irish banks. in future, there should be an official instrument in place to ensure better coordination between member states. to conclude, on a broader note, we must not forget the immense importance of our close economic integration here in the eu and in particular in the euro zone, which has sheltered us from the gale-force winds of the financial crisis. this point is especially relevant for smaller member states such as ireland. we need only look north to our island neighbours, iceland, to see the havoc that can be caused by standing alone in splendid isolation: its currency has collapsed and its economy is in ruins. there is no guarantee that this would not have happened if ireland and other smaller member states had not been in the euro zone.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh na moltaí atá déanta i ndréachtbhuiséad an aontais eorpaigh don bhliain seo chugainn. tugaim tacaíocht go háirithe don mholadh atá ann do phróiséas síochána thuaisceart éireann. tá tacaíocht airgid á cur ar fáil don chlár síocháin iii agus don chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn. is cúis áthais freisin é go bhfuil an búiséad ag tabhairt tacaíocht airgid don phróiséas síochána i gceantar na mbalcán agus sa phalaistín. tabharfaidh an taontas eorpach cúnamh chomh maith d’atógáil na seoirsia, rud a léiríonn gurb é an taontas eorpach an próiséas síochána is mó ar domhan. is é freisin a thugann tacaíocht airgid do na tíortha bochta, agus táimid ag iarraidh an nós sin a choinneáil. ní mór don aontas eorpach a bheith i dtús áite chun spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise a chur i bhfeidhm faoin mbliain 2015.
mr president, i have two brief comments. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. on development aid, i think it is important to point out that, while the process of finding the eur 1 billion was fraught, it is positive that europe is doing something in response to a problem. but it is worth remembering that commodity prices have actually plummeted, as have energy prices, so this eur 1 billion should do a great deal more than we had hoped for if it is properly spent. i think we need to have close scrutiny to ensure that this money goes to where it is intended and where the need is greatest, namely on the ground, producing food in places where that food can be produced. my second comments also relate to the agricultural sector, but concern the future more than this particular budget. i have some concerns about comments made by the commissioner on the so-called lack of valued added for spending on agriculture. i know we will have time to debate this in the future, but it must be a rigorous and vigorous debate. i believe that european farmers are best served by a common policy, not one where member states can pick and choose, because citizens will lose out in terms of food quality and safety.
rapporteur. − mr president, as rapporteur, i had wanted to speak before my report, but i thank you for the opportunity to speak now, because it is important for all our sakes that a couple of things are put on the record. there is probably one issue that would unite all of us in this chamber here this morning, and that is that first-reading agreements do justice neither to respecting parliamentary procedure nor to the substance of the legislation, especially when the issue is very complex and technical. (applause)first-reading agreements must, therefore, be rare and the exception, and only exceptional circumstances deserve such an exceptional response. my second procedural point is that there is no legal provision for the involvement of heads of state in the codecision process. (applause) while aspects of the climate package were on the agenda at last week’s summit meeting, and a requirement from that summit that any future revisions on amendments to aspects of eu ets be available to be considered by future summits, at the subsequent trialogue on saturday morning in brussels i added, with the full support of all the shadow rapporteurs, a new recital to my report – subsequent to the summit – which was then accepted by coreper on saturday afternoon. that recital emphasised the unique and transformative nature of eu ets legislation, but stated that this consultation with heads of state and government must in no way be taken as a precedent for any other legislation. it has been an epic legislative journey. i should like to thank commissioner dimas and his team, minister borloo and his team, with particular thanks to ambassador léglise-costa for his enormous body of work. i should like to thank the staff of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – and allow me to single out virpi köykkä for her trojan work – all our group staff, my personal assistant kavi for her untiring work, but, above all, my fellow shadow rapporteurs and their staff for a very good cooperative body of work. (applause)
mr president, my apologies, i did not hear you. i think the last award was so moving that we are still a little in awe of what has happened. i welcome the turmes report. renewable energy is, of course, central to efforts to reduce our dependency on fossil fuels, but sometimes, as we have discovered, solutions can lead to other problems, and that has certainly been the case in relation to the debate about food versus fuel production. we need to look for strict sustainability criteria, and in this context we need to look in particular at the production of wood and timber, which is a very much renewable source. i would like us to look in the widest possible context at an effective land-use policy. it is very important, here in the european union, that we marry agriculture and energy with concerns about climate change, but also we need to do this, equally, at global level. nevertheless, i very much welcome and support this report.
mr president, i also support and welcome very much this report, which refines the ets system – and, yes, it does address the concerns about carbon leakage, particularly if there is no agreement in 2009 at a global level. again, i want to mention the issue of forestry in this whole climate change era. we need a very strong voice at european level so that global deforestation is tackled. i welcome the fact that funds will be targeted at this, because at the moment it is not being addressed: we are all concerned about it, but there is no coordinated action to address the issue. i have been to brazil; i know what is happening there and in other countries, and if we do not address this all our efforts here at eu level will be in vain.
mr president, as we know, only half of the co2 emissions are covered by the ets. i supported this particular report because other sectors need to get involved and share the efforts. i want to focus in particular, though, on agriculture, which has several problems, but i think we need to remember that agriculture is about food production and we need to take that into account in what we are asking this sector to do. i also think that farmers need to be brought into the information process because system changes are being required of them and they are not being properly briefed or led on this issue. we need greater research – and it is going on in member states – into how to reduce emissions from agriculture with the cooperation of farmers. i would, however, just give a warning that whatever we do in the european union it should not lead to a reduction in our food production, because that space will be filled by imports, over whose emissions we have little control.
mr president, i support this report, although it is the one where we perhaps have some concern because it is not actually a solution. it is a temporary measure, although there is no other option than development of storage of co2 because we are going to be producing co2 into the future. what will happen beyond that depends on how much we invest in further research in this area. i know there is a view that, with the economic downturn, investments in the whole energy issue and climate change will actually yield dividends, results and jobs. i think it is in this particular area that we need to focus. so, while it is not an absolutely green solution, it is certainly part of the solution.
mr president, i shall be brief and i shall take this opportunity to say that the reason i am making an explanation of vote on these reports is that there were many of us in the chamber who were denied the opportunity of speaking on the climate change/energy package. our only opportunity to be heard in this house was to remain here and make an explanation of vote, so i beg your indulgence on that basis. to stick within my time on this particular issue: we know that we have to reduce the emissions from the road transport sector. i think a great deal has already been done, because public awareness of this issue is growing. incentives to encourage more efficient use of fuel and less emissions from road transport include the ‘disincentive’ of higher taxation on cars with higher emissions and less efficiency. these measures are already in place in some member states. that is, perhaps, the route to success.
mr president, we know that road transport accounts for 12% of co2 emissions, so obviously i support this particular report, which deals very clearly with the issue. i want to repeat my point and stress that, while overall we have supported this energy and climate change package, i think its adoption in a single reading should be regarded as a one-off. there is a lot of detail here which would have benefited from greater discussion, in committee, in the groups and in this house. i certainly would have preferred that option. however, i understand that time is of the essence and that we needed to have the european union’s position cast in stone for 2009. however, let us agree that, procedurally, it was not the best one to follow but that, from a practical point of view, we had little choice. let us hope it works.
mr president, i think the outcome of this vote is the best all round because it allows for more consideration to be given to a very complex subject on which there are many different views. on behalf of the fine gael members of the ppe-de group, we supported amendment 9 and we abstained on the votes on the opt-out because ireland does not use the opt-out, nor does it intend to. on the issue of sundays and a day of rest, i do hanker back to those lovely days and therefore supported the idea, mainly to raise the debate. i know the vote was lost, but perhaps we could reflect on the need for a little time out. i would like to amend my vote on amendments 13 and 14 – it should have been a minus not a plus. could i suggest that members of this house obey the rules we are trying to impose on everyone else? we have absolutely no regard for family life or working hours. we work relentlessly – i am not so sure if it is always effectively, but we are at it night and day – so if we are imposing these rules on others, maybe we should adopt them ourselves.
mr president, i would like to have voted with the junior hospital doctors of europe in their call in relation to inactive on-call time. however, i had to abstain. i am only too aware of the effect which the counting of all on-call time as working time will have on services, especially care services to the elderly, people with disabilities, children and other vulnerable groups. the effect on some services, especially in a time of budget constraints, will be to double the costs and therefore halve the service and make other services impossible to deliver. think, for example, of houseparents in group homes, or weekend in-house respite for carers. in focusing on doctors, who have a valid complaint, we have missed some of the situations where continuity of personnel – as with foster parents – is the most important factor in the job. we need to find a way to protect workers and to protect the vulnerable as well.
mr president, this is a very good report and we need to look at road safety in the cross-border dimension. however, i want to use these 90 seconds to raise a serious issue. there are websites advertising driving licences for sale. they suggest that what they are doing is not illegal although it may be sneaky, and they operate on the basis that there are over 100 different driving licences in the european union and that there is very little coordination between authorities who issue licences. there is thus a possibility that somebody who does not have a licence or who has failed a driving test or lost a licence can obtain a licence through this rather dubious route. at the very least this is a scam to collect money, at worst a way of allowing people who should not be on the road to continue driving. i have raised this matter with the commission and council. it needs action at eu level.
in writing. − mep turmes proposes an important piece of legislation covering the essential promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. as part of the wide ranging climate and energy package, renewable energy will provide the source of 20% of energy (including electricity, heat and transport) by 2020. this combined with the other measures included in the climate and energy package provide a good basis for combating climate change, providing impetus for investment in renewable energy sources and sourcing, a reemphasised direction for research and development and a means towards achieving energy security and independence. the binding targets will function across each member state to ensure that the agreed targets are met on an eu level. cooperation, solidarity and innovation combined will ensure that we meet the targets we no longer have the luxury to miss.
in writing. − this report is concerned with the introduction of differentiated targets across the eu27 for the period 2013-2020 for greenhouse gas reductions in economic sectors outside the eu emissions trading scheme. these ms targets are in the range +20% to -20% relative to 2005 emissions for these sectors with the irish target -20%. taken together, ets and effort sharing represent the 100% of the reduction each country has to make in co2 emissions by 2020. ireland welcomes the inclusion of increased carbon capture and storage measures specifically carbon sinks in the - 20% scenario as we are the only country in the eu that has more cattle than people and together with generous cost effective off setting to trading emissions between member states while it will be difficult, we can reach our target of 20% less without reducing our herds. some countries will be challenged by the reviewed ets legislation, some by the effort sharing targets. ireland is in the latter category.
i scríbhinn. − chuir mé féin tuairim ar an ábhar seo faoi bhráid an choiste iompair. bhí an coiste chomh scoilte sin nár éirigh linn glacadh le téacs ar bith. mheas mé féin gur théacs cothrom, réalaíoch den chuid is mó a bhí i dtéacs an choimisiúin, cé go raibh gné amháin an-tábhachtach in easnamh, is é sin cuspóir meántéarmach go fadtéarmach a chur sa reachtaíocht. tuigim cinnte go bhfuiltear imníoch faoi phostanna, ach caithfimid a bheith uaillmhianach. tá dualgas orainn an domhan seo againne a chaomhnú do na glúine atá le teacht, agus chuige sin caithfimid a bheith sásta cinntí deacra a dhéanamh. agus níl na cuspóirí “glasa” seo neamhréalaíoch. le deireanas, tá léiriú soiléir faighte againn gur gá leasuithe de chineál éigin a chur i bhfeidhm in earnáil na ngluaisteán. ní hamháin gur dualgas orainn é an t-athchoiriú comhshaoil a chaithfear a dhéanamh faoi reachtaíocht uaillmhianach, ach is deis é chomh maith; deis cur le tacaíocht do thaighde agus forbairt in earnáil na ngluaisteán, postanna a chruthú san earnáil chéanna agus ré nua a thosú inti. ní amháin gur chun leasa an phláinéid a théann an fhorbairt inbhuanaithe, ach is maith a d’fhéadfadh sé a bheith chun leasa an gheilleagair freisin.
in writing. − sinn féin attaches the highest priority to the fight against climate change. we fully recognise the profound changes needed to bring about the type of society and economy which will prove to be environmentally sustainable. therefore, we support measures at local, national, eu and at global level through the un climate talks to set the necessary binding targets for co2 reductions. specifically on the doyle report on the emissions trading scheme (ets), we voted in favour of this report, as the outcome ensures an improvement of the current eu ets, notwithstanding some serious difficulties with the scheme itself. we are unhappy with the fact that most of the reductions to reach eu targets can actually be made outside of the eu, as approved by the hassi report. we abstained on this. on the davies report on ccs and without prejudice to our clear preference for renewable energy, we voted in favour of this report, as it provides important measures on safety, financial security, and liability. we would also have liked an emissions performance standard; however, this report provides for a review into the possibility. we voted against the sacconi report on cars, as the agreement severely weakens the commission proposal.
in writing. − i welcome the endorsement received for the cercas report. safeguarding the social and human element of eu decision-making is paramount. today's vote clearly demonstrates that all citizens desire a better, safer and more secure working environment. in ireland in recent years there have been significant legal developments and social partnership agreements, including the setting up of the national employment rights authority, which surpass many minimum standards set down by various directives. achieving agreement in the council has been a long and tortuous journey. it is important to emphasise that the best guarantors of workers’ rights are clear legislation, enforcement mechanisms and partnership agreements. inevitably, there must be some level of flexibility, but this must be based on equal partnerships negotiating any alternatives to changing work practices. the subsidiarity principle is the best method of achieving the correct mechanism to allow the government and social partners to strike the proper balance; however, the idea of flexibility must not be permitted to lead to a reduction in the health and safety of workers. in ireland the government not only had these principles included in the council conclusions, but has given a written guarantee to trade unions to continue promoting and developing these points.
in writing. − mep sender's report proposes to improve road safety in europe by making penalties incurred in one member state applicable in another. the establishment of an eu network data exchange where details of four particular offences, speeding, drink driving, breaking red lights and failing to wear seatbelts - actions which needlessly endanger the lives of all road users - are registered and transmitted to the member state where that person legally resides and the appropriate penalties for these offenses, be it fines or other penalties, are applied. finding the appropriate means to achieve this balance between the need to impose appropriate penalties for road traffic offenses in the european union and find a sound legal basis for creating such a network and intervening in areas considered of national competence. the penalties for such infringements are different in member states, where in some road traffic offenses are covered under administrative and formal fines, and in others, like ireland, they are domestic criminal matters.
in writing. − on behalf of the irish delegation within the epp-ed group i would like to clarify that we supported the ayala sender report on the basis that the aim of the report and its impact will contribute greatly to improved road safety. we are aware of potential difficulties for ireland, but we feel these can and will be overcome once agreement has been reached at council on the exact legal base of this proposal.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go mór leis an tuarascáil seo, atá dírithe ar fheabhas a chur ar bhóithre na héireann. tugann sé deis pionós tras-teorann a ghearradh ar thiománaithe, toisc go gcruthófar gréasán bunachair eolais an ae. ceadóidh an gréasán seo eolas a mhalartú idir na ballstáit éagsúla maidir le tiománaithe eachtrannacha a ngearrtar pionós orthu as tiomáint mheisciúil, an iomarca luais, gan stopadh ag solas dearg nó gan crios sábhála a chaitheamh. cuirfear na coirpigh seo ar an eolas faoina bpionós airgeadais. is céim chun cinn an cur chuige comónta seo maidir le pionós a ghearradh orthu siúd nach gcloínn le rialacha an bhóthair. beidh bóithre na héireann níos sábháilte dá réir. cuirfear pionós i bhfeidhm agus cuirfidh sé stop le tiománaithe nach gcloínn leis na rialacha.
madam president, the report we are considering today covers a number of topics that relate directly to the israel-palestinian situation. of the 12 european neighbourhood policy action plans mentioned, two are for israel and the occupied palestinian territory. specifically in relation to these, the report says that there has been ‘a significant deterioration in the human rights situation, in particular as regards the right to life and personal security and the right to personal freedom and safety (especially relating to arrest, detention, search procedures, and torture and ill-treatment during interrogation). both palestinian and israeli authorities are responsible for human rights violations’. i have been very heartened by the reasoned and considered nature of much of the correspondence i have received from people who are obviously very passionate and moved by the troubling situation in the region. these matters are being raised generally with israel in the regular political dialogue meetings, and specifically in meetings of the eu-israel informal working group on human rights. it is because of this that i broadly support a continuing dialogue with israel, while strongly condemning human rights abuses on both sides. meanwhile let us continue to assist the suffering people of gaza and the west bank by effective aid. we have a road map in which the eu and the us are involved. with the election of a new us president it is time to move this issue to the top of our external affairs agenda. we must bring about a two-state solution, with full respect for human rights and all un resolutions, with great urgency.
madam president, we are rightly celebrating the 20 years of the sakharov prize, which rightly highlights the bravery of so many people who have put their lives at risk for the right to speak and for human rights. but this is about more than just speeches. as one famous irishman said, all it takes for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing. i was speaking yesterday to one of the prize-winners, mr salih osman, who told me that air strikes on civilians still continue in darfur and there is little protection of innocent people. yes, some progress has been made in the sense that the icc is acting, but a lot more needs to be done, and europe needs to be doing a lot more. i hope that the new impetus that the inauguration of barack obama as president of the united states will bring will renew international efforts, cooperation and action – real action such as the support for the establishment of a no-fly zone over darfur – and that in the new year we will finally begin to live up to our fine words and to our moral obligation. already we have stood by and seen zimbabwe, once the breadbasket of africa, become the basket case of the continent. how much more often do we have to say, ‘never again’?
mr president, the most tragic episodes of human history have been rooted in the denial of the humanity of one group of the human race by another. in the past, enslavement, persecution and genocide have been the lot of those who, because of language, race, religion or some reason, have been seen as sub-human. today in the eu we like to think that we are above this barbarity, yet today humanity is denied on the basis of age, size and ability. babies before birth and babies with disability – even after birth – are by many considered sub-human, with the result that over one million babies are destroyed in the eu every year before birth and even some after birth. what is more shocking is that this bloodbath is carried out in the name of human rights. may i remind you that the universal declaration of human rights, which we honour after 60 years, recognises the full humanity of the child before birth.
mr president, i will be brief. i rushed down to support mrs gräßle in her efforts and i think we all are doing that here today. we have heard that the reputation of the european union is being damaged by the perception that fraud is allowed to prevail. so anything that would strengthen and improve the efficiency of olaf is to be welcomed and supported. so, with those very few words, i commend mrs gräßle for her efforts and i urge the council and commission to listen carefully.
commissioner, i think your last comment was so appropriate. the banks need to realise that they need smes and have made money from them in the past. i suppose my question is a very basic one: will this work? we may not know now if it is working, but when will we know, and at what time will we say that we need to do something else? the figure of eur 30 billion is a significant figure, but the irish authorities have had to inject eur 10 billion into the banks, and some independent experts say that eur 30 billion is needed to recapitalise the irish banks. perhaps you would comment.
a uachtaráin, an bhféadfadh an coimisinéir cur leis an méid a dúirt sé maidir le deonachas nó obair dheonach i spórt agus conas a chuirfidh an coimisiún é sin chun cinn?
i would like to ask the commissioner if he could comment on his views on sports in our school curricula, the current childhood obesity epidemic and the serious link between the two, and also if he can indicate whether any member state was not represented at the sports forum in biarritz in november.
i join with the commissioner in admiring the actions taken by the european central bank. i think they have been very consistent and very restrained. but i have a question for the commissioner – notwithstanding the independence of the central bank, which we all support in this house and he supports. keeping inflation under control has helped to create something like 16 million jobs in the euro zone in the 10 years in which it has operated. given that inflation has fallen so low, what does the commissioner think the european central bank’s priorities should now be? the independence of the central bank must be protected, but that does not stop us from offering an opinion. so, does the commissioner feel that the priority for the ecb should now change, given that the inflation rate is so low and that interest rates can no longer bring inflation down?
i will not delay the proceedings. i realise that there are difficulties, but last night council question time was cancelled. i work in committees like many members here. there are others who do not participate in the workings of parliament either in committee or in plenary. the only chance we get to show that we are participating is by speaking in plenary. i know members who do not come to parliament but they draw their salaries. those of us who come should have some opportunity to put questions to commissioners. my question is two questions away. perhaps it is time that we moved to a lottery system and each commissioner would then have to answer four questions or five questions and the rest would be answered in writing. but it really is unacceptable to continue with the present system. thank you for indulging me. i just want to put that on the record because i do think it is very unfair.
i specifically wanted to ask the commissioner about processed foods from third countries, particularly chicken fillets that arrive in one-tonne frozen blocks from south america, are defrosted in some eu country, perhaps breadcrumbs or batter are put on them and then they are sold as eu products. how can the commission stand over that? you were telling us that labelling country of origin is no guarantee of safe food – you are right – and that it is another instrument to help consumers. but it also helps producers, because then consumers can compare like with like. you said that in 2010 there will be a requirement to indicate where all prepared foods are being sold. does this specifically mean in restaurants, where they are selling foods etc., that they must indicate the country of origin of animal products? finally, commissioner, i just want to congratulate you on being exceptionally hard-working and innovative.
i received a letter at just 12 o’clock today from the oral questions services which said: ‘your question is one of the first questions to the commission. normally it will be answered orally. if you are not present, the question falls and you will not receive an answer.’ so, because i wanted an answer, as does everyone who tables a question, i have sat here for one hour, on what is probably one of the busiest parliamentary days of my career. i should have been in three other places during this last hour. now i am not complaining to you, madam president, you can only operate the rules you are given. however, if you could take account on your list, when calculating the proportionality of the supplementary questions (and i get more than my fair share), of the length of time members are in the house – rather than some members being able to come in and get a supplementary immediately, just because you are balancing the political groups, or whatever – i think we would all be quite happy to comply with your rule of thumb. as it is, you have an impossible job to do. please go back to the conference of presidents and look at the system as to how questions are ordered. if we do not stay in the house – for an hour in my case, having been invited to be here because mine was one of the questions – we do not get any answer at all, not even a written answer. that is our frustration. thank you for your patience.
mr president, first of all i want to congratulate mr andersson and mr mann for their excellent work and, indeed, good outcomes. most of us here this evening will agree that the european quality assurance reference framework for vocational education and training will prove to be a very useful instrument for helping member states to promote and monitor continuous improvement in their vocational education and training systems. this framework will be based on common european references and will build on the limited application and indeed the limited success of the previous framework, called the common quality assurance framework. we learned from our experience with that previous framework when developing the current proposal, and i believe we have significantly improved on what was already there. the proposed framework will contribute to the quality and efficiency of investment in human capital in various different ways, of which i will just mention three: by delivering better education and skills; by improving standards; and by promoting mobility. the operation of this framework is voluntary, and i hope commissioner figeľ is right when he says that it reflects not only our diversity but also our maturity. it gives us a shared framework with common quality criteria, and that outcome can only be achieved by community action. by doing this we have avoided the minefield of various bilateral agreements, and with the minimalising of administrative standards we are providing a good mechanism with which to benchmark quality standards. this is a good, practical piece of legislation that will deliver good outcomes. whenever parliament manages to deliver legislation like this it is doing a good day’s work.
mr president, i am here to support my neighbour, thomas mann, and i want to congratulate both him and the other rapporteur for their work. but there is a particular issue which has arisen, certainly in my member state and perhaps in yours, mr president. the building boom has in my view created a huge problem, particularly for young men who really were not encouraged to go in for education and training because of the attraction of a high wage in the building sector. unfortunately, that has passed, and a lot of people in that category are left without training and therefore without access to other work that may come along. so i think that individual member states, and certainly ireland, need to target those particular groups so that when the good times come (and we hope they will return soon), they will be trained for other work. obviously, the idea of quality assurance and control is vital. i worry that education is now a business without that element of quality control and the idea of cross-border movement of workers requires us to have an eu-wide, coordinated approach to vocational education and training.
madam president, i was very glad to see that the vote went ahead in the toy safety directive for the simple reason that, if we are going to send a strong message around the world about toys and toy safety, it has to be done at christmas. to have put it off would have diluted the message. at this time of year people are thinking about toys. again this year, millions of chinese toys have been taken off the market, as they were last year. the issues – which have been lead, arsenic, mercury and pcbs – are very serious, and it does not matter what a toy is for – whether it is a book or something to ride on or whatever – i know as a mother that at some point it could end up in a child’s mouth. so we cannot be careful enough with toys, but i am glad that we have sent this message now.
madam president, i would like to wish you merry christmas as well. you are not in a completely empty chamber. i voted for the lópez report on the protection of adults, especially with cross-border implications, because i know from experience the necessity of this, but also because i hope this is going to be one step closer to the day when we can see true mobility in europe. in this we are dealing with adults who in some way are attached to a court situation. in many cases these are often very vulnerable people and in some cases they are wards of court or people with disabilities. but, if we can take this further, the logic of this would be to get one step closer to the day when social welfare recipients can bring their supports with them, so that they too can move around europe the way employees do.
madam president, i voted against the deva report on development perspectives for peace-building and nation building in post-conflict situations because of one section, the one that states we should be able to take preventive as well as reactive initiatives that can even involve the use of coercive military force as an absolute last resort. this is the bush doctrine; perhaps the other people in the chamber did not recognise this as the bush doctrine that took us into iraq, but it is. sarah palin was criticised because she did not know what the bush doctrine was, but i wonder whether meps have understood that we have just voted for the bush doctrine today.
in writing. − the commissions 2007 communication entitled 'delivering lifelong learning for knowledge, creativity and innovation' is part of a series of biennially produced progress reports on the implementation of the education and training 2010 work programme. as such, the report provides an overview of progress made and a review of the situation of coordination in education and training within the aegis of the lisbon strategy objectives of making europe both the world's most competitive economy and one with full employment by 2010. this report gives us a valuable insight into the state of play of various educational initiatives, both successful and unsuccessful, and also documents means and measures appropriate to bring about further improvement. it sets out clear objectives and solid statistical indicators and benchmarks. i fully support the efforts made to bring us to our agreed destination with the lisbon strategy and give this report the support it deserves.
in writing. − mep thyssen's proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of toys proposes to increase the safety measures involved in and restrict the use of dangerous heavy metals in the preparation and fabrication of children's toys. the proposal aims to revise the current directive (88/378/eec) and includes a total overhaul to bring it in line with the specifications outlined in the decision on a common framework on the marketing of products. the proposal aims to extend the scope of the directive with regard to 'double use products' which are also toys, increasing the amount of products concerned by the directive. concretely, issues concerning choking hazards and the regulation of chemicals used in the fabrication process have been addressed to remove or reduce hazards for children. this seasonal proposal has my full support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the thyssen report and was pleased to do so, even though procedural matters almost got in the way of the final vote. safe toys are a must and the eu should and is leading the way when it comes to safety concerns. the total ban on the use of chemical substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction is essential. even though there is a provision for exceptions on a case-by-case basis, this should only be on the strict advice of the european scientific committee. it is also appropriate that allergenic fragrances be banned and 55 such substances will now be removed from toys. likewise very strict rules as regards heavy metals, with maximum levels imposed. parents buying toys this christmas have a presumption of safety. this revised toy safety directive will improve the situation greatly, would that it were already in place for this christmas season.
in writing. − the european credit system for vocational education and training, which aims to support and promote the transnational mobility of learners and access to lifelong learning. as an operational system, through ecvet, the transfer, recognition and accumulation of learning achievements will be improved. the european qualifications framework (eqf) already provides the means to 'translate' different means of assessing the variety of qualifications that exist in europe. the ecvet provides an additional means of translation and transposition using a common methodological framework to facilitate the transfer of learning outcomes from one system to another. the importance of investing in the future of our knowledge economy in europe cannot be underemphasised and this transnational method of recognising educational results provides us with the material to do so. i fully support this proposal for establishing this credit system.
in writing. − mep ortega proposes a means to deal with legal instruments called authentic acts. authentic acts are principally concentrated in member states that come from a civil law tradition where legislation provides the primary source of law, in contrast to common law traditions (e.g. ireland and the united kingdom) and their reliance on customary rights and privileges. in the civil law tradition an authentic act is one established by a competent public officer or a competent authority and covers not only the act, but also its content. this content ranges from financial transactions but also the realm of public records and official documents of that kind. the motion for a parliamentary resolution aims to promote increased legislative intervention across member states that possess such acts by considering their mutual recognition and application in specific areas. this proposal adds additional weight to pre-existing legislation and is of potential benefit for countries from this legal tradition.
in writing. − the justice and home affairs (jha) council met in 2007 and adopted conclusions on the use of 'e-justice'- regarding the cross border use of information and computer technology in the justice sector - and agreed that efforts towards creating a centralised system across the european area of freedom, security and justice should continue. as internet usage tips closer to saturation and the full impact of our information based society becomes clearer, the import of increased technologically based support of the justice sector is of clear benefit to all. however it is important to recognise that the levels of technological development across the union are not uniform and that this opt-in element remains until such a time as development is more even, and advanced technical capacity is reached. mep wallis' proposal concerns the establishment of a centralised e-justice system which details a framework for action for the creation of a european e-justice portal where civil, criminal and commercial matters are all regrouped, for example where criminal records, land registry deeds and insolvency registers are contained and thus accessible to member states.
madam president, we have watched zimbabwe’s slow agony for many years. in addition to political violence and deepening poverty we now see it speed up as we see the inevitability of starvation and disease gripping the five million inhabitants. we must be there for the people, feed them, bring them medical relief, and support their yearning desire for freedom. to help them, we must isolate its leader, mugabe, from his african supporters by getting all african leaders to condemn him. beyond africa, we must work to remove the international supporters, the usual suspects china and russia, by challenging them to cut off all support and trade with mugabe. we have to examine our own conscience, though, because it is not so long ago that we, the eu, invited mugabe to attend the eu-hosted au-eu summit in lisbon.
in writing. – nicaragua has many urgent problems: political and police corruption, lack of independence of the judiciary, possibly fraudulent elections, growing poverty, illiteracy, poor healthcare. however, the fact that nicaragua unlike europe protects its babies before birth is not one of its transgressions. we in europe have the wealth to take care of our mothers and babies but allow over a million babies to be destroyed before birth. nicaragua is poor and yet still holds out a welcome to its young. nicaragua with all its problems has a demographic future, whereas we in europe who criticise nicaragua face a harsh demographic winter. we must help nicaragua establish robust democracy, strong, honest economics and effective education and health systems, and help them to care for their families, their women and children, rather than destroy them with legalised abortion.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, russia is europe’s largest and closest neighbour and, because of our trade relations, also one of the most important. what happens in russia is very important to europe for these reasons. also what happens in russia has a very big influence on europe. for these reasons, as well as the human rights violations which it contains, this is a very important resolution. i would like to highlight the fact that i met with gary kasparov, while he was a candidate for the presidency of russia, in this parliament here in strasbourg. he came as an honoured guest when he was a candidate. kasparov made it clear to us – even then – that the kremlin’s attitude towards political activity meant that they treated him as a subversive and a criminal – many of the things we are talking about today – liable to manhandling and always under threat of arrest and the arrest of his supporters. sometimes this sort of activity even goes beyond russian borders and even into the eu. on a recent trip by the petitions committee to bulgaria, we were told by the bulgarian orthodox church, which is suffering severe persecution in bulgaria, of the influence of russia in their situation. we must put aside considerations of our fear about energy security that soften our approach to russia and make us tiptoe in their presence, and speak to russia strongly and clearly, reminding them that they are members of the council of europe and signatories to the european convention on human rights and the strasbourg accord, and we must insist that they respect democracy and human rights in russia and beyond.
