mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just one clarification: my group disagreed.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have wanted to draft my opinion on the competitive regulatory framework in the automotive sector for the 21st century by including some suggestions, taking account of the high strategic value for growth and employment of the union, but also taking account of the need to further promote both technological innovation in vehicles on the one hand and innovation in infrastructure on the other, but of course taking care of the safety of european roads. i believe that all this can be achieved through reducing emissions, but i believe that for this real reduction of emissions more attention should have been paid to an integrated approach, such as that proposed by the cars 21 group, which i have the impression, on the contrary, that the commission has slightly missed. in particular, i regret the lack of emphasis on the policies needed to achieve the agreed cost-benefit principle. i also believe that in order to achieve the objective of increased use of biofuels, it is necessary and urgent to give impetus to an adequate distribution network, otherwise the objective cannot be achieved, certainly at local level. i would like to conclude by saying that i have been and am hoping that the necessary measures will be taken so that the costs of technological adaptation can be borne on a level playing field and in conditions of free competition and effective competitiveness in the union. i have indeed drawn the attention of my colleagues and the commission, with little luck, to the importance of maintenance.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i should like to answer mr turmes' question immediately. the remarks i quoted were not about the automobile industry at all, but were a very general remark on the link between industrial policy and environmental policy, between economics and ecology. and you know my position: we must have the highest standards in europe. but it is not worth going so far that industries are leaving and we are exporting pollution and, as a result, importing unemployment. but that was not at all about the automobile industry. i am of the opinion that we have not only the opportunity but also the obligation to establish europe as the leading market for environmentally friendly cars in a firm and lasting way. i would like to say to mrs corbey that it is not true that the chinese are building cars that are more environmentally friendly than the europeans and that they are now making millions of cars on the european market. the few hundred chinese cars currently on the market in europe are extremely dangerous not only from an environmental point of view but also from an environmental point of view. the same applies to the volkswagen which will be built in india, the tata. if you compare the weight of this car with its consumption, you will find that the figures are much worse than those of those currently produced in europe. the same goes for the us: it is now far-fetched to accuse american cars of being more environmentally friendly than european ones. i think if you think about it for just a very, very brief moment, you'll very quickly come to the conclusion that that can't be true. and as far as modern technology goes, the only working hydrogen cars in the world are in europe. nowhere is more money spent on research into this technology than here. i would like to conclude with a thought that perhaps brings us together: i am therefore quite calm in this whole discussion and really think that we are on the right track, because i know that not only the european car manufacturers, but especially the european automotive suppliers - because they are the truly innovative forces in the european industry - have not been sleeping in recent years, but that we are facing a whole series of technological breakthroughs that will allow us to achieve the objectives. mr turmes, you are absolutely right and i would have liked to have supported such a proposal: industry would be happy and i, as the commissioner responsible for industry, would be happy if we could say what the next step should be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they can be very demanding if they're long-term and if they're stable.
member of the commission. − mr president, some weeks ago, as you remember, we discussed the contribution of taxation and customs policies to the lisbon strategy of growth, jobs and competitiveness. cross-border loss relief is one key element for establishing a competitive internal market without obstacles and thus contributing to growth and employment. let me explain the importance of granting cross-border loss relief for the internal market. imagine a small or medium-sized enterprise which is operating successfully in its domestic market. once it plans to expand its operation to other member states, to the internal market, it will not only run into problems regarding additional compliance costs. thus, in many cases, this sme will not be able to set off any start-up losses against profits which it may continue to generate in its member state of residence. the non-consideration of foreign losses results in double taxation and discourages many smes from investing in other member states. with the new initiative on cross-border loss relief, large enterprises – but also smes in particular – could more easily extend their activities abroad and enjoy the full benefits of the internal market. the initiative on cross-border loss relief constitutes a targeted solution in the short to medium term and represents an intermediary step. but please note that this initiative could in the future be complementary to the common consolidated corporate tax base (cctb), notably for companies that are not covered by the cctb. the initiative on cross-border loss relief is more limited in scope than the consolidation of the tax base under the cctb would be, as this provides automatic and comprehensive off-setting of all profits and losses within a group of companies. i highly appreciate the strong support expressed in ms kauppi’s report for the commission’s initiative in the field of cross-border loss relief, for the coordination approach and of course also for our work on the cctb. like you, i am persuaded that we should continue our efforts to dismantle tax barriers in the internal market.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which we are voting on tomorrow is emblematic of the need for a fiscal policy at european union level. this does not mean exhausting or limiting national tax policies - there is no doubt that the individual member states have competence in this area - but it means accompanying and coordinating them, particularly when, as in the case of losses incurred by companies in cross-border situations, national borders are in fact crossed by the choices of grouping and relocating companies on european territory and beyond. it is clear that national rules cannot suffice, but neither can bilateral agreements, given that the phenomena are multiple, plural and transcend individual borders, today in the era of the globalisation of financial and productive markets. the text is the result of a number of common points and i shall simply mention the main ones and thank the rapporteur for her constant availability. 27 different tax regimes prevent the proper functioning of the internal market and hinder businesses, especially smaller ones, as commissioner kovács has just reminded us. the first statement in the text is of the utmost importance and expresses its deepest concern at the negative impact on the functioning of the internal market of the diversity of the regimes applied by the member states to crossborder losses. the solution found is still transitional and intermediate, because only a common consolidated corporate tax base (cctb) is the appropriate solution. this is why the commission 's communication is supported as an important step to address the situation and at the same time calling for appropriate coordination between member states as regards timing and solutions cited in paragraph 4 . the important thing is to remember that there are common european institutions such as the european company and the european cooperative company and european-based provisions on community-scale groups, which is important to enhance, because they allow us not only to evoke the link with collective labour relations and therefore with the effects on employment, but also to recognize the construction of european-level groups of enterprises with stability; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a production system which can rely on equal treatment, avoiding different accounting depending on whether parent companies are located in the same state or are present in different states. this can only be achieved by specific rules and uniform conditions. it is not a question of making it a banner of ideological opposition, of recognising that fruitful tax competition would fundamentally contradict the content of this proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have followed the debate with great interest, and it has confirmed my conviction that the introduction of cross-border loss relief is an important factor for the deepening of the internal market. i fully share the views of ms kauppi that on the surface it is about taxation, but in reality it is about the proper functioning of the internal market. i am particularly grateful for your support with facilitating, in particular, the cross-border economic activities of the smes, which is very close to my heart. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms kauppi, for the very encouraging report, as well as the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs for their support. the commission can agree with most of the conclusions. the support of parliament is welcome as a factor which may have a positive impact on the subsequent discussion in the council. as suggested in the report, i can assure you that we are continuing efforts on the ccctb and on the coordination of member states’ direct tax systems. the ccctb is also very close to my heart, and the reason is that i am absolutely certain that it would be of greater relative benefit to the small and medium-sized enterprises than the big multinationals. however, i understand the concerns, and to respond to the question at the end of the debate, i want to tell you that in the council it is on the table, but not as a concrete proposal. for the time being it is on the table as a concept, and as far as the concept is concerned, some two thirds of member states expressed their support and less than one third expressed either doubts or opposition. any discussion, particularly discussion which would prejudice the current debate on the cross-border loss relief issue, would be premature because there is, for the time being, no concrete legislative proposal. in the legislative work programme of the commission, however, there is one point which states that, in the second half of the year, we will present a concrete legislative proposal – with the necessary impact assessment – on the ccctb. then we can discuss whether the concerns are relevant or not. one more point: if there is no unanimous agreement – and for the time being i believe that there will be no unanimous agreement – we can resort to enhanced cooperation as a solution. so, no single member state would be forced to accept the ccctb and to use it. and, even in those countries that chose the ccctb, no companies would be forced to use it, because there would be no sense in forcing companies that are not operating in the internal market – that are not doing business in the internal market – to use this common tax base. they can stay with the domestic national base used previously. so i share your conclusion that, in order to promote coherent development and the proper functioning of the internal market, obstacles deriving from the existence of different company tax regimes in the member states must be tackled, preferably through common approaches and coordinated actions. with regard to the loss offset, your report highlights several specific areas where more work needs to be done, such as addressing the particular needs of smes, the definition of groups and the scope for automatic information exchange. my services will study these suggestions and comments and, where possible, bring the issues forward. the sme aspect is already an important part of the work of vice-president günther verheugen. another aspect, the definition of groups of companies, is an essential element of the work on the ccctb. i can also assure you that your recommendations for cross-border loss relief within companies and groups of companies will orient our work in the coming months. there are several references in your report to tax avoidance. here it may be noted that, last december, the commission adopted a communication on the application of anti-abuse measures in the area of direct taxation. the commission shares the concerns about tax avoidance expressed in your report. member states need to be able to prevent their tax bases from being eroded because of abuse and aggressive tax planning. at the same time it is vital to ensure that there will be no undue restrictions to the treaty freedoms. by launching this latest initiative, the commission seeks to prompt further discussions with the other institutions on how national anti-abuse measures can meet those requirements. your observations on tax avoidance risk will be taken into consideration. finally, as regards the proposed amendments to the report, the commission would advise against amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, but it could support amendments 7 and 8, which are in line with the spirit of the communication.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking mr costa for the preparation of this report. reducing the administrative burden of eu regulation is one of the most effective measures to improve the regulatory environment for our 24 million businesses in europe. in this way, this initiative also makes an important contribution to achieving our ambitious objectives under the partnership for growth and jobs. the commission therefore welcomes parliament's support for the rapid adoption of this emergency measure. this will eliminate unnecessary information requirements on intra-community transport flows. the measure at issue today will repeal rules which are outdated and actually date back to 1960. these rules, which are still in force today, currently require carriers to provide a range of information on tariffs, price agreements and transport agreements when their goods are transported across national borders within the community. the simplification proposed by the commission will be a major simplification for 300 000 european transport companies, and we expect to save these companies at least eur 160 million a year. so that's a word after all. as regards procedure, the commission notes that the european parliament has divided the so-called 'omnibus proposal' for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending both regulation no 11 on the elimination of discrimination in respect of carriage of goods and conditions of carriage and regulation no 852/2004 on the hygiene of foodstuffs into two separate proposals. however, i would like to say that the commission still prefers the so-called 'omnibus approach', i.e. to deal with several measures to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens in one proposal, for two reasons: firstly, it is clear that the aim is not to change the substance of the legislation in question, but only - i repeat: only - to reduce unnecessary bureaucratic burdens, and secondly, this is the way to achieve a faster adoption of these measures. the commission therefore hopes that the two legislators will now make rapid progress on the second part of the proposal, namely the part of the proposal dealing with food hygiene. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should have to repeat many of the things that commissioner verheugen said and therefore avoid them. we are faced with a meritorious activity, very often in small measures are hidden great results, and this is one of them. it is clear that we are dealing with rules which were born with another europe, the basis of the regulation dates back to 1960, when the countries were distinct, when the rules on hygiene and food could hide discrimination and obstacles to competition, so it was necessary to indicate the way forward, it was necessary to indicate where the borders were crossed, it was necessary to say many things and many details, many things which are no longer needed today and it is therefore good that we get rid of these rules and adapt them. we know that all the food hygiene regulations are delicate and therefore could have taken a lot of time and that is why we have found this solution - which i think is a smart one - to separate the transport regulations, which are easily acceptable and easier, i hope, to follow. the committee, which i have the honour of chairing, has unanimously accepted my report. i think this is a good opportunity for the house to do the same thing tomorrow and to make it possible to move very quickly in this direction. it is a case of virtuous simplification, a case of simplification which at the same time is adapted to current conditions, to the new possibilities of information which do away with so many bureaucratic obligations and which perhaps allow us to concentrate more on the idea and the attention to be paid to ensure that food is transported hygienically from one point to another in the union.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that we are saying more than we have to. i think we can all agree on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. i think my recommendation can only be to repeat tomorrow what i said in committee and hope to achieve the same result: i would like to see a unanimous or almost unanimous vote on this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals (com (2006) 0745 - c6-0439/2006 - 2006/0246 (cod)) (a6-0406/2007).
i gave her more time, as i did others, because it was clear that these five minutes were less, since there were fewer members, but only in this case.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 15 january 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 december an accident at a thyssen krupp plant in turin resulted in the death of seven workers: this is a very serious matter, which shows how much the problem of security is still unresolved! but the tragedy in turin requires another reflection to be made here in this house: we should have expected this multinational to behave seriously, but it did not. the italian newspapers reported yesterday that a confidential document written by a big manager of thyssen krupp after the tragic fire at the steel plant and seized by the judiciary, defined the workers who survived and were interviewed after the accident as the workers who make heroes and celebrities on television. there are no words to describe this, except to say it's a sham. it would be very important if this parliament, and you too, commissioner, could and would express your disapproval of thyssen krupp, without any formality. what happened in turin is happening everywhere and calls, also on the basis of the excellent willmott report, for a genuine moratorium on accidents and deaths at work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs willmott, for her excellent work and, above all, for her willingness to compromise. more than 160 000 deaths and around 300 000 disabled people a year in the eu due to accidents at work and workrelated diseases - that's too many! in our society, where man is often seen as a factor of production, the human aspect of this problem is undervalued. the state - that is, the legislator and the government - must also pay the consequences of this exploitation to those who are exclusively profit-oriented. this is the only way to ensure that safety and health at work are given the necessary weight. the public perception of occupational accidents is more pronounced than the wide variety of occupational diseases. here more and more intensive efforts are needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to review the main points of this strategy and elaborate on the recommendations contained in my opinion: the need to guarantee equal social protection for all workers, irrespective of their contract, the reduction of red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises and the need to provide financial incentives for training are all of paramount importance. but to speak of this alone would be ingenuous to those who rightly demand explanations and justice in the face of immense tragedies, the latest of which was the one that took place a few days ago in turin and which was also mentioned by mr panzeri. on the night of 6 and 7 december a fire broke out in the thyssen krupp plant, killing seven workers: the fire extinguishers weren't working. only later did we learn that the company was in breach of safety regulations! the european parliament and i cannot refrain from remembering this disaster. i am far from condemning the conduct of the german multinational company in its entirety, and far from thinking that the company, although guilty, could have wilfully and deliberately failed to comply with its safety obligations in order to save money. i do not want to adopt the ideological positions of certain sections of certain italian left-wing trade unions which, when they heard the news of the closure of the plant last june, stood up as champions of safety, declaring themselves responsible and vigilant over the safety of the plants. but it is not yet time to pass judgement, especially if you are in a hurry. while respecting national competences in this area, i therefore believe it is urgent for the european union to work to ensure full enforcement of the laws, firstly by strengthening the monitoring activity of the agency for health and safety at work, and to strengthen the coordination of the respective interventions at national level by improving the functioning of the european committee of labour inspectorates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i begin by expressing my condolences for the tragedy that has struck the workers at the turin plant and i would like to point out the undeniable fact that in italy too many people die as a result of accidents at work because too little is done in terms of prevention and compliance with the rules. the responsibility for this is equally shared between the enterprise, the trade unions and the supervisory bodies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. there are those who should be defending the interests of the workers and are often absent, if not conniving, instead of being alert and ready to report to the authorities responsible for the shortcomings in the safety system; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union needs to promote safety at the workplace and the willmott report is much more satisfactory than the commission's proposal in this respect. i believe that when we talk about work and industry, we should not limit ourselves to simply guaranteeing free competition and competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, people are still dying in the workplace. where strength and creativity should be used to demonstrate man's ability to manipulate matter, develop knowledge and find support for his life, all too often there are incidents of death and attacks on the life and health of the person. that is why the anger and dismay that has gripped the italian public over the death of seven workers in the fire at the thyssen krupp factory in turin last december cannot but make us wonder what went wrong in that factory to prevent that disaster; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the legislative framework to support a proper prevention policy, to define the obligations of undertakings, to deal with new occupational diseases is now at an advanced stage in europe. but there is a lack of controls, of law enforcement inspections, of staff and of financial resources. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i also think and conclude that the green paper on corporate social responsibility should be taken up again as a cohesive and innovative element in the effort to reduce occupational accidents and diseases.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for second reading by mr kurt lechner, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on consumer credit and repealing directive 87/102/eec (09948/2/2007 - c6-0315/2007 - 2002/0222 (cod)) (a6-0504/2007).
if there are no other speeches, i would remind my colleagues that the 'catch the eye' procedure can also be used to speak again if you feel you have not finished your speech the first time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2008 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr. president, two things: i think that this camera that is placed here should be removed so that mr donnici and all of us can see the presidency and the other members. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the bureau of the european parliament on its decision to dedicate the press room of the parliament to anna politovskaya.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are very kind to give me the floor after 20 minutes of what i asked for, and yet i am central to the presidency. mr president, i speak for the record and for the democracy of this house. it is good for the presidency of parliament and all the group chairmen to know that two mistakes never make a right. what is politically useful is not always politically correct, and after hearing the grand mufti today, we must decide clearly and unequivocally for all of us whether in this house we are following the democracy of the rule of law or whether we are following the interest that each of us may have depending on the circumstances. this morning there was a mistake made in parliament's rules of procedure and we are correcting that mistake by voting today with an empty house. we are making another mistake at the expense of our democracy. i do not support the uen group in saying whether it is important to talk about waste in italy at 9 p.m. tonight or at 5 p.m. this afternoon. if it is important that the explanations of vote follow, as they always have in this parliament, the vote when the vote is cast should have been this morning. but i ask you, mr president, i ask you, you can take my floor, i tell you i am not interested, i say to you, mr president, what are the rules of this parliament? you know that? in this respect you wish to answer this empty chamber which votes on the basis of who was called and not on the basis of who wanted to express a judgment on their own! you fool!
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues, first of all, for their valuable cooperation, and in particular vice-president frattini for his commitment to the defence of children's rights since the beginning of his mandate. the report does not claim to cover all the issues, of course, but i think it is a good starting point. the aim was to lay the foundations for a strategy to promote and safeguard the rights of children in both the internal and external policies of the european union and to support the efforts of the member states in this area. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also called for the establishment of a european court of justice for children. the strategy aims first and foremost at affirming the positive rights of children, including the right to a family, the right to health, education, social inclusion, but also the right to entertainment, play, sport, as well as the right to a clean and protected environment. the aim is to create a child-friendly society, where children can feel safe and have a role to play. the report therefore rests on two main premises: 1) active participation of children in decisions affecting them; 2) mainstreaming, i.e. the integration and promotion of children's rights in all eu policies. in short, children's rights must finally become a political priority for europe, also because children represent about 30% of european citizens and there is still a lot to be done for them, starting with the fight against violence and abuse, with worryingly growing phenomena such as paedophilia and child pornography on the internet. the general objective is to ban all forms of violence, including so-called traditional practices, honour killings, forced marriages and not only the certainty of punishment for perpetrators of violence, but also a prevention strategy to support children at risk. another priority is the fight against child poverty. it is worth recalling that even within the european union 19% of children live below the poverty line and that it is therefore necessary to provide for appropriate support measures also to support their families. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of drugs and the use of drugs in the context of the fight against aids. another key element of the strategy is to ensure education and training for all children, including the poorest and most disadvantaged. measures should also be taken for disabled children to avoid any form of discrimination. we are among the experts and therefore it is perhaps superfluous to list here all the emergencies to be dealt with: the report also highlights the need to address the problem of child labour, the proliferation of violent video games, the rise in international child abduction, the complexities of bureaucracy that make international adoptions difficult, the plight of child soldiers, child labour, the lack of registration of births, the staggering number of missing children who are no longer known. and you could go on and on and on. in fact, it is necessary to network appropriate tools and timely information to exchange successful experiences and good practice, to put in synergy links, including legal and criminal instruments, to deal with problems concretely and in real time, possibly succeeding in preventing them. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon they have a few more chances. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is now part of the treaty and therefore also article 24, which expressly regulates the rights of the child, thus establishing a legal basis for the implementation of the strategy. at this point not only parliament but above all the member states must get down to work immediately.
i would like to thank mrs angelilli for her sensitive work on a very important subject: the question of the future of the european union. a society that is hospitable to children is hospitable to all its citizens. i also believe that we are taking a very important step today in this parliament because the institutions which are able to deal with the situation of children will certainly be able to deal better with all european citizens. i believe that mrs angelilli's report contains many interesting and dynamic points which also provide the commission with guidance for the future steps ahead. i think there are some points that need to be made, particularly the need to be very careful about the figures of unaccompanied minors in administrative detention centres for migrants. the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, in its inspections of these places, has found that in many countries, in france, in belgium, in italy, many unaccompanied minors, many children are locked up in these places, in inhuman and degrading conditions, unacceptable for children as well as unacceptable for all men and women. we therefore believe that this point must be stressed and that attention must be paid to the need to prevent child labour. child labor is often linked to exploitation and is linked to poverty. for these reasons, we think that a contribution which must come from this parliament is a broad contribution which goes in the direction of improving the social conditions of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the good member is excellent and i consider the union's action and a strategy to defend the rights of children to be a priority. it is necessary to recognize children as subjects of law and to call for policies and measures in this regard which also seek to protect the life of the individual from conception. the report calls for further action and, in a completely agreeable way, calls for the affirmation of rights which are an integral part of those rights which the union and its states are bound to respect and which need a specific legal basis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child pornography, and it is therefore important that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that this is not the case. the union, in my view, should not accept that in any of its member states there is any tolerance for paedophilia of any kind, prohibiting the right to propagate it and of course to practise it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the 20th century began with children who had virtually no rights and ended with clear and undeniable progress, but the road ahead is still long and not easy, as many passages in the report point out. in the short time available, and also on the basis of my personal experience with unicef, i would like to urge the commission to insist on one point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the adoption of a community instrument on adoption. it is appropriate to adopt a regulatory framework that contributes to improving the quality of care in information services to manage the steps of preparation for international adoptions and the processing of the process for applications and family support services in the post-adoption phase. all too often in these areas of life there are still abuses, shortcomings, delays and inconveniences that the adoptive families and especially the children do not deserve.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking vice-president frattini once again for his renewed assurance of the european commission's strong commitment to the rights of the child, and then to thank him for the call he made in his introduction, the call to the member states for the timely activation of the telephone helplines for children, because these delays are really unjustifiable. i would also like to thank him for pointing out that not all the member states have yet set up a national child rights guardian, which we have also mentioned and deplored in the report. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this document, but also those who have spoken, because i believe we are all united in our view of the best interests of the child. of course, i repeat this and share the concerns that have been expressed in this house today, we must force our member states to move more quickly from words to deeds and of course parliament and the european commission must also do their part. a few flashes on some of the issues that were highlighted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the right to a healthy and clean environment must be one of the main rights to be guaranteed to children. i was also pleased to learn that one of the topics to be discussed at the next european forum on the rights of the child will be the problem of intercountry adoption, and in this connection i would also like to stress that, in addition to this enormous problem, which is often all bureaucratic, of the difficulty of intercountry adoption, there is the tragedy of children who are disputed between parents after separation or divorce. it is a european emergency, which has of course also developed as a result of the enlargement of the frontiers. i would like to conclude by saying that i am obviously very pleased with the work that has been done and i believe that it will certainly not be perfect, but it is a good starting point provided, i repeat, that there is the seriousness and the responsibility to act concretely at certain times.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the commission statement on the alarming waste situation in campania.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the amount of waste accumulated in the streets of naples and other neighbouring cities since 21 december, as we have been informed by the media, is estimated to have exceeded the enormous amount of 100 000 tonnes. this, together with the negative - i would say catastrophic - consequences for the health of the inhabitants and the environment, is a matter of grave concern. the crisis of the last few days in naples did not come out of nowhere. it is the culmination of the faulty application of european waste legislation, for which italy has been repeatedly condemned by the court of justice of the european communities over the last 14 years. apart from the role of organised crime highlighted by the press, a direct cause of the present crisis seems to be the inaction and lack of will to adopt the measures required to solve the chronic problem of waste management. when the commission was first informed of the critical situation of the waste collection and disposal system in campania in spring 2007, it initiated infringement proceedings against italy for breach of community waste legislation. since then, the commission has been closely monitoring developments and has already carried out a first on-the-spot assessment of the situation, at the invitation of the italian government. a further meeting with the competent italian authorities is scheduled in the coming days. it is now up to the italian authorities to take immediate action to remove the garbage from the streets. but as this new crisis shows, it is not enough to simply remove garbage from the streets. any short-term measures must be complemented by the adoption, and most importantly, the effective implementation of long-term strategic measures. for example, an adequate network of waste treatment plants in full compliance with the standards laid down in community legislation. this should be combined with an integrated long-term waste management strategy aimed at promoting recycling and sorting of waste at collection. legislative decree no 61, adopted in may 2007 to resolve the waste crisis, has not achieved its objective. the emergency plan announced by prime minister prodi on 8 january is a more ambitious step in this direction, but the timetable of measures, which must be short and effective, remains crucial. we will continue to closely monitor the practical implementation of the measures by the italian authorities. the commission will continue to put pressure on the italian government to bring the crisis to an end and intends to pursue legal proceedings against italy. the continuing violations of community environmental legislation in campania must be brought to an end, as community law requires. although the situation appears to be difficult, it is not impossible for the italian authorities to comply with community waste legislation. i am sure that useful examples can be drawn not only from other member states but also from other regions of italy where solutions have been found for the controlled disposal of waste by combining various forms of reduction, collection and disposal.
i would like to say to the commissioner that, while i agree with his report, i think that the situation is not difficult but rather dramatic. i could end my speech by quoting a judgment from the economist a few days ago: the waste piled up on city streets is not only harmful, but it is a political gamble and a reminder to citizens of the fragility of their civilization, which can lead them to rebel against their political representatives. that's the situation. naples is famous for the four days, as everyone knows, when the people rose up against the stranger. some newspapers have written that today the enemies of the territory are those who have compromised the good name of naples in the world. it consumes a civilization. the tragedy of the waste in naples and campania did not start overnight, but has been going on for 14 years; the commissioner has reminded us that the real tragedy began on 21 december when the urban cleaning trucks stopped because the landfills were full, there were no incinerators, the health hazard was imminent and the waste was being collected in separate stages. the campania region is in fact devoid of waste-to-energy plants, and the landfills are in the hands of organized crime, the camorra. the campania region has not been able to deal with a problem which is, after all, a matter for the ordinary administration, such as the cleaning of the city, because it did not want to do so, because the regional administration and its president are the victims of the organized criminal gang which has control over the entire business. some political forces in the prodi government and all the opposition parties have called for the regional council to be dissolved and for a commissioner with full powers to be appointed to react against the irresponsible presence of the minister for the environment, mr pecoraro scanio. the contribution of the european plan 1994-1999 of 200 million has only been used for 81% and there is no regional plan and therefore there is the commissioner. mr president, give me a few more seconds. the commissioner can award contracts without respecting the european rules on procurement and this creates a vicious circle of illegality and inefficiency. the real risk is that we will lose the 330 million for the structural funds. the commission has initiated an infringement procedure against italy, which was unavoidable, and certainly campania is a long way from the rules imposed by european directives, which the various commissioners, including those in government, have not taken into account. we are asking for a commission inspection at the end of the month and for a strong position to be taken to enforce the introduction of the waste heaters, and europe can do this and we are asking for an inspection by parliament too, a qualitative leap forward on its part.
i must make a recommendation before i continue the debate with my colleagues, and i must make not only a recommendation but also a warning concerning the new procedures. first of all, i ask my colleagues to be docile to the request of the presidency as regards the time of speaking time, and then i remind you that under the catch-the-eye procedure, those who feel that they have not finished their speaking time may ask to speak again, of course they will be given the floor after giving it to those who are speaking for the first time.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for your clear, timely and effective communication, for the concerns you have expressed this evening and also in the past days and weeks, for the calls we have made, fully aware that european legislation must be respected. we believe that the european parliament should never be turned into a sounding board for national polemics, even on such sensitive and dramatic issues. we believe that this is precisely the tragedy which calls for serious analysis, both in the specific case and in the wider issue of waste, which is not just a problem in naples and campania, but one which all communities have to face. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of biotechnology in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biotechnology in the community. italy, we must not forget, was one of the first countries to adopt a modern law in 1997, under the prodi government and minister ronchi, in line with what the european union has been saying for some time: environmental education, separate collection, safe storage, use of advanced recycling and reuse methods which are safe for citizens and the environment. this law has also found excellent applications and has also created sources of economy and employment. in campania this has not happened. what broke? what didn't work? there is no doubt that there are political responsibilities for those who have succeeded each other, from right to left, especially in the commission's work. it is not for us at this stage to ascertain any other kind of responsibility, which should be severely punished if there is one, but it would be dishonest of us all to throw the blame solely on politics. in campania, many other factors such as organized crime, a low civic sense and the historical lack of infrastructure have played a decisive negative role. the italian government is responding immediately, taking important decisions with the intention of giving responsibility back to local authorities, moving away from the logic of commissioning and ensuring self-sufficiency in waste disposal. i believe that these decisions also make it possible to respond convincingly to the legitimate demands of europe. it is now time to support these choices, it is now time to restore dignity to a city, a region and a country, italy, in which, to use the words of president napolitano, there is no lack of positive energy, of new realities.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must resist the temptation to be instrumental in this matter, allowing objectivity and intellectual honesty to prevail, without ignoring the contextual scenarios in which the problem is framed, namely: the interest of organized crime and its infiltration into waste management and therefore the countless illegal landfills scattered throughout campania; the unfailing acceptance of hazardous and toxic waste from other regions, in particular from northern italy; weaknesses of local ruling classes; the cultural backwardness of populations in the approach to waste as a resource; the cross-border location of the various cycle plants, even by representatives of the local catholic church; the divisions in the political world as well as in the scientific world, for example on disposal techniques; the inadequacy of the technologies chosen for the planned final disposal plants following a european tender held in campania in 1998. but today there is massive state intervention. politics has finally realised that it must do more, all politics, because in the last 14 years, in alternating between the roles of government and opposition at local, regional and national level, all political forces have failed to come up with firm, determined and coherent responses. the high level of solidarity shown by some regions in italy, including those of the centre-right, in helping campania at this very difficult time is therefore commendable, as they have helped to restore the image it deserves in terms of cultural attractiveness, landscape, productive resources and talent. this is not the time for flight or disengagement for those who have frontline responsibilities and who are paying for the faults of all politics. this is the moment of responsibility, and that is why i appreciate the cut that commissioner dimas has made in his speech, a constructive cut that makes us look at europe not only as a europe that sanctions, that is limited to sanctions, but as a europe that helps a member country to get out of the crisis.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the waste problem in campania is no longer just a health and environmental disaster, but has become an economic and institutional thriller. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. on 11 september 2007, the commission, in response to a question from me, expressed concern but hope that the urgent measures taken by the italian authorities would help to resolve the situation and stated that if the ongoing investigation revealed infringements of the rules, it would take the measures provided for in article 226 of the treaty. on 2 january 2008, the commission spokesman stated that the infringement procedure against italy had been initiated in june 2007. what is the truth? the one written on september 11th in response to me or the one stated by the spokesman? why does the commission not mention this infringement procedure in its reply? another thriller is that some european political groups close to the prodi government have spoken out against a joint resolution on the environmental and health disaster in campania which should have brought this debate to a close. when coincidences exceed the normal level of chance, the defence of an interest is more than likely, and when political interest, even unconsciously, marries with different interests, which may coincide with those of ecomafias, it is no longer a matter of right or left or just political incapacity. we strongly suspect that we have deliberately misled the european institutions for partisan reasons. the high level of dioxin in the territory, the continuing illegality, the unwillingness of parliament to take responsibility for a joint resolution, intersect with the political choices of the italian government, the campania region and the municipality of naples, which happen to have the same political matrix. we call for urgent action by olaf to verify the use of the funds allocated so far and to ensure the proper management of future funds. we ask the commission to clarify to parliament within 30 days from today who are responsible for this shameful and tragic emergency which is no longer just a regional emergency but a national and european one.
i would like to thank commissioner dimas for acting in these last weeks, in these last months, in the way that many environmentalists would like to see on other occasions, namely by acting in a strong, visible and above all audible way in defence of community legislation. i believe that this has not always been the case and i think that, from the point of view of the application of community legislation, there are a number of infringements which have been opened up by its institution in previous years - especially during the period of the government preceding the present one - which unfortunately have remained largely unheard of and which have above all been treated as a simple routine. i would like to mention the infringements of the landfill directive - there are over 4000 - and a whole series of other issues concerning the definition of waste, etc. this already foreshadowed the situation in which we find ourselves today. because it is clear that when a member state and a government, which at one time had a majority of 100 members, cannot do anything else with regard to waste legislation than simply violate community directives by trying to make loopholes, it is clear and obvious that situations of bad administration, bad management, crime and outright failure to comply are made even easier. so i am very grateful to the commission for its intervention, and i hope that it will continue to be absolutely vigilant because i think that it will be needed and i also think that getting out of emergency management is the absolutely fundamental condition for getting out of this situation. i also think the question of who is responsible is important. i agree with those who say that the commission must also put in place ways of monitoring the funds that have been spent and those that will be spent, because i believe that for all of us european citizens, and not just italians, the question of how funds can be used in a positive way is a very central question that concerns us all. that said, i am of the opinion that the measures of the italian government, especially those which have been described for the next three or four months, must be supported, while the rules of the game must be clear and must also be respected. i think it would be quite inappropriate to find ourselves in a situation where emergency is met by emergency, in breach of the rules, because where we are now is also a result of that breach.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dimas, for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. the european parliament has been a great help to us in this, and it reminds us that the way to deal with problems is to stick to european rules, to get out of the emergency logic that creates a new emergency. that is why this debate is important, because it can and must help us to solve the dramatic problems of waste in naples and campania. the immediate issue is not the controversy, of course, but the removal of the waste that creates a dangerous situation for the citizens. the government is working towards this, but an effective solution must be found and the reference to european standards is decisive in this respect. the commissioner reminds us that the european rules are clear, consolidated for decades and also reiterated in the new framework directive we are discussing. there's a hierarchy to deal with waste, and the hierarchy says, first reduction, then separate collection, then reuse and recycling and only lastly, if necessary, disposal. in italy it is too difficult to comply with these guidelines, and in naples and campania the situation has deteriorated. but we have problems elsewhere, as you can see from the infractions: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. too many exceptions to european environmental laws. i often say: the emergency created new emergencies. we now have to, and i am sure the government wants to, regulate ourselves and the rules are european, from environmental impact assessment to the waste hierarchy. that is why today's debate cannot be a forum for polemics but a time for discussion with the commissioner to promote this relationship between europe and the member states. i repeat: the first is the hierarchy, to make the best use of commonly agreed rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what capacity does the italian left have, and what complicity does it find in the european left, to insist that we talk about the shameful waste emergency in campania, which the centre-left has been governing for decades without voting. it is the same left that is plaguing us with global warming and is not concerned with ensuring a decent quality of life for millions of citizens of campania; and the good news is that i heard about the national interest to defend! these are the same national interest defenders who a couple of years ago discredited italy, its government and its law enforcement agencies by discussing and voting on the ghostly lampedusa case. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a very serious matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation in naples is particularly tragic because, instead of remedying the judgment of the court of justice condemning the waste and thus ensuring that waste management is in line with european legislation, time has been lost and we deeply regret this. if we do not want to risk the emergency situation in campania spreading to other regions, we must intervene by applying european standards, by producing waste heaters - despite the incredible resistance of certain pseudo-environmentalists such as minister pecoraro scanio - and by encouraging separate collection. but not all of italy is like campania, and fortunately in many regions such as lombardy, decisive steps have been taken which have produced an efficient system of waste collection and disposal. but in other regions the situation is very worrying. there is concern on the part of the citizens and this is the case in rome and lazio. some facts: the amount of waste is higher than that of naples and campania, 4,500 tonnes of garbage collected every day in rome against 1,000 in naples and 450 kilograms per capita in campania against 617 in lazio, even higher than the national average of 539 kilograms produced by an italian. all this is contained in a question which we have just put to the other members elected in rome. but the regional waste plan never got off the ground and there are already two infringement proceedings underway. alarmed citizens look with confidence to the european institutions, particularly the parliament and the commission. that is why, commissioner, we strongly urge you to ensure that at the meeting on 28th of this month the commission gathers data and information on the situation in rome and lazio by announcing an inspection, we hope that commissioner dimas himself will do so and we also propose that a delegation from this parliament should inspect the area, also to assess the degree of adequacy and, finally, the measures for 2008. the commissioner, before it is too late, must intervene.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president, this is not the first time. mr commissioner, on the 28th, as has just been mentioned, when you are in rome to discuss with our government, italy - and i believe europe - absolutely need the commission to be very firm in supporting the action of european justice. i think you mentioned that italy had a first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only problem is this: we have a massacre of lawlessness which necessarily produces massacres of lives and even greater massacres, not only in italy, and so what i hope, mr commissioner, is that the commission will bear in mind that we now have evidence that from italy, as in the 1920s, a new, different way is coming, a threat to all of our europe, that country which (...). (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste emergency in campania today is a tragedy that has been repeatedly announced, and those piles of garbage that you see on the streets are just the tip of an iceberg of inefficiencies, waste and bad business. we regret that this affair is damaging the image of the whole of italy and of the campania region, but to remain silent once again about responsibility and to turn a blind eye would help to keep an unresolved problem that has also degenerated because of silence and inertia, and if we do not have to make political polemics on people's skin, i do not think that a certain kind of goodwill that is also creeping into this house tonight is acceptable. we can no longer remain silent or justify, as the court of auditors has done, the fact that millions of euros of european, national and local funds have gone up in smoke. to whom should citizens turn for compensation for this environmental disaster, for the damage to their image and for the waste of public resources, and above all what measures does the commission intend to take to actually oblige the italian state to take appropriate measures, since even today children in naples and campania have not gone to school?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his lucid analysis. in naples and in much of campania the waste situation has deteriorated and the consequences are obvious to everyone, but we also have problems in other areas, as can be seen from the number of environmental infringements that italy has collected in recent years. i would like to mention the infamous cip6, which for years has equated waste-to-energy with renewable energy, with huge incentives that have been taken away from renewable energy development policies and given to powerful industrial lobbies that have caused serious distortions in waste management. what makes things even more dramatic in campania is the 14 years of entanglement and irresponsibility that led to the first waste lawsuit against companies and representatives of public institutions, and eventually to the appeal against impregilo to the european court for environmental disaster. the exit from the emergency must also mean a new style of local government: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the hierarchy established by europe in the new framework directive on waste is clear. only as an extreme ratio should disposal be used, otherwise we have to do sorting, recycling and so on. but today we must get out of a situation in campania that is in danger of reaching a point of no return and for this we need to mobilise all available resources and to call on the solidarity of the italian regions and on the help of the eu for immediate action in the next three or four months to remove the dangers for the citizens and to return naples to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from padua the situation in campania looks like science fiction, from padua where separate collection is carried out, where taxes on garbage are paid. the left in government in our country, think of a green environment minister, has to appoint the former chief of police as waste manager, it seems like something out of this world. we are saying clearly that campania is outside the european legal area, dominated by a shameful connection of politics and camorra which we have denounced for a long time. then stop funding, stop everything, commissioner, stop sending a lira to the camorra, to the criminals. they take their cue from the hardworking and honest north! let us free the honest people of campania from the domination of the camorra, in which various parties are entangled! we are totally out, we are against this mafia political rule! in order to help these people, our country needs federalism! we have to change things, change the system! free the honest people who work and produce in the south from the mafia rule! this is what honest padua says! (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that italy has no desire to comply with what are in fact european regulations. we are aware of this by the fact that it was the only country to abstain as a government, with a green minister for the environment, on the adoption in the council of the common position on the recent waste directive. i want to ask a question, because apart from the misfortune of having a green minister who is completely irresponsible and lacking any certainty in his actions, we have also had little interest in monitoring from the european commission itself, because we had funds in 2000-2006 and the p.o.r.s of campania were obviously used without the monitoring committee fully exercising its functions, otherwise it would have blocked funds that had not produced any efficiency on the ground. it is perhaps superfluous to recall who was president of the european commission at that time and who is now president of the council in italy with a green minister?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this new form of democracy. first of all, we congratulate the commissioner on his lucid analysis and hope that it will be followed up by concrete action, action which also involves - and we also ask the president of parliament - parliament, because the problem of waste in naples goes beyond the very essence of disposal, the environment and so on to become a national and european phenomenon as far as we are concerned. brief notes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in the same way as the waste that is dumped on the roads. the mass of waste, the total amount of waste, is increasing by the hour, and the situation is becoming more and more dramatic. secondly, a political notation. mr pittella said that the european parliament must not become a sounding board for national diatribes. well, the exact opposite is happening tonight in this debate from the centre-left. we recognize that and we will act accordingly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to speak because i am very concerned about the way the debate is taking place in italy and also a little bit here, also about the way the media is giving news to the citizens, because it seems that today in the face of disaster we must have a magic solution: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. so the citizens think that maybe someone from outside will come and solve this problem and the information does not dwell on the fact that if there is no reduction and differentiation of waste and different civic behavior, there will be no solution. this is the responsibility of the local authorities because they thought that by putting this problem in the hands of a company called impregilo, they had solved the problems. they have become irresponsible and have become conniving and subordinate to this power.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the waste heaters are working in italy and in the rest of europe. the collection is carried out in italy and the rest of europe. recycling is done in italy and the rest of europe. only in naples it hasn't been done for at least 15 years and this has happened under the eyes of all the institutions that should have intervened: the commission is also a member of the european parliament. i believe that little has been done and that more must be done, including by the commission, because the initiatives taken so far, even in these days, by the government are absolutely useless and unsuitable for the purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that analyses of the past are only useful if we want to use the future to put an end to the troubles that the past has caused. i do not think that is happening, because here, as usual, there are political backlashes and everyone takes the most convenient position. i think the only serious thing to do is to ask the commissioner to insist that the real problem be finally solved, which is that of separate collection, that it should provide for the means to enable it, that there should be rewards for those who do it and that there should be an extraordinary plan for the collection of cardboard and other materials. conai, the body that brings together producers and users of packaging, which is charged with the task of reusing the non-wet material, ends up collecting the price from the south and then paying it to the north, which as usual takes advantage of the situation to drain the funds from the south and take them to the north. this is a story that must end! we therefore ask the commissioner, whose initiatives we very much appreciate, to insist that the commission's role in campania is not to be used for the past, but to be used finally and once and for all for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i was elected to a political group which, when it was in government in italy, before the present government, had to deploy police forces in order to start the construction of regular waste disposal plants in campania, urgent works then obstructed by opponents, mr frassoni, who are now ministers in the government of romano prodi. in fact, prodi's recent statements, particularly on the subject of waste in campania, are proof of the total failure of the government he presides over. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter is a sign that the european parliament is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. it should be noted, however, that the serious problem facing the citizens of campania is confined to one of the 20 regions of italy and it is easy to identify the political and administrative responsibilities of some of the directors whose resignation we are calling for.
the debate is closed.
member of the commission. − i will not deny that i have drawn inspiration from parliament and its members many times, so i am glad that in this case it is regarding the specific investigation on air tickets. we actually picked air tickets for our first sweep quite deliberately. i do not want to sound defensive. i am doing what i am required by law. i have taken the advice of the commission’s legal services and can go further before the court procedures are over in certain member states. if the procedure in one member state takes four months, i cannot do anything. acting before that procedure is concluded would be in breach of national legislation, and would endanger the reputation of the commission. that is why i am waiting until these procedures are completed before the names are published.
the next item is the report by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on adult education and training: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
i would reassure mr pack by reminding him that the president's thanks are a proper and institutional expression of respect for the rapporteurs and the opinions expressed, even when they are far removed from their content.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be speaking this evening in a chamber which, i must say, is quite crowded. the report on adult education, 'it is never too late to learn', which mrs doris pack has presented to us today with the intelligence and skill with which we all know it. i am glad to have the commission representatives, commissioner figel, who is among the most active and enthusiastic in carrying out his work, because there is really a need for commitment, because this subject - that is, teaching and learning for people who are no longer young or working or old - is something that can really bring citizens closer to europe. i want to say something about a category of adults who can benefit from this learning: it's because there are first-grade adults, second-grade adults, third-grade adults. i mean third-graders who have finished their working life, are starting to retire and can finally devote themselves to studying that subject they have always wanted to study but have never been able to study and study in depth. i, for example, would study astronomy, someone else physics, someone geography. i think it is good and important that europe should facilitate the transition from working age to retirement age, but also to the right to learn, to learn and to be trained. that is why i am very pleased with this report and with this activity of the european parliament for the learning of the elderly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january 2008 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the matter under discussion tonight has been discussed in depth, more than once, in fact, in the committee on justice, which i have the honour of chairing, and the same committee has instructed me, through this question, to have a debate, to have a discussion with the commission. this is the status of the european parliament elected in poland, which has an exception to elections and all the rules concerning elections to other parliaments in other member states. the elections to the european parliament in poland are governed by the act of 23 january 2004, which lays down the eligibility requirements in article 9: 21 years old to be eligible to stand until the day of the vote, no criminal record for intentional crimes, residence in poland and a number of other requirements. chapter 17 of the same law provides for the circumstances in which a member of the european parliament in poland may lose his seat: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the basis of a series of combinations, as we lawyers say, a member of the european parliament loses his seat automatically - that is, a member of the european parliament automatically decays - if he is the subject of a criminal judgment which has been passed, but as regards members of the polish parliament, the law of 12 april 2001 - both for elections to the sejm and for elections to the senate of the republic - does not provide for such a provision, so we are faced with a regulation which concerns in particular the polish member of the european parliament and not the national deputy in poland. for this reason we have discussed and asked ourselves a question, one of which has implications for the immunity request, and as you know, we have - and as commissioner frattini knows better than i do - the power to decide on this question. it is clear that if a member is automatically deprived of immunity in respect of a case in which immunity cannot be defended, there is an additional problem, an additional perplexity. for this reason, we ask, i ask on behalf of the committee, the commissioner whether he does not consider that the polish legislation on the election of the national parliament violates article 10 of the protocol on privileges and immunities, which provides that for the duration of the sessions of the european parliament, members shall enjoy on the national territory the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of their country. and so there is a clear contradiction where the loss of a seat as a member of the polish parliament is therefore foreseen, without any provision for the same treatment for members of the national parliament. but i also ask the commission whether it intends to bring an action before the court of justice to have poland amend this legislation and apply the treaty correctly, because we see a diversity and a contradiction with the treaty. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he can answer these two questions and whether he can find a solution to the problems i have mentioned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a quick follow-up: i am satisfied that the debate as a whole has recognised that this is an important and a sensitive issue. i would like to thank in particular commissioner frattini, who, as a jurist, has gone further and has given further details on a matter which, of course, is not just poland's, and frattini is right. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this. however, i must say that it is a fact, not an apparent contradiction, that polish law is contrary to the treaty as regards guarantees, because if a polish member of parliament were to resign, the article of the treaty which states that there is a possibility of being able to participate in the sessions would obviously be lost. so, personally, the committee, as you heard in the last debate from medina, as i personally, is not interested in an appeal, but in following up the matter to resolve it. if my polish colleague, mr zwiefka, says that this problem has already been raised in poland, that can be a source of satisfaction. we want homogeneity, because homogeneity makes europe a guarantee of unity of states competing as a whole, citizenship and equal rights in terms of freedom and status for each one.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on transport i am expressing my favourable opinion of the stockmann report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on airport charges. i think it is appropriate, however, to make some distinctions, particularly as regards the link between airport charges and the cost of the services offered. the french and dutch delegations, supported by italy, asked for a clear reference to costs. in this respect, it should be noted that italian domestic legislation provides in any event for a specific relationship between the costs of the services provided and the tariffs applied by the operator. the provision in paragraph 5 makes the italian system more consistent with the implementation of the directive, allowing the current procedures to be maintained, provided that the independent supervisory body provided for in article 10, which ensures that tariffs are correctly applied, and the body which approves tariff levels at national level are brought together in the same authority. it should be noted that the independence of this body will have to be guaranteed both in relation to operators and airlines.
in writing. - i welcome the implementation of the rotterdam convention as an important step towards europe's awareness of its commitments to third countries, and especially developing countries, in the field of environmental protection and health. from now on, dangerous chemicals cannot be exported to non-european countries without prior informed consent from the recipient countries (pic prior informed consent procedures). we had to put an end to the discracy that had been created whereby a substance was strictly regulated in the european market to protect the environment and the health of european citizens and, on the other hand, could be freely marketed in third countries without any precautions or any obligation to inform on the risks. it is a measure of civility and solidarity, especially towards countries which have less information and risk analysis facilities than the european union.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, we are quite sentimental about europe and the value it has had as an element of peace and democracy and what it could have in strengthening the freedom and well-being of people and in representing a pole of innovation and coherence in the governance of global environmental challenges. so we are really happy to have you here today and we are a little sorry that this experience might remain in some way unique, because among the reforms of the lisbon treaty as you know there is also the election of the president of the european council and this worries us, also because among the candidates who have been nominated there are some who i do not think would do much to advance the cause of europe. having said that, i would like to touch on a few specific points which are particularly relevant to the greens/european free alliance. during his presidency, and this fact has also been mentioned by the president of the commission, the so-called energy package will be presented: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that your presidency will have a key role in resisting these pressures from big and small to limit and weaken the impact of these regulations. we will also continue our battle on the merits, on which i think we will disagree. we believe that a low-carbon economy - and i am also addressing the president of the commission - is not a nuclear economy; the fact that the european union is not yet able to finance and spend time on a new nuclear power plant that does not yet exist, or on expensive and uncertainly applicable techniques such as carbon sequestration and storage, is in direct competition with the real renewable energies that must be promoted and financed: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. another important issue during your presidency will be the coordination of territorial and urban development, which will be of great value in the run-up to the spring summit and which refers to the follow-up to the leipzig charter: the protection of the quality of our cities and the strengthening of territorial cohesion are perhaps less fashionable elements than others, but we consider them absolutely crucial for the fight against climate change. the waste legislation will probably also be completed during your presidency. we are very concerned, not only about what is happening in my country, in naples, but also because it seems to us that the lip service to the hierarchy, which makes prevention, reuse and reuse the priority, is in fact contradicted by the text of this legislation which once again puts incinerators on the altars, which in our view are certainly not the only way to solve the waste problem. two important issues in trade and the issue of data protection, mr president, on which i would really like to see whether your presidency will be really friendly to this institution or not. you will have to clash with some of your colleagues on the issue of the assent of the european parliament to the economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, which seems to us more indispensable than ever after the sharp contrasts with the african countries that emerged in lisbon. then there is the freedom of access to the negotiating documents for partnership and cooperation agreements with countries such as china. i think that the european parliament has received absolutely nothing to tell us how these negotiations are going. everything is done in the strictest secrecy! we believe that there should be an open debate on this and that this parliament should at least be informed of what is happening. finally, mr president, on the question of data protection. we know that the council is planning to take a decision during its six-month presidency, but we ask you to take a bold step, namely to ask that the implementation of this framework decision be postponed until after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, because this would allow parliament to enter directly into the reform and my colleague will speak to you about it again later, mr president, during your presidency of the first national conference on roma. this would be an important contribution to intercultural dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as president barroso said, the slovenian presidency is in itself a historic event and it gives us an opportunity to reflect on the relationship between europe and the balkans. there is no doubt that it is not immune to criticism also because of the elements of disintegration it has brought about, but now europe must play the opposite role by fostering processes of peace and rapprochement, which are fostered precisely by its relationship with europe. that is why we must avoid unilateral acts on kovoso, on which there must be a common european policy, as the new treaty says. we must face up to the problems posed by the new frontiers that the entry of some into europe has brought to others. we need an active policy of social, economic and environmental integration that looks at the whole area and frankly i do not see nuclear as a solution to the energy problems. finally, i would like to remind the slovenian presidency that the problem of the so-called 'deleted' persons, that is to say, former yugoslav citizens who now have citizenship problems in slovenia, must be solved once and for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president janez, welcome on behalf of that radical party and those comrades who rushed for your release, with the comrades and friends of the magazine mladina at the end of 1988. you were in prison for two things: democracy and europe. today you are presiding over a european union which is breaking and abolishing the anthem and the flag, falsifying - beware, mr president - with the eurogroup even the traditional geopolitical boundaries on our european coins. you are for enlargement, this is the same europe that was insensitive to the yugoslav tragedy, today it is for turkey and all the enlargements we want. we were and i was in ljubljana even when there were air raids from serbia. at that time we were meeting with skolk, with the youth of azmss, with president kučer and even with our friend kačin. you were fighting for a different europe then from the one that betrayed you, which wanted a neutral yugoslavia because it was convenient for it. if you are what you have been, on behalf of your slovenia, you will be spinelli's europe, not us, who represent europe, not us, who often represent its scrap. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, as an italian i am particularly pleased to welcome the fact that slovenia is holding the presidency of the council, that slovenia is the country to inaugurate the presidencies of the countries which have just joined the european union and that slovenia is now in the common schengen area together with other european countries. as president, you have a key task, which is to give a strong impetus to the process of ratification of the treaty of lisbon. it is a treaty which will give this parliament greater powers of codecision, which will enable it to decide by qualified majority on certain highly strategic issues, and all this in areas where the fundamental rights of citizens will be given greater attention and protection: i am thinking of judicial cooperation, i am thinking of legal immigration. we are therefore proposing that in the coming months we should try to find a way of reaching an interinstitutional agreement governing the transitional phase on certain matters: i am thinking, for example, of the dossier on europol which will be voted on tomorrow and tomorrow this parliament will ask you to commit yourself to consulting the european parliament as the council within six months of the entry into force of the treaties in the light of the new legal rules which these treaties will offer us. and again on the common immigration policy, i would ask you to commit yourself to a certain framework, the fight against illegal immigration can only be done within the tenacious, convinced and punctual respect of fundamental rights, also to avoid what happened a few months ago, namely that hundreds of human beings remain hanging in the tuna nets in a vain attempt to cross the mediterranean to get to europe.
in writing. thank you, mr president, this six-month term of the slovenian presidency begins at a time when europe is once again experiencing a wave of moderate optimism about the future of the union. after a few years of embarrassment and uncertainty, the time has come to launch the project of a europe of 27. i would like to ask the president-in-office to reflect on one point: the two seats of the european parliament. at a time when we are constantly asking the citizens of our respective countries to make sacrifices, we would really send a strong signal by deciding to concentrate all our work in brussels. the cost of this "monthly shift" in terms of financial resources and organizational responsibilities is becoming unbearable to the public, who do not understand the reasons for this absurd situation. the strasbourg seat, which is also a beautiful city, could be used for other prestigious purposes within the eu's activities. let us set a good example and, on this subject, let us go from words to deeds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a point of order. i do not wish to interfere with the procedure, but i would like to know whether there is a rule that obliges you to state, in addition to the result, the number of votes cast, the number of abstentions and so on, or whether it is your choice.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the lechner report on consumer credit. i think it is essential that the european union should have a general framework for the protection of citizens in a field which has undergone considerable development in recent years. in italy in particular, the use of the consumer credit instrument has seen an exponential increase in turnover. and very often consumers, even in the wake of seductive advertising campaigns, have resorted to it without fully knowing their rights and contractual conditions, and then found themselves bound by a whole series of clauses and obligations. in this context, i therefore stress the need to increase the level of consumer protection, including through the instrument of the directive.
on behalf of the pse group. the socialist group welcomes the approval of the europol report and the proposal to convert europol into an agency of the european union. after a long, very long wait, we are finally in a position to turn europol into a concrete and effective instrument in the fight against organised crime, but also against many other dangerous types of crime that are now manifesting themselves in a european dimension, i am thinking, for example, of the actions that europol will be able to take in the field of money laundering. our group wanted to strengthen the powers of scrutiny provided for in the proposal towards genuine parliamentary scrutiny, not just limited to budgetary powers of course, and we wanted to strengthen provisions on personal data protection and data security, particularly in the absence of a good framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, which is still a long way off. but we cannot ignore, as our colleague díaz de mera garcía has pointed out, that the picture has changed in the meantime: the signing of the treaty of lisbon creates a near future in which police cooperation will be subject to the co-decision of the european parliament and thus to our full responsibility, to the qualified majority in the council and to the jurisdiction of the court of justice. that is why we are asking the slovenian presidency for a formal commitment to submit a review of the dossier to the european parliament within six months of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. finally, the socialist group still believes that it would have been more appropriate, on such a sensitive issue, for the rapporteur to take a step back from the events which have involved him politically in his country. our group has nevertheless decided to make its contribution on a matter which we consider to be strategic for the process of european integration.
i am also of the opinion that we need a transnational police force which can deal with the fight against international crime, which has lost its characteristic of being confined to national borders. it is only a few days ago that the italian parliamentary anti-mafia committee visited germany and was able to see that a great deal of the economic resources invested in germany are obtained through a mechanism which directly involves sicilian and calabrian crime. so i think this is emblematic of how there is a real need to combat the crime phenomenon on an international basis, including by activating european police tools. i believe that europol can do this work, but i have some doubts whether the transformation of europol into an agency can immediately be of any value in terms of saving lives. we have an obligation to take stock of europol's activities from 1994 to the present day and i also believe that there is probably a need to review europol's mission in concrete terms, because i believe that it should be primarily concerned with the fight against drug trafficking, the fight against money laundering and the fight against transnational mafias. i think there is also a problem with the need to recognize the full powers of parliament. parliament must have the power of control - this is the case for all national parliaments which have the power of control over national police forces - and i believe that the european parliament must have control over a european agency whose primary tasks are policing and combating international crime; i think we also need to have some clarification on data protection. i am very concerned that the proposal, as it has been and will probably be voted on by the council, contains serious shortcomings which are likely to seriously damage the individual data of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pakistan today is indeed the most dangerous place, the central tangle where all the threads of terrorism are tied. but at the same time, it is the west's main ally against terrorism. this contradiction cannot be avoided, just as it will not be possible to end the war in afghanistan without resolving it. the present european policy is of little use, at least as long as it supports the policy of the united states. we can and must ask musharraf to restore the constitution and hold regular elections. but the strange and tragic assassination of benazir bhutto tells us that we are powerless, and we are because terrorism in pakistan is inside the state structures, indeed promoted by them, by those secret services that let's not forget built the taliban and still support and help them. but then we should ask musharraf to clean up and the united states, which has very close relations with those services, to clarify those relations, because if osama bin landen is still alive, it is thanks to those services, unless he has already been killed. besides, benazir bhutto i want to remember said this in an interview with al jazeera on november 2, 2007, she also said the name of the assassin, omar sheikh, the one that musharraf in his latest book suspects as a former collaborator of the british mi6. in the light of all this, i believe that the request for an international commission of inquiry into the death of benazir bhutto would be a right decision for europe.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission by jan marinus wiersma, hannes swoboda, katalin lévai, adrian severin, jan andersson, on behalf of the pse group, on a european strategy for the roma (o-0081/2007/riv. 1 - b6-0389/2007), the oral question to the commission by viktória mohácsi, on behalf of the alde group, on a european strategy for the roma (o-0002/2008 - b6-0003/2008) the oral question to the commission by lívia járóka, on behalf of the ppe-de group, on a european community action plan for the roma communities (o-0003/2008 - b6-0004/2008) the oral question to the commission by roberta angelilli, on behalf of the uen group, on a european strategy for the roma community (o-0004/2008 - b6-0005/2008)
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the report on the european strategy for the rights of the child was adopted. the fight against poverty and discrimination is also a priority. we wanted to dedicate a specific paragraph to roma children, who often live in conditions of exclusion in health, social and schooling. as is well known, a very high percentage of roma children do not attend school or attend it occasionally. many roma children are even forced to attend separate schools, if not institutions for the disabled. the data available tell us that in some member states the drop-out rate of roma children exceeds 60%. it is clear that a child who does not go to school, who is illiterate or who has insufficient education or vocational training, is a child without a future, who may be forced to beg or to work underground, whose fate is sealed, who will be condemned at best to poverty and social exclusion, and at worst to organized crime. it is worth mentioning, among other things, that the roma population is a very young population, with about 45% of individuals under the age of 16; it is therefore very useful and important that the commission should provide for specific and above all concrete measures for roma children, particularly with regard to combating school drop-outs and promoting adequate and quality schooling. without the right to study, there is no guarantee of equal treatment and, above all, no right to a future.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, although prompted by oral questions to the commission, is in fact the natural continuation of an initiative which parliament has already taken some time ago and on which it has also recently spoken. it is clear that an action plan is needed to improve the situation of the roma, given the low level of integration of this minority in the social and civil context of the territories of the european union. the transnational character of the roma, which is one of their peculiarities, posits the need, which i personally share, to prepare a european strategy so that they can get out of the worrying situation of degradation in which they live, very often close to an inhuman living condition, which certainly represents the effect of social exclusion and the triggering cause of consequent and various phenomena: from dislike of the host country to degeneration into violence exercised or suffered. alongside guidelines to help local and national authorities to address the social hardship faced by minorities in a member country, sufficient funds are needed to support the actions to be undertaken. but it is not just a question of funding. the real goal is to ensure equal access to employment, education, housing, health, social services and the necessary framework for exercising civil rights starting from decision-making processes. this implies an integrated approach to the problem of the call for proposals for actions to achieve these objectives. that is why i am personally opposed to the responsibility for the roma issue being placed on a single european commissioner. two years after the start of the decade of roma inclusion (2005-2015) there are still many commitments that the governments that have joined the decade of roma inclusion must initiate and honour. i would like to know what action the commission intends to take in this regard and i hope that it will be taken as soon as possible, immediately after the european year of equal opportunities and during the year of intercultural dialogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for what she has said and for the commitments she has made, which also seem to me to be in line with what has been repeatedly approved in the european parliament's resolutions, but these promises of action alone are not enough. i would like to ask what instruments the commission is using and what the commission can tell us about the use of the funds which have been made available to the states under various headings of expenditure for the integration of the roma. secondly: the commission is also examining the practical application of the adopted directives at national level. thirdly: i join those who call for a single interlocutor within the commission to deal with all roma issues. i can only say that we are facing a very strong wave of racism and stigmatisation, especially towards the roma, and in particular that italy has not fully transposed directive 43 of 2000 against ethnic discrimination. i would therefore ask what action the commission intends to take in this respect. the concept of racial harassment, the question of burden-sharing and evidence, protection against abuse suffered as a result of racial discrimination have not been included in italian legislation. and i ask the commission again whether it is aware that in a not small italian municipality, namely milan, migrant children, who in this case are mostly roma, whose parents are not in compliance with the legislation and with their residence permits, cannot attend compulsory schools. this seems to me to be in total contradiction with all the documents of the european union, it seems to me to be in contradiction with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and also with what we approved this morning in the resolution on the rights of the child. finally, i would like to point out that the italian government is discussing yet another decree law in relation to the roma issue itself, and that is to say, the question arises of whether it is possible that there is a reference to economic purposes among the reasons for which it is possible to invoke the expulsion of a citizen of another member state from the country, in this case from italy. beyond the general question of immigration, this decree specifically addresses the roma. i'd like to know what you think.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. let me summarize this again. it was a very interesting debate and we all see very clearly the need to react here. i understand that you all want a quick response. i can tell you that there is also a directive, namely directive 2000/43/ec, which already guarantees the application of the principle of equal treatment without distinction of race or ethnic origin in the areas of employment, social affairs, education, access to and supply of goods and services, and which also applies to roma. i think that is also important here. this directive then also makes positive measures possible in the member states. it is true, however, that the member states are not obliged to incorporate those measures into their national legislation. but european legislation must be applied and i can say that we as the commission are determined to ensure that it is. the commission has therefore initiated infringement proceedings last year against 22 member states which have failed to implement european rules properly, including, mr agnoletto, italy. the european social fund is also our main instrument for integrating people into the labour market. a substantial part of the measures aimed at improving the employability of roma can be co-financed by this european social fund. for example, between 2000 and 2006, some €275 million went to projects specifically targeting roma integration. the high-level expert group on the integration of ethnic minorities has highlighted that certain esf-supported projects, such as acceder in spain, are exemplary in terms of effective roma integration. i would therefore like to make a further urgent appeal to the national authorities to make use of this possibility. i agree with mr swoboda that it is not only the national bodies, but also, of course, often the local bodies that play an important role here. the social exclusion of roma is indeed - as we all know - a complex phenomenon, which requires a unified approach to tackle, including all the important aspects of roma life: education, employment, health, housing, infrastructure. this approach requires effective coordination at the level of the european institutions. i am convinced that with these measures we will make real progress next year. i have heard, of course, that some of you - not all of you - would like to have your own commissioner to deal with this issue, and i will of course pass this on to my colleague mr špidla. but these are very different issues, so i think the most important thing is good coordination. the other question will certainly be discussed with mr špidla again. i would like to make a few brief remarks on some of the points which were raised in the debate. the first is the question of dialogue with civil society and with the roma themselves. i believe that such a dialogue is very important - especially for the action taken on behalf of the roma and their children - in order to guarantee the principle of non-discrimination on the one hand, to combat unemployment on the other, to promote the social development of the regions where the roma live, to overcome the barrier, especially in the minds of the majority, and to make the roma truly part of this european culture. i agree with all those who have mentioned this. personally, and everyone who knows me knows that this is perhaps a kind of foreign policy hobby of mine, i have always been a champion of human rights education. the issue of tolerance education has been raised. i can only say that from my point of view i will certainly bring into this communication the issue of human rights education, which i consider to be of enormous importance. mrs de groen-kouwenhoven, i must say that the commission may be slow, but it is certainly not lazy. if you look at the many programmes that the european council and, above all, the osce have put in place, especially with the support of the european commission, you will see that there are certainly very positive approaches. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would just like to say that it is important to bear in mind that the union does not have the competence to define minorities in the member states itself. they also know that in this context it is important to bear in mind that social policy measures are not oriented towards ethnic origin but always towards individual needs. but as you know, the member states in particular have very different views on what constitutes a minority and how to define it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if not, i'll be happy to pass this along. i'm sure you'll have a statement on that soon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 january 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mrs lydie polfer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a more effective eu policy for the south caucasus: the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs for their comprehensive and detailed report, and i will briefly dwell on one aspect. in georgia we had elections, elections which the osce confirms as regular and which russia disputes, elections which re-elected the outgoing president saakashvili, who, amidst a thousand difficulties, tried to bring democracy to the country, discarding the old post-soviet diplomacy and opening up to the west, nato and the eu. this very openness has caused retaliation from putin's russia, which has always supported, among other things, the autonomist uprisings in south ossetia and abkhazia. but beyond the geopolitical situation, another factor of friction with russia is objectively the oil and gas pipelines on georgian territory, intended to carry azerbaijan's oil and gas to the west. i believe that in a caucasian chessboard, which, as we remember, is marked by the escalating war between armenia and azerbaijan, the chechen question, the turkish-armenian conflict and a hundred other problems, having a democratic country and our ally, which also offers an energy alternative to moscow, is a factor of strategic importance. so let us concretely strengthen this synergy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my full support for this report, the fruit of a long and excellent work carried out by mr michael cashman. following the transformation of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia into an agency for the defence and promotion of human rights, and after the latter was officially established on 1 march 2007, the agency has been completely inoperative due to the lack of a director and a multiannual framework. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. i therefore urge all members to support this report, which is a first step towards the agency's operation. support for eu policies for the defence of human rights and their development cannot and must not depend on considerations and delays of a political-economic nature.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra on the establishment of the european police office (europol). the changing circumstances within the european union, new forms of crime and new terrorist threats require a re-modulation of the existing body. i think, however, that some points should be clarified. the transformation of europol into an agency of the european union must not lead to a further burden on the finances of the member states and above all to a drain on the already insufficient state funds reserved for national law enforcement agencies. on the contrary, the investigative and law enforcement bodies must be better protected and strengthened. europol's action must be to support and coordinate the fundamental and irreplaceable role of the law enforcement agencies of the various member states. in this connection, i am pleased that the proposal contains provisions on the coordination, organisation and conduct of investigations and operational measures jointly with the competent authorities of the member states or in the framework of joint investigation teams.
in writing. the resolution we are about to vote on must be supported and voted for by the uen group. we hope that there will soon be stronger internet regulation aimed at protecting children and a more decisive fight against those providers who host child pornography sites. it is necessary that measures aimed at the immediate closure of illegal sites be taken by all the member states of the union through more effective coordination of the relevant police forces. we also hope that the sensitive issue of the information that terrorist organisations continue to exchange via the internet will be addressed and that it will be the subject of future forums. there can be no freedom without rules and especially the internet cannot and must not be the ground of freedom for those who commit criminal acts and preach hatred and intolerance. an emergency situation must be dealt with by decisive and urgent measures and not by sudden ones. the fight against terrorism and hatred between peoples must be the rule and the objective of the european union and of all democratic and free countries.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is a good sign that europe is serious about following the right lines which we have helped to define and build. but that is precisely why i want to say, with sincerity, that there are also points in these proposals which raise my perplexity and not my sympathy. they concern the excessive weight of biofuels, despite the growing doubts raised by many parties; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. they relate to the excessive weight of co2 capture techniques compared to other best practices; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. we are therefore in danger of undermining the credibility of europe, which must be strengthened at a decisive stage such as that opened up by the bali conference. the conditions for the signing of the post-kyoto agreement were set in bali. to achieve this - and we must - we will need a great deal of political will and the ability to build a complex framework, but also consistency. the political will must be to see the climate issue as the real test bed for europe and for a different kind of globalisation. consistency requires that we move in the direction of 3 and 20% reduction in emissions, energy saving and the use of renewable energy. the first is to identify a priority package of measures to be adopted next year, i.e. before the dissolution of parliament and the new elections. in addition to the 3% and 20% reductions, it must include measures on cars and aircraft which make the overall reduction commitments credible, including through vertical policies. that is why we are proposing serious derogations in sectors such as the steel industry. the complexity of a strong agreement requires a new scenario of globalisation, no longer based on competition but on cooperation and technology transfer. it is also crucial to think about new areas, such as the calculation of emissions per capita proposed by mrs merkel, and about adaptation, which particularly concerns those continents such as africa which pollute less and are more dramatically affected by climate change. it is precisely in this context, in the face of the tragedy of africa, that we shall measure the value and seriousness of our europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the importance of the fact that you, the president, have decided to come and inform us in real time of the adoption of the package, which has been so laboriously put together, so to say, packaged, to which we must not forget to add another decision which you adopted in december, namely the proposal for a regulation on cars, which is part of this package to a certain extent. i will not comment on the contents of the package itself, because i have a bad habit of judging when i know the texts, of going into them, of evaluating them in all their articulations. we will try to see whether the balances you have found are the right ones, or whether they can and should be further refined and improved. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the results of the work carried out by the committee on budgets. i am raising a political question, however, which has already been raised by mr musacchio, and which concerns us all. i share your opinion on bali. it was not a glass half full or half empty, but it was a great political success. just three months ago, no one would have bet a dime on this. the union confirmed its global leadership, but it also increased its responsibilities. we have more responsibility, we cannot go to poznan and then to copenhagen empty-handed, we must go there with facts. you have done your part in defining this package, but it is now up to us legislators - parliament and council - to adopt it and make it binding. that will not be easy in the short time we have. the legislature has entered its final phase, much like co2 emissions should be in 2015, when they should peak and then start to decline. we've already touched that roof. so we need some kind of informal agreement, some kind of special working procedure, to see that as many of these dossiers as possible are finalised within this parliament, otherwise we will have empty hands when we negotiate the next steps in bali. this concerns parliament, which must play its part, perhaps avoiding conflicts of competence which can cost us months, it concerns the council, which can start informal cooperation with us, as has been done in other cases, very early on, but it also concerns you. you came a little late today because you obviously had some things to discuss. in comparison with other dossiers i have heard of, it would be good if you maintained a certain degree of unity, even externally.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the energy and climate package, which unfortunately we do not know very well, the commission has made a twofold breakthrough: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the kyoto commitments and improve the european energy mix and supply. we particularly welcome the commitment to promote the spread of renewable energy, greater flexibility in the authorization of state aid granted to promote environmental objectives, and the development of clean sources and technologies for controlling emissions. however, the package contains some sensitive points for the competitiveness of our enterprises. barroso himself has reported costs of around €60 billion. however, the impact of these charges remains to be seen. the forecast of an auction system for allowances, the estimated cost of around €39 per tonne of co2, the extension to the transport and construction sectors are causing considerable concern to the industries and are likely to affect final consumers. against this bleak background, the commission and above all the member states must do their utmost to reduce the economic and social impact of these measures. i reiterate that europe's leading role in the world in the fight against climate change is unquestionable and indisputable. however, we must bear in mind that this position corresponds to the opposite of our global competitors in many key sectors of the economy. we agree, in conclusion, with the points that have been underlined and highlighted by president barroso. we must certainly work hard to define commitments and results and give more strength to the package presented, which must not be virtual but must be loyal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for presenting this energy and climate change package, on whose priority we are in complete agreement. the directive on the promotion of renewable energy sources, however, does not seem to me to stress enough the urgency of promoting technologies for the direct conversion of biomass into gas, which allow for many applications, in particular for overall efficiency compared to conventional combustion. another point i feel i must make is the directive on the storage of carbon dioxide. first, the financial aid seems to favour the coal and oil sector in particular. this choice is not acceptable, considering that there are different options for carbon capture in energy production processes, such as the use of microalgae in water. one last note: if we are to use coal, let us at least promote the technology of converting it into a cleaner and more efficient gas. i reserve the right, of course, to examine the final documents.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, i fully agree with the guidelines set out today by president barroso on the commission's proposal. this is a major challenge for europe which cannot be postponed any longer. the proposed targets, and in particular the 20% reduction in emissions by 2020, can be achieved despite the many difficulties to be faced. but what is needed is a common commitment by all countries to an energy policy that can tackle the climate change emergency and finally free europe from its dependence on imports and, consequently, from the continuing rise in energy prices. the issues of security of supply and renewable energy sources should also be highlighted. this requires a programme of diversification of energy resources. greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced by using nuclear power, clean coal and renewable energy sources that are low carbon. in particular, efforts must be concentrated on nuclear research ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. i welcome the energy and climate package that the commission has presented to us. it is important that the european union continues to play a leading role in the fight against climate change, and therefore it must make a serious commitment to reach the '20, 20, 20 by 2020' target (a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% energy saving target and 20% renewable energy). however, i would remind the commission that at present the only technology at a mature design stage which can guarantee real energy efficiency and a substantial reduction in co2 emissions is nuclear. some european countries are already well ahead in this respect, others are organizing themselves, others still - and this is the case of italy - are at the pole: what has been objectively lacking in the past, however, is a common regulatory framework and, more generally, an overall union strategy on the subject. it is time for the european commission to take the initiative without hesitation, because the international situation requires choices, even courageous ones if necessary. it is the future of our economy and, indirectly, our ability to make our voice heard for respect for rights in every corner of the world, without fear of conditioning and blackmail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, iranian president ahmadinejad told busher in the south of the country today that israel is a dirty zionist entity which will eventually fall. that is an unacceptable statement and clearly propaganda. on 14 march, iran will hold political elections, in which your broken promises will count more than your proclamations. the united states is also in the midst of an election campaign, so we must be factual. today iran is the rising power in the gulf and washington is trying to negotiate a deal with it. in december, us intelligence determined that iran posed no immediate threat. on 12 january, the director-general of the iaea, elbaradei, received assurances from the iranians that all the questions still open were answered. pressure on iran must be maintained, but it is necessary to reach an agreement which is beneficial to all and to the stability of the region, avoiding radical and often ineffective measures. it is enough to recall iraq and the ineffectiveness of the sanctions against it. the role of iran in the new balance of power on the chessboard must be recognised and credible security guarantees offered to it in such a turbulent regional context. a direct american involvement is essential for the success of the negotiations, which must now be comprehensive, as the european union is doing. on the other hand, it is absolutely clear that iran must take appropriate responsibility: the european union must not be allowed to play a role in the world economy, but must be able to play a constructive role in the solution of conflicts, respect for human rights and women's rights and, more generally, democratic rules. recently, nobel peace prize winner shirin ebadi sent me an email denouncing the serious and increasingly frequent violations of human rights. "this is, more than the nuclear one, the most dramatic front in iran today", he writes to me. let's try to hear it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe, also in the light of what i have heard during this debate, that the only way forward is certainly through dialogue, although it is difficult to see on what basis this dialogue can develop. how can we talk to a country which does not respect the rights of children and which extends the death penalty to minors? with the country, or more correctly with the regime, of hangings in the streets, a regime that threatens to want to erase the state of israel? and on the nuclear question, should we overlook or at least doubt the peaceful use of nuclear energy? how much should we believe in military plans for national defense? and again, can we trust a regime that funds guerrilla warfare in neighboring countries? i would also ask you not to have any illusions about the reliability of the cia report. it is not the first time, however, that these reports have been blatantly denied. we cannot deny anyone the possibility of nuclear testing for civilian and non-military purposes, but president ahmadinejad not only gives no guarantees, not only gives no guarantees at all, but actually makes people fear the worst. i believe that by excluding the option of military intervention, which is far from the minds of all representatives and parliamentarians of the european union, and thus avoiding military intervention - this is fundamental and basic - i believe that the option of sanctions would be a defeat for everyone and would penalise the economy, would penalise a defenseless, ignorant and innocent people. i would again urge the use of diplomacy, because i repeat that sanctions have never done any good, they only serve to fuel further hatred towards the west and the united states in particular.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in reaffirming the right of peoples to energy self-determination, i welcome the union's attempt to negotiate and i support the synergy of the iaea-iran working plan. it is commendable and useful for avoiding anxiety, also in order to weaken political and strategic speculations based on the hypothetical threat to peace. moreover, paragraph 5 of the resolution also acknowledges the need to abandon rhetorical political speculation on iran. the whole first part of the resolution and the call for the creation of a new multilateral framework for the use of nuclear energy are acceptable. the second part is rather demagogic. human rights violations in many parts of the world do not result in such high and swift sentences. the recent resolutions on pakistan and china have not had the same energy, nor the same clear support for the domestic opposition. this obliges me to express my opposition to the resolution, because human rights and freedoms are absolute values which are not subject to any differential application, nor are they open to any disparity between the one who asks and the one who condemns.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a child died in gaza at the shifa hospital, 80 died in the hospital in gaza because they cannot go to israel for treatment. today the israeli court of justice ruled in favour of the government, that is, barak, in blocking and reducing the supply of fuel. this is the situation! solana wondered what we europeans could do. the commissioner said we have to make a difference. the difference is the truth. the difference is the courage not just to say, "i know you are working very hard, you are always there to work, you suffer with us for the suffering of palestinians and israelis", but please, we need to act! we need to tell the israeli government clearly that if it wants to help salam faiad and mahmoud abbas, it must not only stop closing gaza, but it must stop killing as it did yesterday in bethlehem, it must stop ghettoizing palestinians in the west bank. it's not just gaza. gaza has become the strong image, but the occupation continues every day. peace is essential for all, it is essential for the palestinians and the israelis. we must stop the ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. - i would like to make a very brief comment on this really difficult subject. we also had a long discussion on this matter at the foreign ministers' council on monday. i can tell you that we are not only discussing this, of course, but we have adopted a strategy together with the united states, the palestinians, the israelis, the european union and, of course, the quartet, the united nations and russia. this strategy was that on the one hand - i mentioned this earlier when i spoke at annapolis, but very briefly - there is a bilateral negotiation process between president abbas and prime minister olmert, and on the other hand we are trying - this is more my part, so to speak, in the commission - to bring about a new development for the people, that there is progress, knowing that this is enormously difficult. i was always very aware of this, but of course we wanted and we want to do everything we can to be helpful. that is why our policy is to help president abbas to bring peace through his talks, and then to use this to promote a process of reconciliation with hamas. that was the whole idea of this strategy. we want to continue to support further meetings. there has been a meeting between olmert and abbas in the last few days, which we know was not very substantive, but that is also understandable because all the meetings are overshadowed by a very difficult situation at the moment. we must continue along this path. we have the opportunity to make a lot of things happen by the time of the next meeting in moscow if we support both sides. this is the one side. the other side is the humanitarian side and the economic side. i would like to say to those who may not have read my statement: on 21 january i made a very clear statement on the situation in gaza, because i too saw that things had gone too far. this, together with other statements by foreign ministers and international organisations, has led to an improvement in the situation. the blockade will not be completely lifted, of course, but the situation will be significantly improved. that means - and i am replying to you, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou - that many supplies are actually going into gaza, and that is just to deal with the humanitarian aspect. yet we know that this is not enough. i am aware, of course, that this is extremely difficult, mr cohn-bendit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, at the moment we are still pursuing this common strategy which we have jointly defined and want to implement, and the only thing that remains is the scope for us to make an effort to open the border, which salam fayyad himself considered essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a permanent mechanism, unlike tim before, which was only temporary and which we have repeatedly renewed. and this mechanism was also very consciously created in partnership with the palestinian authority. we have worked very closely with salam fayyad to ensure that he gets what he wanted, namely a development plan and a plan for the progress of the economy, but also of course for the infrastructure. it should be a joint european effort, i.e. this mechanism - a financial mechanism - can be used by us and by other member states. it is even thought that some international organisations or non-european states may in principle benefit from this mechanism. it's like tim, a mechanism that provides full controls and monitoring, because of course we want to meet all the transparency criteria, and it's equipped to either provide direct budgetary aid or for the aid to go to, for example, unrwa and other organizations or flow into our projects. but i know that this question is currently being pushed back from the big political question: how do we solve this situation? i am aware of the problem, of course, but at the moment i can only give you this answer.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, i have been listening with great attention to what has been said. i could say the same and say it with the same emotion and with the same sentiment, because our sentiments are shared. but you are saying we have to act and not to talk. do you think that action will change our policy 180 degrees today? i do not really know if that is a sensible approach, to tell you the truth. what has happened in the last few days, apart from the humanitarian drama? we can talk for hours and really express our sentiments, because we have the same sentiments as you – at least i have – and i am sure the commissioner has the same. earlier in the week, only a few hours after the tension erupted, the arab league met. they took a decision, a decision that was supported by the general affairs and external relations council on monday, a decision that we are going to try to implement in the coming hours after a meeting taking place this morning between the palestinian authority and egypt – which is continuing as we are speaking now and which will continue during the night and probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow – when they have reached the point where we can really be of effect. but i think that a month after the paris conference, a month and a half since the annapolis conference, when all the arab countries are engaged, when other countries are playing for the first time a constructive role, i think we have to adapt in that direction. now it would not be serious on our part to play a role alone. we have to play a role along with all the partners that are there. we are supporting – and the council’s conclusions are very clear on that – the resolution of the arab league of sunday as far as the borders are concerned, and that was proved on monday. we are following the discussions on wednesday and thursday. i think this is action, but i do not know what i can do. it is a different story if you ask me to"foncer dans la direction correcte". cela veut dire que nous sommes aujourd'hui dans la direction incorrecte. (interruption de m. cohn-bendit:"... direction inconnue ...") monsieur le président, je crois que, si notre ami monsieur cohn-bendit,a distinguished member of the parliament, says that the strategy of the european union today is ‘inconnue’, je ne comprends rien. you can say whatever you want. you can say that the strategy of the european union today after annapolis, after having chaired the paris conference, after having supported the arab league is ‘inconnue’, you can say other things, but i do not think that ‘inconnue’ can be sustained. you may not like it – (objection)you may not be in agreement, but it is very difficult to say that it is not known. i share many of the sentiments you have expressed very eloquently. and i could say that you have, we have, responsibilities in the coming days and hours that we are going to tackle. are we able to resolve the situation? i do not know. you do not know. but you can be sure that we are going to try, and we are going to try to support mr fayyad, because he has been our interlocutor all this period of time. he is a man of goodwill, which is why we cannot let him down. i am not going to let him down. therefore we have to continue working in this direction. there will be frustrations. it will be frustrating. are we going to solve all the problems? i do not know. but we are going to try with all our energy and our best will. i share all the sentiments that have been expressed. i would not say more deeply but at least at the same depth as you, all our friends here, because we are on the same side, we have been engaged in this battle for a long time together. therefore there is no difference in sentiment, and we have to continue what we have been doing. i think we have to move in that direction. i promise you that i will go there. i will try to meet with the egyptians, the saudis and everybody – the americans, the russians, everybody – to see if we can come up with something that cannot be the same. it has to be something collectively different. otherwise i think we will not be able to produce any results. you may say that you have not seen results in several years. since 1967 we have not produced a result, collectively, as an international community. that is true. that is our responsibility. but i do not think we can resolve the problem tomorrow by taking a decision now which is different to the one we took in the council on monday. we now have a structure from the european council on monday and we must try to implement it. i would be happy to return and talk to you and express very frankly, as we doing here, the consequences of our acts. but please do not think that we do not have the same sentiments. we do. we have experience of the situation there and we cannot say more. concerning action, be sure that we are going to do as much as we can.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february partsession. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. thank you, mr president, too many times this house has discussed the israeli-palestinian question in long debates. however, we must objectively note that the role which the european union has so far been able to play in this matter is entirely marginal: the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will do so. i visited palestine recently and recorded a climate of discouragement, disappointment and resignation among the people, tired of years of broken promises: the situation is deteriorating and there is a serious risk of the palestinian territories being handed over to hamas extremists. the air you breathe is heavy and the use of force seems almost inevitable. time is really running out this time: the european union must be able to take a more positive stance on the situation in the middle east, and we must be able to take a more positive stance on the situation in the middle east.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the missile defence system in the united states.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the completion of the community postal services market (13593/6/2007 c6-0410/2007 2006/0196 ((cod)) (rapporteur: markus ferber) (a6-0505/2007).
the chairman of the council. - it is a great honour to be here today, at your plenary session. the commission's proposal for a directive on the completion of the internal market for community postal services was one of the most demanding legislative proposals for the co-legislator in the last 15 months. when the commission presented it in october 2006, everyone expected a continuing disagreement and a lively debate within our institutions about the future of one of the oldest and most classic public services in europe. the european council also welcomed the commission's new approach to the issue of the european union's role in the world economy. from the outset, our institutions have defined in their discussions the common objective of avoiding populism and demagoguery and focusing on the essential parameters related to this issue, including the social aspects for postal workers and the sustainability of the financing of the universal service. as we know, the postal sector is facing structural change and must adapt to new economic and social conditions. the final stage of the completion of the internal market for postal services provides a unique growth opportunity for all operators involved. after all, citizens expect us to maintain and further improve the quality and efficiency of postal services for the benefit of all users, wherever they live. the opening of the postal market has been a success story so far. new players have entered the market, and new business opportunities have been seized not only by these new players but also by existing ones. new services for consumers have developed. it is self-evident that full liberalisation of postal services is a necessary condition for the sector's recovery and its survival in new forms of competition and alternative offers. the approach of our two institutions reaffirmed the fundamental principles of protecting quality, reliable and affordable services for all users and the prohibition of discriminatory barriers for new market entrants. at the same time, both the european parliament and the council recognise fundamentally different conditions in certain markets for postal services in the european union. therefore, the council, in its common position, decided on a common end date for liberalisation until the end of 2010, while allowing certain member states an additional transitional period until the end of 2012 to bring the new rules into force. in line with the basic principle of all previous postal directives, the principle of subsidiarity allows them to adapt the common rules to specific national circumstances and ensures that the postal market is supervised by an independent postal regulatory authority. ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this short speech, i would like to congratulate mr markus ferber and the rapporteurs from all the political groups involved, the shadow rapporteurs, for their contributions to our fruitful and constructive discussions. although we sometimes disagreed with some of their specific comments, i would like to recall that the council incorporated a large number of relevant amendments in its november 2007 common position, demonstrating its political determination, openness and constructive flexibility. in particular, i would like to highlight the good work of the commission throughout the codecision procedure and its commitment to effectively assist and guide the member states on all issues relating to the implementation of the new directive. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you will take the final decision and reaffirm our common agreement in principle, as set out in the council's common position and the recommendation of the committee on transport and tourism of 19 december last year. we are confident that we have struck the right balance between the different objectives and have tackled the political challenges openly and sensitively, without compromising the legal security of postal service providers and consumers. ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for your good cooperation and for this text, which i hope will be adopted, and thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − madam president, tomorrow the european parliament should take a historic decision that marks the end of a process launched more than 15 years ago. the third postal directive brings to a good end the well prepared gradual process of full market opening. what today appears a clear and obvious solution was far from uncontested when the discussion started. on 18 october 2006 the commission presented its proposals. intense and constructive negotiations in the institutions followed. it was eventually the european parliament, through its report at first reading of 11 july 2007, that paved the way for the compromise result in front of you today. many in this house have actively contributed to this important result, and – on behalf of my colleague commissioner mccreevy – i wish to pay tribute particularly to the rapporteur, mr ferber, and his fellow shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups who have shaped the compromise. the same goes for the finnish, german, portuguese and – last but not least – the slovene presidency. some remarks on substance: the text that is now on the table is balanced. it takes into account the interests of different political groups and member states. the commission’s proposal had envisaged an earlier date for market opening, confirming the target date set by the existing postal directive. two additional years is a substantial period. it will give all operators time to complete their preparations. it should not, however, lead to complacency. what is important for the postal sector, its customers, its operators and its employees is that there is a final and unconditional date for full market opening. the common position provides for fair conditions and requires us to do away with market entry barriers. a limited number of amendments have been tabled for tomorrow’s vote. mostly these are amendments that were already rejected by the committee on transport and tourism in december. as my colleague, mr mccreevy, observed at the time, these amendments do not bring added value for the internal market, for postal users, or for postmen and women. there is a momentum to finalise the process of postal reform. to sum up, the text in front of you is, on balance, good in substance, and, if you look at its main provisions, you will agree with me that it is faithful to our objective: real market opening not as an end in itself but as the means through which we pursue the broader objective of a high quality, highly efficient and sustainable postal sector adapted to the needs of the 21st century.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, like the other members, would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr ferber, on his work. it is a work which began long ago and during which we have had important moments of convergence and some moments of dialectical discussion. as far as my personal position is concerned, as is that of my group, there has never been a battle of principle, nor an ideological battle, against the idea of liberalization, which we welcome and support, but which is obviously aimed at confirming the guarantees which are indispensable for the provision of universal service. in the present proposal for a directive, as voted by parliament at first reading and then revised by the council, we believe that this guarantee exists in principle, although certain conditions will have to be specified, specified and detailed. we do not want to be the fools who, when the forest is pointed out, stop to look at the tree, but on the other hand we do not want to ignore that sometimes the devil is in the details. that is why we would have preferred that certain questions concerning authorization, the possibility of genuine competition, including on the tariff side, between the operator in charge of the universal service and the other individual services, and the right and duty to access networks, should have been clarified. we would have preferred it, but the majority of the positions in parliament, and also in the committee, probably considered this clarification of greater guarantees superfluous, preferring instead not to run the risk of a complicated conciliation. all in all, we are in favour of this position at this stage and we are very clear on the amendments relating to the condition of blind or partially sighted people that if these amendments and only these amendments were to require conciliation, we would not agree. so, if other amendments were to be adopted, we would vote in favour of this one too. otherwise we would be voting against all the amendments tabled.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say at once that i very much agree with what was said a short while ago by minister podobnik and commissioner dimas, with whom we are meeting more and more frequently and with whom we will soon be able to talk even by gestures, without speaking and without interpreters, because i think we understand each other very well. i also agree with what they said about the fact that the increased responsibility of the european union during the bali conference requires us to do our part with even greater consistency than we have done so far. but today we are discussing bali and we must dwell on this, also because tomorrow we will adopt a resolution which i think is well-balanced. the most accurate assessment i have heard since bali is what i read from mr de boer, who as you know is the executive director of the framework convention, who spoke of the fall of the 'berlin climate wall'. i think it is very appropriate because in bali, as has been mentioned, the road map to copenhagen was first decided, with stages and frames that are sufficiently precise. it has - and i want to emphasize this - been touched upon concretely, and even before 2012, the theme of adaptation, even with increased funding. we have talked concretely about technology transfer, we have included the issue of deforestation, but above all - and this is the most important and promising thing for me - we have actually overcome the barrier - the berlin wall - between the industrialized countries and the developing countries in annex i, in a world that has changed, in which a good number of what were the developing countries are now experiencing rapid growth. in short, the matchmaking between the united states, india and china, to say nothing of it, has been exposed, and because of this a scenario has been opened in which a difficult negotiation, certainly difficult, but facing a very important prospect of success.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, politicians in naples have a habit of sending their waste all over europe. today the garbage has reached the quirinal, where the squalid bolshevik napolitano gave the order of the monk to prolong the agony of his fellow snackers, ignoring democracy and the will of the people to vote for a new parliament. but that's all you could expect from someone who approved the soviet invasion of hungary.
i have received a request from mr hannan for a point concerning the interpretation of rule 19 of our rules of procedure.
thank you, your honor. i have noted your comments, but as you know, a vote is already scheduled for 11 a.m. on this point of interpretation of the regulation, so we shall proceed in this direction.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the council on the 2007 annual debate on progress made with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice (articles 2 and 39 of the treaty on european union) by jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0005/2008 - b6-0006/2008), - the oral question to the commission on the 2007 annual debate on progress made with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice (articles 2 and 39 of the treaty on european union) by jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0006/2008 - b6-0007/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, i think i can share the approach adopted by commissioner frattini in this debate. we must look to the future, we must see how we can manage the time ahead with a sense of responsibility and a shared commitment by all the european institutions. we believe that after years of debate on the area of freedom, security and justice, in which this parliament has critically noted the democratic deficit - such a sensitive area for the fundamental rights of citizens - we can welcome the signing of the new treaty which finally creates a european dimension in this area and which gives parliament full legislative powers also in the fields of judicial, criminal and police cooperation and immigration and residence policies. so my group also believes that, even at this delicate stage of ratification, no institution can ignore this fact, a situation which has changed on the whole. we know that it is not possible to anticipate the entry into force of the treaty tout court, but we believe that it would be a political mistake to continue working on highly sensitive issues, regardless of the democratic scope of the treaty of lisbon. for this reason, our group also believes that a joint effort by parliament, the council and the commission is needed to identify some of the most important dossiers, not to block their progress, of course, but to ensure that parliament can be consulted when the treaty of lisbon enters into force and to integrate these dossiers into the new institutional framework. i am thinking in particular of the important dossiers on which we have only been consulted so far, such as the proposal for a european pnr system, the proposal for a revision of the framework decision on terrorism, the directive on the entry of highly qualified workers and the directive on a uniform procedure for the entry of migrants for employment purposes. i have a few seconds, mr president, to express a worried assessment of what the council said about the return directive. we appreciate the council's willingness and cooperation, but we feel that there are some extremely sensitive points. one point in particular: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commission and the council for their willingness to reach an interinstitutional political agreement as soon as possible in view of the new developments which we are about to witness in the coming months. from january 2009 this parliament will be able to play an important role in the area of freedom, justice and security, especially in the need for european citizens to be able to exercise democratic control over the choices made within the area of freedom, security and justice of this european union. we believe that 2008 is a year of transition and that it should be lived as such by identifying certain priorities in the area of freedom, justice and security. i think we must move forward on issues we can no longer go back on, on which there is a need to insist. i think that we need to establish a common asylum policy by 2010 and to speed up the process of identifying this common policy. i also think that we must soon have a general plan on legal immigration and not just encourage the entry of skilled or highly skilled immigrants, but also draw up a plan which covers all those entering the european union area. i believe that we also need to insist on the free movement of men and women within the schengen area, thus taking advantage of the results achieved in 2007 and trying to make the most of these aspects. i think we also have to try to live 2008 as a year of evaluation on some choices that have been made. i am thinking in particular of two important issues. i think that a real assessment of the usefulness and effectiveness of the frontex agency is needed. it seems to me that an objective assessment can safely lead us to say that it has not produced the effects that were hoped for by the vast majority of this parliament and of the european citizens. i also think that we should assess the enormous amount of databases that exist in our landscape. all too often, exchanges of information are not useful and sometimes lost. i will conclude, mr president. i think we will probably have to make a final assessment of the return directive as well. it seems to me that we have reached a point of no return and we probably need to change our strategy: we need to think about a plan of action and legal immigration and then figure out how to kick out, deport and detain immigrants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the deputy editor of the evening correspondent, magdi allam, not suspected of racism or islamophobia, raises a serious problem: the great mosque of rome sees its imams and everything that they depend on - funding and salaries - depend on the embassies of some islamic countries. is this the security in europe, in one of the great capitals, of the real risk of the spread of extremist islamic doctrines? i don't think he is. i think that the spread of islamic fundamentalist theories close to terrorism should be controlled and that the european union should deal with this very carefully. the terrorism: how should we assess the recent opinion of advocate general poiares maduro of the court of justice, which proposes that regulation (ec) no 881/2002 on the freezing of assets of blacklisted members of al-qaeda and the taliban is unlawful? i would remind you that this regulation is nothing more than the implementation of un resolution 1390, adopted by the entire international community in response to the attacks of 11 september. the civilized world wants to defend itself against the threat of terrorism: we must never let down our guard against the deadly threat of islamic terrorism!
mr president, i wanted to delete the words 'traditional practices' from the oral amendment, and therefore the last two words of paragraph 9. if you want to read the rest of the text: "calls on the roma to respect human rights, especially with regard to women and children, and to avoid forced marriages".
in writing. - i was a rapporteur for the committee on development on the report on the crossing of external borders and i therefore welcome the excellent work of mr cashman. in 2008, the dream of 1957 took a step further: the european family has formally expanded its borders. other borders have fallen and the schengen area has been considerably enlarged, with obvious positive consequences. it would be important, however, that more effort be put into the political and economic spheres in addition to the physical and geographical. the 27 member states still have a distinct and, in some cases, distant approach in many areas: in too many areas there is no underlying synergy and the resulting picture is completely disorganized. the european union must implement the following ways of summarising the policies and strategies of the member states: the commission is therefore in favour of free movement of people and goods, but it is more convinced of the need to create a uniform policy and regulatory framework.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we must support a policy based on diplomacy which allows the escalation of tensions and the threat of military action to be abandoned, favouring the path of dialogue through the recognition of iran's right to develop nuclear technology for civilian use. nevertheless, an effort is needed to reach a negotiated situation which will induce iran to renounce the option of military use, in a multilateral perspective of nuclear disarmament, in order to ensure a state of international calm and peace. on the other hand, i cannot help but express some concern about the current human rights situation in iran, where we are witnessing a growing repression of freedom of expression, the rights of minorities and women, and where the rule is a harsh and inhumane judicial and prison system which all too often uses capital punishment, torture and stoning. efforts made so far have produced no tangible results. the european union has also expressed its concern at the recent events in the middle east, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages.
in writing. - i welcome the progress made at the bali conference, which, thanks also to the role played by the eu during the negotiations, has led to unexpected results. it was crucial to give a signal of unity, cooperation and responsibility at this juncture, so that negotiations could be started in the best possible way to set new emission reduction targets for the post-kyoto period (2012). in accepting the conclusions of the ipcc scientists, all participants recognised at political level that climate change exists, that it is anthropogenic in origin and that action must be taken by 2020 to avoid irreversible damage to the planet's climate. i hope that copenhagen in 2009 will mark the turning point in the fight against climate change by setting stringent reduction targets by 2020 for all industrialised and developing countries. it is clear that this new challenge will involve costs and inefficiencies which are difficult to justify unless, as i have said in previous speeches, we make the necessary and courageous choices, such as going back to nuclear power. non-action, procrastination and exhausting conferences would only lead to irreversible environmental damage.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner kallas for his valuable cooperation with parliament during its work. i would also like to thank olaf, in the person of its director, mr franz-hermann brüner, for its constant support and for the fundamental and not easy work carried out, and finally all my colleagues for their valuable contribution, as well as the structures and institutions of all the countries which are cooperating with us in this difficult work and - if i may - in particular our italian financial guard, which is distinguished in this endeavour by its high level of professionalism. the problem of protecting the community's financial interests is a matter of primary importance, directly affecting us as states and as citizens, and must therefore be tackled with the firmness and determination it deserves. the resolution tabled here today seeks to give a concrete response to the alarming phenomenon of fraud in the community. the data collected ... (the president interrupts the speaker to call back some members who are disturbing the debate) thank you, mr president, we are talking about transparency and it also takes great civility. the resolution tabled here today seeks to give a concrete response to the alarming phenomenon of fraud in the community. the data collected are worrying: in the field of own resources, agricultural expenditure and structural operations, irregularities in 2006 amounted to a total of eur 1 143 million, compared with eur 1 024 million in the previous year. the statistics show us an ever-increasing number of irregularities. however, it is important to stress that a high number of irregularities does not necessarily correspond to a high level of fraud. it can also be an indication of the effectiveness of control mechanisms and of close cooperation between the member states and the commission. the commission rightly emphasised the importance of such cooperation in its 2006 annual report, both for prevention and recovery. to date, statistical data are based on heterogeneous national structures with very different administrative, legal and inspection systems. in particular, it is considered unacceptable that spain and germany do not transmit to the commission the information on irregularities detected in electronic format as required for all member states. the community rules and the obligations imposed by the fight against fraud must be transposed in the same way by the different countries. to this end, closer cooperation between the member states and the commission is essential for the protection of the community's financial interests, which must be regarded as common, that is to say, as being more important than the interests of individual member states. it is necessary to strengthen synergies between the supervisory authorities and local administrations in terms of coordination and exchange of information. maintaining the organisation and disbursement of finance at central level entails complex implementation mechanisms and increases the distance between those responsible for financing and the final beneficiaries. another key point raised in the report is the simplification of legislation. the 2000-2006 programming period has shown that overly complicated rules favour the commission of irregularities. finally, there is a slight improvement in activity and recovery, but recovery remains a problem which causes considerable damage to the community budget. in particular, the 39-month period between the reporting of the irregularities and the notification is considered unacceptable, as this delay makes recovery even more difficult, if not impossible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all the members for their words, and in particular mr bösch, whose previous work also formed the basis for my report. i would like to stress a few points. i am particularly pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the budget for the european union. he pointed out an important point: the more difficult it is, the more complicated it is, the more difficult it is to read these regulations, the more organized crime, especially, and all forms of illegality can creep into these dark spaces. so simplification - and i would also like to say more - bringing the people who give the money closer together with those who receive it is another mechanism for making this clear, transparent and easy to understand. the problem of recovery is a real problem. the time is too long, the ability to punish those who cheat the european community must be guaranteed by forms of surety, by forms of guarantees as can be applied through the banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that we have done a fundamental job with the cooperation of all and with the political will and commitment of all our colleagues. it is clear that cooperation, willingness and the desire to curb this phenomenon, which is extremely harmful to the european community, is a purely political matter. the absence of the council certainly does not make this easier, because its presence would also have been a chance to find out what the council thought. but parliament is absolutely united and solidary around these principles, and so we feel that we have achieved something positive which gives us hope for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 february 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by bill newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters (com (2006) 0866 c6-0033/2007 2006/0290 cod) (a6-0488/2007).
thank you, mr heaton-harris. i'm going to have to ask you to leave. now that london is clear, europe is also more peaceful.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 february 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the common position defined by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the community customs code (customs code as updated) (11272/6/2007 c6-0354/2007 2005/0246 ((cod)) (rapporteur: janelly fourtou) (a6-0011/2008).
thank you, mr newton dunn. how sad would european parliament evenings be without some interesting british debates.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 february 2008.
the agenda includes the report by mr gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the factors which encourage terrorism and facilitate the recruitment of terrorists (2006/2092 (ini)) (a6-0015/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues and i would like to say frankly at the outset that we were forced to work on a report which had started badly, was confused in its premises and fragile in its proposals. i think the civil liberties committee has done a very good job in giving this report a useful and practical political profile. of course, we start from a common premise. in recent years, the rise and violent radicalisation of individuals and groups has been one of the greatest weaknesses in our rule of law and one of the greatest assaults on our democratic institutions. we must fight against this phenomenon. in this sense, the european union's action is an added value, because it represents a contribution to harmonization, because if we pool instruments we will have a set of instruments, each of which will have its own inherent weakness. but it is a new challenge which requires a great effort to maintain balance without succumbing to the temptation, which is also humanly inevitable, in the face of the aggressions suffered in these years after 9/11, to generalize or to build a fortress europe or to put to the side a priority which is at the heart of the process of european union integration and which is the safeguarding of fundamental rights. that is why we believe that we must move along the three lines which this report takes up. in the meantime, we must reaffirm fundamental rights and the rule of law, in particular, as vice-president frattini said, freedom of religion and freedom of expression, without whose guarantee the very idea of europe and an integration process based primarily on the fundamental rights of european citizens will fail. we need to strengthen judicial cooperation to target the radical, violent, organized fringes. we need full harmonisation of the offences of terrorism at european union level, including apologising in the proposal from the committee on civil liberties. and we need, of course, careful prevention work: we must attack the causes and factors - there are many, it is useless to pretend that this is not the case - which lead to radicalisation within our societies of different layers of the population. this is achieved by extending the rights of citizenship, active citizenship, that is, citizenship which is responsible, participation in political life, dialogue also with religious movements. as the vice-president pointed out, we must also fight in the interests and for the protection of millions, tens of millions of european citizens who profess a religion different from ours, or of non-european citizens of the islamic religion who have always professed an attention to the rules of our democracy, a respect for our laws that deserves the utmost consideration on our part. and finally, we need to build a dialogue that can truly represent an alliance of civilizations and not a clash of civilizations. the european union is not a political alliance, but a political alliance, and it is not a political alliance, but a political alliance. it is an expression of great responsibility and commitment to this parliament and to our communities. i think it is essential that we keep it in our resolution tomorrow.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know how sensitive this subject is and how closely it is followed in our respective countries. the uen group is very pleased with the proposal put forward by mr guardans cambó and the work done to complete it in the committee on international trade. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his analysis and the european angle, and therefore on his emphasis on the difficulties often generated by unjustified obstacles faced by european industry on international markets. improving this competitiveness is an important contribution to the success of the lisbon strategy. if we can offer european industry better space on international markets, we will enable businesses to grow, to invest in know-how and technology and to create more jobs. this is what many economic sectors in our countries are asking us to do. access to foreign markets for european industry is hampered by various obstacles. barriers are a combination of measures of various kinds, ranging from cumbersome regulations to discourage investment or entry to unfair trading practices, a lack of attention to intellectual property rights and widespread counterfeiting to the detriment of european products and, more generally, serious and systematic violations of wto and other rules governing international trade. the commission's communication is a step in the right direction and parliament wants to support the initiatives indicated, which are aimed at improving access to foreign markets. these include the establishment of a strengthened strategic partnership between the commission, which would retain its role as coordinator, the member states and european union businesses, in order to support traders and especially small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to have contacts or export to third countries. the presence of the commission in delegations in certain key countries needs to be strengthened. these steps must be part of a wider strategy, pursued jointly with the main trading partners, such as the united states, japan and canada, which share our concerns at international level and can promote a multilateral agreement on the matter with the union, promoting wto mechanisms that allow for rapid responses in the event of new non-tariff barriers. the multilateral action, which is the most effective for the number of countries involved and also the most difficult, therefore needs to be accompanied by agreements in which we must highlight and resolve the inconsistencies linked to the presence of unjustified obstacles in third countries.
in writing. in this plenary session we discussed the so-called 'goods package', which provides for uniform rules for the marketing of products within the european union and reaffirms the principles of reciprocity. the european parliament is currently working to increase the efficiency of the ce mark (european conformity) because it provides guarantees on product safety and allows goods from non-eu countries to be identified. however, in recent years another mark has appeared that is almost identical to it in graphic terms, except for the spacing between the two letters, which, however, means something quite different: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the citizens are calling for measures and sanctions, as well as for increased customs controls, to prevent the european ce mark from being misused. the italian regions are suffering from widespread marketing of imported counterfeit products which, at first sight, appear to meet the requirements for their placing on the market. this is also due to the confusion caused by the similarity between the two marks. the regulation will allow goods to move more freely within the eu, increasing consumer choice and confidence and simplifying the sale of goods.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the dunn report. the aim of the proposal is to bring the current regulation (ec) no 515/97 into line with the community's new powers in the field of customs cooperation by strengthening cooperation and exchanges of data between member states and between member states and the commission. it is the legal basis for requests for assistance exchanged between the competent authorities to combat irregularities and fraud. despite the good results achieved so far, there are various reasons for amending the text, mainly because of the change in the context and the institutional balance. the aim is therefore to ensure more effective coordination at community level in the light of the new instruments provided for by european law, taking into account that at the time of the adoption of regulation (ec) no 515/97 there was still no article on customs cooperation in the treaty (articles 135 and 280).
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr pomés ruiz, which represents a further step towards accountability and transparency on the part of the european institutions, and which is designed to enable all citizens to examine and verify more closely the decisionmaking process in the use of eu funds, thus reinforcing the basic principles of our democratic system. the parliamentary initiative expressly requires the publication of the beneficiaries of eu funds, whether they are grants, procurement, agricultural or structural expenditure or other types of funding. the commission is also asked to assess the feasibility of an 'information system' for the general public, which would provide all the data on the amounts and individual beneficiaries of the complex eu funding activity. the ruiz report would also provide for ethical standards for public office holders, a blacklist of fraudsters, the disclosure of lobbyists and all experts assisting the commission, and the creation of an efficient and transparent system for monitoring the management and effectiveness of the use of eu funds.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr musotto. the two reports stress the need for greater attention to be paid to certain countries which are lagging behind in the transmission of information in electronic format, or in other words in the adaptation of management and control systems. i welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on the importance of paying particular attention to the development of community anti-fraud activities in countries which show insufficient efficiency of control systems and, in some cases, a low level of compliance with european standards. i think it is essential that the community's expenditure is kept under close control. the fight against misappropriation is even more important, as european taxpayers' money must be used to further raise living standards.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, the delicate ratification process has finally begun, and we hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. the increased involvement of the european parliament in the decision-making process is a great recognition of the european citizens. europe is called upon to undertake an ambitious mission: to become more active in international politics. not just affirmative human rights, but concrete action to defend them. the union must deal with international emergencies which are now left to the individual member states, the united states and, with all the limitations of its action, the united nations. we must imagine future scenarios and not, as in the case of kosovo, be unprepared and divided in the face of a most delicate scenario. energy is an urgent issue on which the union is working and we must abandon the false environmentalist approach and look for common solutions to solve the major problems of the energy crisis and development. we believe that the member states or companies linked to them must remain the owners of the distribution networks, because everything can be privatised but not the security of citizens and states. any other choice would deprive europe of its independence and self-sufficiency. objective studies are needed to resolve the dilemma of nuclear and alternative sources. it's time for choices, not words. the internet and the inability to find a regulation from the beginning have led the network to positively increase the degree of freedom in our society, but have exposed everyone to the uncontrolled risk of terrorism, which also through encryption increasingly threatens democracy and freedom for everyone. the europe of services, the economy and the free market - a market which must be guided by clear and shared rules - cannot forget to defend a fundamental value such as the integrity of children. the increase in online pedophilia and the recent data showing that 52% of pedophilic websites are in europe require us to harmonize the laws of the member states to give the whole union the certainty of swift processes, adequate prevention, laws that make providers responsible, which provide for the closure of illegal sites in all the countries of the union. we need a single european centre to help families, teachers, the police and the judiciary to exchange the information needed to eradicate this heinous crime and to punish those responsible. president, mr prime minister, to fail to deal with this emergency now would be to deny europe a future, because without the integrity of children there is no future for our europe.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to meet the prime minister, also because he is surrounded by a lot of girls: some of them, like cecilia, we've known for a long time, and some, like margot, we've had here for a long time as well. so i think the role of women in your government and in your country is something that i really want to highlight, also because it's not just a matter of gender, but also of quality, and so also to recognize that we are glad to have you here today. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the environmental, the economic, the social. it is to be able to reverse the trend of global warming, to take advantage of this challenge to reorient towards the sustainability of the economy, of work, of competitiveness, which we must absolutely ensure. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it is not because we are monotheistic or because we are greens that we think this, but because we see reality as it is without illusions and without ideologizing glasses. we believe that the economic system, democratic stability, the ability to achieve the millennium development goals and to manage migration are all linked to the management of scarce resources and climate change. and of course europe is at the forefront of this. that is why, mr president, your remark about the need to have a debate once again on what should be done and paid for at european level and what should be done and paid for at national level seems to us to be quite trivial and we hope that it can be avoided. today the european union has a budget of 1%, which means that none of the things you have said, or at least a good half of them, can be achieved unless the european union has a decent budget. so i hope that in the mid-term review, for which your presidency will, i believe, have some importance, since it is between this year and next year that we should decide the future of the financial perspective as well, i hope that your country will want to play a less blocking role than it has been able to play in the past. finally, mr president, on the important energy package we expect the virtuous sweden to play a positive role and to avoid trying to reduce its commitments and thus to set a bad example for the other member states as well. and finally on the question of free trade, on the question of free trade. we are not protectionists, but it would be blind and a little ideological to think that free trade will solve everything, when we know that without environmental and social rules this is absolutely not possible. on the question of turkey, we are in complete agreement with you. we consider it wonderful news that papadopoulos has been excluded from cyprus. and, mr president, why do you not reopen the question of the seat of the european parliament?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to highlight some key points of the position of the european parliament, and in particular of the socialist group, on the integrated guidelines for the closure of the lisbon cycle for growth and employment. one of these is the need to link the process of budgetary consolidation, which is characteristic of the convergence programmes within the stability pact, with the quality of public expenditure. public spending in the member states needs to be re-trained and coordinated towards the priorities of the strategy in order to ensure macroeconomic stability, sustainable growth and the achievement of full employment. the restructuring of public expenditure, directed in a coordinated manner among the member states towards common investment objectives, including through public-private partnership initiatives, must be linked to research and development, education and training, infrastructure, transport and energy. this can be the driving force behind a growth and competitiveness strategy that will make the european economy strong and resilient, even in the face of financial turbulence and the consequences of the financialisation of the economy. public spending on these priorities can increase competitiveness and productivity. particular attention should be paid to the link between budgetary policies and productivity growth and wage policy. in this sense, the socialist group considers it necessary to establish a strong link between productivity growth and a fair redistribution of the benefits deriving from it with the aim of ensuring social cohesion. a key element of social cohesion is the introduction of a national minimum wage. i am convinced that the european parliament will, by its vote tomorrow, send a strong and decisive signal to the member states to commit themselves to concrete and timely implementation.
member of the commission. − madam president, this was a very interesting debate. i always regret that it is held late at night and maybe so few members stay, but thank you for staying. i think that many of you have mentioned what i personally also feel: there is a strategy that is absolutely necessary and this strategy aims to achieve stabilisation and security in this area. indeed, we, the european union, are very much in favour of going forward. i was chairperson-in-office of the osce in 2000 and i got to know these countries and, as others have said, they are very interesting countries. they are all very different. it is true that kazakhstan is the star of these countries, but a lot still has to be done. there is the issue of human rights that everybody has mentioned. there is the issue of poverty eradication and, particularly, education, but also the questions in the general field of human rights and, of course, the big question of energy. so i know how much we have to do and i am glad that finally the european union has done much more than in the past, together, as i said, with the german presidency. i shall now say a few words on those different issues. poverty eradication is highly important and this is one of the major parts that we focus on in the country strategies. the policy paper that we have produced for the eu strategy for central asia is more a political document on political priorities, but in the country strategies we mention all the requirements under the development cooperation instrument, which is particularly focused on education, on health, on rural development, on social protection and, particularly, on vulnerable families and children in difficulty. there is also, in terms of public health and communicable diseases, a major factor: the global fund on aids, malaria and tuberculosis, where, again, the central asian countries are eligible. so this is one side, and we will certainly go on with that. on the other hand, there is the question of energy – both the nabucco pipeline and the odessa-brody-gdańsk pipeline have been mentioned – and, in general, energy security. i completely agree with you that we want a diversification of our energy policy, even if we have not yet completely reached where we want to go. but the most important thing is that we have taken this clear decision. on the odessa-brody-gdańsk pipeline, i would like to say that the commission is making every effort to diversify eu energy supplies and routes and, of course, central asia is absolutely crucial here. the pipeline you mentioned is an important project in these efforts, and to feed this pipeline, we need to work first and foremost on the trans-caspian pipeline, to get the central asian resources to the black sea. just a few days ago, we had the first ever regional conference of the black sea synergy, which was a very first step in working on these issues in a regional dimension. apart from that, we also face the issue of energy security regarding the nabucco pipeline. it is still a priority for the commission and we will go on supporting it. it is not dead, as some of you might think. so we have energy political priorities. by the way, we are starting to have a sort of memorandum of understanding on energy with turkmenistan too. we already have one with kazakhstan, and we will certainly try to go on building bridges between the different countries of the caucasus and central asia. somebody asked me about mongolia. the five countries of the central asia region share the same recent past, following the break-up of the soviet union, and they are all, of course, very young nations. this means that we face similar challenges regarding the political and economic transformation of these societies, but, as you know, mongolian history is quite different, and that is why we did not include mongolia in the strategy. however, we do not preclude looking to the south of the central asian countries and we are looking towards the possibility of working further with mongolia. today, it is a rather democratised country, where we see a lot of positive measures and positive steps. kazakhstan will indeed hold the chairmanship of the osce in 2010. i would like to tell you that i have always promoted that, always on condition that kazakhstan continues to take a lot of important steps that are still necessary. more has to be done on the freedom of the media, on electoral law and on the issue of registration of political parties, but it is indeed going in the right direction. finally, kazakhstan is a member of the european neighbourhood policy. let us please keep the central asia strategy and the enp somewhat separate, although elements of the neighbourhood policy can appear later on in a special agreement, particularly with kazakhstan, because we know kazakhstan can be the first country in the central asia region to start radiating a positive spirit. i hope that the others will follow.
in writing. as part of my work with the delegation for relations with central asia, of which i am a member, i had the opportunity to visit the countries of the region covered by the report. i was able to see the considerable progress these countries have made in many areas, from the environment to social issues, largely thanks to the strong impetus of the eu. nevertheless, it is hoped that the eu will continue its work in this part of the world, also in view of the role of these nations as crucial allies in the fight against international terrorism and drug trafficking, by increasingly strengthening the dialogue between the eu and the countries concerned. it also called on the council and the commission to step up their efforts to improve the protection of citizens in key areas of social life, including the strengthening of existing laws on women's rights and their better enforcement, the continuing vigorous fight against the exploitation of children, the implementation of major education reforms and, in view of the sharp increase in infectious diseases in the region, a health service reform, which was considered a key priority for the countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon puts an end to a prolonged and dangerous stalemate. we are therefore emerging from the crisis with a stable institutional structure, which is more effective and open to further developments. we are living in a new phase in which the road to a constitution for europe can also be reopened - i hope so. but to do so requires an extraordinary effort to promote european citizenship on the basis of the charter of rights. beyond the demographic calculation, which is a matter for national and intergovernmental logic, european citizenship is the very cornerstone around which the future political edifice of europe will be built. this is also the only way to restore a soul to this treaty, the soul of which mr severin spoke a little while ago. the future is therefore primarily in the hands of a great alliance between parliament and the european citizens in their fullness of rights and duties. and the first proof of this alliance is perhaps the choice of the new figure of the president of the union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly opposed to this report. i have always expressed my disapproval of the way in which the treaty of lisbon was drafted and ratified. i believe that a treaty cannot simply be ratified by national parliaments, but requires a referendum. i would like to make a few comments on the text. in particular, i strongly deplore the reference, albeit implicit, to italy in the third indent of paragraph 6. the text reads: 'it regrets that the additional parliamentary seat allocated to a member state is a derogation from the principle of degressive proportionality'. in the real world, it's all completely false. the allocation, albeit in the form of an additional seat, has in fact partially restored the discrimination orchestrated to the detriment of italy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the starkevičiūtė report. the present formulation of the guidelines provides a sufficiently broad and still valid framework to accommodate recent economic and political developments. it therefore agrees with the proposal to keep the text of the broad economic policy guidelines unchanged for the next three-year cycle, in line with the council conclusions. stability is an important element for the effectiveness of the lisbon strategy and the integrated guidelines. this new cycle should therefore be based on the implementation of the reform and the achievement of concrete results. the committee also endorses the proposals for amendments to the explanatory text accompanying the broad economic policy guidelines, as they make it possible to focus the content of the guidelines more closely on the challenges facing europe (globalisation, strengthening the foundations for economic growth in the medium and long term, rapid demographic and social changes).
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the document presented by the european commission for a new partnership with the countries of central asia, but i would like to stress the following points. firstly, the growing importance of the central asian region in international trade, which is now an important alternative reservoir for energy resources. secondly, the fact that europe must therefore look very carefully at this part of the world, and encourage its integration into world trade and the international economic system, by supporting the applications of those countries in the area which are still outside the wto. the strengthening of trade relations with the whole area must therefore be seen as part of a strategy to bring about greater cooperation and integration between the countries themselves and to increase european influence, including political influence, in an area where progress towards democracy has been made. thirdly, the overall approach to central asia must take account of the wide political and economic differences between the countries of the region. particular emphasis was placed on the role played by a country with an advanced economy such as kazakhstan and, therefore, on the potential benefits of strengthening ties with that country also with a view to the overall development of the whole region.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the application of community law is an essential part of the 'better lawmaking' agenda launched by the barroso commission. for a while it remained a sort of cinderella, lost between the fashion of impact assessment and that of cost reduction. today the commission has stepped up its efforts, thanks in part to pressure from parliament. this is a procedure which has been going on for years, and which in many cases is a kind of bureaucratic transaction, where one infringement is followed by another with little effect, but which remains an absolutely indispensable procedure. the numbers speak very clearly. to date, there are some 2,518 infringement procedures open in a wide range of areas, in particular in the field of the environment and the internal market. in addition, the european parliament receives hundreds, if not thousands, of petitions each year, often referring to specific cases of breaches of community law, in which the citizen feels powerless and therefore turns to parliament. the question is: what chance of being satisfied? the infringement procedure is described in the treaty in articles 226 and 228 and there is therefore little to be creative about. the rules in force condemn us to slow and cumbersome procedures where the most effective measure - the financial penalty - is rarely applied and only after a very long time, even decades. but much, much can be done and i thank the commission for having proposed over the last two years, and then last september with a specific communication, a series of measures which are analysed and evaluated in my report and on which i would like to make a few comments later. but first, let me make a point which i consider crucial in this debate, because enforcement can be a very political issue and can be a formidable tool for increasing the credibility and visibility of the community institutions. i would like to mention two concrete examples of the commission's somewhat different approach: the waste crisis in naples and the via baltica motorway in the rospuda valley in poland. the waste crisis in naples is the direct result of the repeated violations of virtually all community waste rules over the years. and in fact, italy has been the subject of numerous infringements over the years and the court has condemned italy on many occasions. but only now, after years and when the situation has become intolerable for everyone and impossible to hide, has the commission decided to punch the tables. the commission's visits are followed very closely and citizens who are complaining about illegal dumping announce on tv that they are sending petitions to the european parliament. but i wonder: couldn't you have done it sooner? could we really have taken a different approach to prevent this from happening? you could have! and that is what commissioner dimas did in the case of the rospuda valley in poland, which was in danger of being disfigured by a planned infrastructure of the baltic way, where for the first time the commissioner asked for a suspensive intervention of the court which was granted. this is a very important precedent that tells us something extremely clear: the commission can and must be tough and strict with the member states who pretend to do nothing and must use all the means that the democratic system allows it: the media and public opinion. one of the most important innovations the commission makes in the communication concerns a so-called new working method. we have expressed many concerns about this new method of working, which is essentially based on referring the matter back to the member state to which the complaint is lodged in order to try to resolve the problem. we have expressed these concerns, the commission has given us some assurances, which i hope we will be able to hear again today, but we will keep a very close eye on this issue and we really hope that on the question of infringement procedures, the issue of transparency, the possibility of using the name and shame for the member states and the joint work with this institution can lead to progress. mr president, at the end of the debate i will take two more minutes to finish my speaking time.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues, the commissioner and the presidency for participating in this debate, which, as commissioner verheugen said, does not end here. quickly some points. i would like to comment on the question of priorities, which commissioner verheugen has raised. i think that this can indeed be a risky exercise, but it has not really been done until now. i've always been quite skeptical about the possibility of actually setting priorities. however, if you really think you're going to go down this road, take the risk of being transparent and maybe discussing these priorities. because otherwise the suspect might get the impression that you're choosing priorities because you want to get out of the way of the uncomfortable infractions. i don't think that would be good. the second consideration is that although the commission as such denies that it needs more resources, in particular more human resources, to deal with infringements, the reality is that in almost all the meetings i have had with your fellow commissioners, everyone has told me that they do not have enough resources, enough people, to deal with this issue in practice. the debate raised the question of the number of infringements in the new countries and it is likely that what the commissioner and the presidency said is true. but we must also know that, for example, in environmental matters there are only two or perhaps three officials dealing with all ten new member states and so obviously there is definitely a problem of human resources. finally, the question of the role of parliament. we are discussing internally various ways of making our role as co-legislators more effective by following up the implementation of the directives we approve. but i think there are two things that we absolutely have to do: the first is to strengthen decisively, by means of a political decision, the role of the committee on petitions, which, as mrs wallis said, is our window on the world. secondly, we must systematically organise implementation sessions, which, however, require open cooperation from the commission. because if we have sessions where we discuss the application of directives and then the commission official who comes in is silent or tells us things that are not interesting or because he cannot tell us the things we really want to hear then the whole exercise becomes superfluous. anyway, thank you, and we'll definitely be back to you on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president pöttering is making a statement of historical importance when he says that the declaration of independence expresses the will of the people of kosovo to take their destiny into their own hands. the independence of kosovo is a concrete application in europe of the principle of self-determination of peoples enshrined in the un charter. the creation of the first islamic state in europe, already hailed by the entire jihadist press, for example by the enthusiastic editorial of the islamic satellite tv channel al-arabia, and the fate of the serbian orthodox christian minority, to which the holy see's wise words call us, certainly arouse great concern in many of us. however, i would stress that this is undeniably an important legal and political precedent. there 's no denying it . it is important for the peoples of europe, from corsica to flanders, from sardinia to euskadia, from brittany to occitania, to our padania, which is unfortunately still a stateless nation, who aspire to the dream of self-determination and freedom. long live the europe of the peoples! long live the free padua!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as always when action is taken outside the international rules, europe is divided and defeated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the tension is growing in an air that is far from peaceful and full of geopolitical contrasts. europe has lacked unity, authority and transparency. we have even heard of meetings between the government which is currently holding the presidency of the council of europe and the us administration, which has suggested the lines to be followed. it is no coincidence that this parliament is politically impotent today, despite the celebrations of the new treaty. the only way to turn the page is to start from international law and from an autonomous vision that builds the presence of all the balkans in europe, recognizing the right of the whole area. let's hope it's not too late.
i am very pleased to take the floor on this occasion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to congratulate the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs, mr jan andersson, on presenting this document of initiative of the committee, so beautifully and passionately written by mrs castex in a series of consultations, with the participation of all the members of the committee - some in a particular way - and which allows me to say, after nine years as a member of the european parliament: i finally see a report in parliament which talks about pensioners and the elderly! and how much is said! i shall say in my explanation of vote tomorrow morning how many times the word pensioner and elderly is used in this report. we are talking about births, children, vocational training, but i want to emphasize this point, mr president: why are we finally talking about old people? i'm convinced that this is due to the great concern that all governments have, because having so many older people compared to so few workers means a pension payment, a health care payment that is much higher than it has been in the past. but look at it this way: 20 years ago, 10 years ago, 30 years ago, 50 years ago, no one dared to think that the elderly should be looked after, that the elderly should be helped, that those with elderly parents should be given more time off from work than has ever been done before. and then there's a discussion about pension systems, and there's a discussion about more children, more mothers being helped. now, did this cataclysm really need to happen, which has been compared to climate change by someone before me? i think that the report is a good one, because i agree with all the points made in it. finally, europe, in the person of the european parliament, gives an indication of what a state really ought to be. the states must follow this lead!
the rapporteur. mr president, i wonder if it would not be appropriate in this case, since these are amendments which we have agreed between various groups, to vote on these amendments as a whole, unless there is opposition from parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to take the floor to express my support for the final report by the whole group of the european people's party and the european democrats, as well as my own staff, for this report which takes account of the fact that there are many more elderly people than young people, both because medical care and lifestyles allow us all to live longer on average - not everyone, unfortunately, but on average - and so there are many older people, both because births have decreased, and so we are asking in this document to support this. i should also like to say, with regard to paragraph 24, that we as the european people's party, together with the uen and other groups, have asked for it to be deleted. we therefore voted in favour of the cancellation, which unfortunately was not accepted by the majority of parliament. i believe that my time is up.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european market seems totally incapable of defending itself against extra-european dumping, it is with great satisfaction that i take note of the first real 'institutional' step towards new legislation and harmonization of the eu market. in strasbourg, the european parliament proposed new rules for products placed on the community market. the latter will have to comply with all the legislation in force and, after careful evaluation, will be able to display the ce marking. in addition to the introduction of joint liability of foreign importers/producers for damage caused by non-compliant products, the report proposes the development of a complex system of supervision providing for certain penalties commensurate with the seriousness of the infringement, thus providing a strong deterrent to fraud. consumers and businesses can therefore look to the future with renewed optimism. the removal of barriers, which have always been at the heart of the eu's free trade policy, and the creation of a business-friendly economic climate will reflect a high level of protection for both consumers, through the respect of high standards of health and safety of products, and for businesses, which will finally benefit from a rigorous regulatory and control system for the protection of genuine 'made in'. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion has in the past been one of the pillars of community policies, an expression of the principle of solidarity which has characterised and accompanied economic growth in the european union. for many european countries and regions it has been a story of economic success; in some cases, it has even been described as a miracle, and thanks to the good implementation of cohesion policies, many of our citizens have improved their standard of living. in the eu-27 with its wide economic and social differences, the role of cohesion is even more important. the first effects of community economic aid are also beginning to be felt in some of the less developed regions, although, because of a very low starting gdp per head, economic convergence can be assessed in a long-term framework. in the near future, but perhaps already today, the scenarios will be different and cohesion policy will therefore have to face new and different challenges with a strong territorial impact, such as demographic change, urban concentration and the new dimension, migratory waves, energy supply and climate change. in voting in favour of the report, i call on the commission and the national governments to identify and develop a common approach to tackle these problems with the necessary dynamism and cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr pannella, with a hunger and thirst strike under way, has opened the first major 'world satyagraha for peace'. satyagraha is collective nonviolent action. this is a matter which i shall inform my colleagues in writing about, and which concerns the respect of the word given in democracy and which is emblematic not only for the italian situation. let me also remind you that today is the 49th anniversary of the tibetan people's uprising against chinese repression and i would like to greet the dalai lama and the tens of thousands of people marching in dharamsala, including the leaders of the radical party, sergio d'elia, matteo mecacci and marco perduca. we are now informed that the indian police are intervening to stop this march and so our greetings go out to them doubly.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, today we are celebrating the end of a process which began in september 2005. we have had to travel a long and sometimes difficult road, but in the end i feel that it was worth it. the safety of civil aviation is at stake. the regulation that we had in place, which we have in place to this day, was adopted in the emotional climate of the attack on the twin towers on september 11, 2001. it had its own trouble in its formation, but then approved to be applied, and in these years it showed successes, but also gaps and practical inadequacies. that's why we're here today to change it. the aim is to allow a more flexible response to technological, psychological and behavioural changes in the fight against terrorism, taking into account, of course, the experience we have had so far. security and its protection against terrorist attacks are obvious priorities, but they cannot be discussed in isolation. they need to be seen in a slightly more balanced context. the controls must be strict and efficient, but must not cause excessive inconvenience to passengers and must not entail unnecessary costs for their application. the costs must be shared wherever possible and not be borne solely by the passengers. that is why new controls cannot be introduced without proper democratic scrutiny. in short, these are the two points - costs and democratic accountability - on which parliament's delegation has focused its attention in the conciliation phase of this procedure. on costs i think i can be pleased to report to parliament that an article, not a recital, has been included to establish that they the costs of security must be shared between travellers, airports, airlines and national governments. a further article, not an interinstitutional declaration as it was in 2002, but an article obliges the commission to examine the problem in greater detail and to produce to this parliament and to the council proposals that solve it by a correct allocation of the same between taxpayers and passengers. on democratic accountability we have worked successfully to get the use of enhanced comitology or comitology with scrutiny, especially in the case of the introduction of any new checks, new controls, new possible limitations on the lives of passengers. in future, whenever parliament considers that the security measure is disproportionate to its purpose, it will have the opportunity to call for a public debate, to arrive at these considerations in an appropriate manner. in short, it seems to me that the balance between efficiency in the fight against terrorism and at the same time the widest possible respect for privacy, for behaviour, for unnecessary harassment of passengers, has been achieved in this way. of course, only the actual proof of its application will tell us whether this has been fully achieved. that is why, mr president, i feel i should recommend to this house, to our assembly, that we approve the agreement reached in conciliation and allow the commission to start its work effectively.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to your speeches. the challenge for our aviation security policy is to strike a reasonable balance - as you all have pointed out - between the requirements of protecting travellers against terrorist activities and, of course, the operational aspects within airports to avoid overly burdensome control mechanisms. the commission's proposal was to significantly improve the chances of reaching a reasonable balance. i repeat: the adoption of this regulation will enable us to establish more modern and flexible rules using new control technologies, to introduce the concept of one-stop security for flights from third countries with a good safety standard, to remove certain requirements that are duplicative, to codify the participation of the parties concerned in the decision-making process on implementing measures and, of course, to strengthen the participation of the european parliament in the decision-making process on implementing rules. i am personally committed to launching initiatives in all areas of security financing to improve the current situation, to establish greater transparency and to make the financial commitment of the member states more visible. so, as i said, i am responding to some of your comments, but i do not claim to be responding to all of them. the general rule that the commission will follow in future is that it will publish all applications of the regulation unless it is proved that knowledge of the regulation can help terrorists. this is very different from what we do today, where the default rule is to not publish anything. this is very important, because parliament will be able to be fully informed. i will therefore answer a few points: in reply to mr ó neachtain, duty free remains an important problem for me. we have established a rulebook for exemptions. we have succeeded in negotiating this regulation with singapore for all relations with singapore, and today we are continuing with a number of third countries to prepare further derogations. but obviously these third countries must cooperate with us much more actively and we are showing them our interest in this. the americans and canadians are working with us, but it is absolutely necessary - believe me, this is a subject that bothers me personally - to reach many more agreements with third countries to move forward on this duty free problem. mr kohliček and mrs ayala spoke about the pilots and the crews. we're working with the pilots, the consultation is underway. i cannot prejudge the conclusions of this consultation. the fact is that we are very attentive to the problems that need to be solved. so it is true, all that was very well said, we need a very coherent approach at european level. i am very attentive to the way in which the regulations are applied - that is clear - and it is true that, as mr kirkhope has just said, we must of course also harmonize the practices and rules in the field of application. it is also necessary to prevent a number of member states from taking initiatives like this in what i would call an almost improvised and unilateral way. it is not easy, the battle for the financing of security measures and for more transparent, more balanced financing will be difficult, and we know this - president costa has experienced this. i would also like to say to mrs. kratsa how much i appreciate her. mrs kratsa, you have chaired the parliament's delegation and you have helped us a great deal during long and very difficult sessions. finally, i would like to say a word to president costa, because we have had the feeling, with his report and his work as rapporteur, that parliament is really looking out for the common european good, the good of passengers, but also, of course, for a system of protection which is effective and at the same time flexible enough to take account of changes. and as i said earlier, we are very closely following new technologies that will hopefully allow us to simplify these procedures. the detection of explosive ingredients in liquids seems to be on track today. i hope that we can use these technologies in this area. of course, they will be welcome. in any case, i thank you, mr president, and i thank parliament in particular for the quality of this debate and for all the contributions it has been able to make during this debate.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation is a framework regulation and the test of whether the pudding is good is whether we apply it or eat it. today we just compared recipes. i think we both know that there are two big problems that remain. the first is that security has been heightened by the problem of terrorism and the problem of terrorism cannot be considered a private matter. the idea that every traveller should be concerned about funding anti-terrorism activities is obviously not a realistic one. of course the traveller is partly responsible and this line will have to emerge in some way, sooner or later, and make the states more responsible for this activity. the second is that, unfortunately, terrorism forces us to change our lifestyles. we must not, as it were, fail to introduce rules which limit the activities of each of us, even to prevent the terrorists from winning, but we must at the same time make every effort to prevent us, little by little, from actually winning the terrorism because terrorism forces us to change our lives. it's a difficult balance. we 've deployed every weapon we can think of: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are all the tools to do it. we have a lot of work to do in this direction, but i think we have made a good start.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by gabriele albertini, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on european sustainable transport policy taking into account european energy and environment policies (2007/2147 (ini)) (a6-0014/2008).
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on european sustainable transport policy is now before the house. the text was already welcomed, without causing any major controversy, in the committee on transport in january. only about 40 amendments were tabled. i have set as my main objective for this own-initiative report to be succinct, developing no more than twenty paragraphs, so that the european parliament could put forward its recommendations to the commission and the council in the most effective way possible. the vast range of topics covered - european transport, energy and environment policies - development and an excessive number of paragraphs would have weakened the text and made parliament's final resolution less clear and incisive. for the same reason, some topics were left out. an own-initiative report cannot deal with and exhaust all the issues related to transport, energy and the environment. however, this document can be useful to the commission for future legislative proposals and to highlight what european citizens expect from the community institutions. i have received eight amendments for this final passage in the house. there is nothing new in the debate on the transport committee. i should like to make a few brief remarks on these points. the green group has tabled six amendments and has asked for a separate vote on paragraph 16. the latter request removes the reference to the use of nuclear electricity by rail transport and i cannot agree with that. rail transport is the lowest co2-emitting mode of transport, thanks also to the use of nuclear as a source of electricity. number 6 asks the commission to take action to set a single speed limit on european motorways for all countries. it has already been demonstrated on several occasions by our german friends that the motorways in germany are safer and that the number of accidents is lower than in many of the european union countries where there is a limit. the principle of subsidiarity should, of course, continue to apply in this case. i personally find amendment no 2 more coherent, in particular the first part on cost transparency in air transport and ticket prices. amendment no 8 was tabled by mr blokland on behalf of the independence/democracy group. this text refers to paragraph 2 and analyses the measures to be taken by citizens to improve urban and extra-urban mobility. in this case i must ask for a negative vote, because the amendment takes the opposite line to that taken in the text voted in the committee on transport. finally, my group has proposed an amendment to paragraph 11 of the report tabled by the committee on transport, which concerns the revision of the eurovignette directive. i was not and am not opposed to the possibility of speaking on this subject in the appropriate places in june. the european commission has already announced that it will be issuing this revision proposal at the same time. however, i think that, in line with what has already been proposed in the committee on transport, i would propose that we should be free to vote on the amendments in question. i thank all my colleagues for the interest they have shown in this report and in my work, and since i know that many others have asked to speak, i will leave it to them to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report contains many good suggestions, but it is based on the assumption that ever-increasing traffic is a law of nature and that most problems can be solved by technology. i would like to emphasize two points in particular: the eurovignette is the starting point for calculating all transport costs, including external costs, because lorries are the means of transport which cause the greatest burden not only on transport infrastructure but also on people and the environment. even though commissioner barrot, responsible for transport, has promised that the transport protocol to the alpine convention will be ratified during the french presidency, i think that we should make an explicit reference to this protocol in the report. people talk about traffic all the time. but it is a fact that co2 emissions from transport in the eu increased by 32.1% between 1990 and 2005, aviation by 90%, while all other sectors were able to reduce the climate killer carbon dioxide by 9.5% in accordance with the kyoto protocol. we are too satisfied with lofty aims and pious wishes in this report. but it needs concrete guidelines and effective measures - including sanctions - or else everything will continue as the saying goes: 'the road to hell is paved with good intentions'.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just a few seconds to thank the constructive contribution made by my colleagues, both those who supported the report, highlighting certain aspects of it, but above all those who commented on it and the few, but with a reasoned opinion, who criticised it. i would like to thank commissioner barrot in particular, not only for what he has so generously expressed, but above all for the intense action he is taking on the subject of this report and for the willingness he has shown to enter into a phase of cooperation between parliament and the commission, precisely in order to be effective and to make the contribution that we all want to make to change - as he rightly argued in his brief statement - mobility rather than reducing it. mobility is the path of our civilization, it is our modernity, it is development and progress and we certainly must not repress it. we just have to improve it and use it when it's needed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have dealt with pollution and all the problems arising from the means of transport and their use. we should perhaps take a more general view, particularly with regard to co2 emissions, on the generation of co2 that comes from other sectors of our industrial civilization. i will just quote a few figures and conclude with this simple observation: while it is true that transport contributes 23% of total co2 emissions in europe, 43% comes from electricity generation, 19% from industry, 15% from residential and commercial use. and if we want to reduce by 20 percent by 2020 the emissions of these unwanted effects of our civilization, maybe we should act more intensely and more carefully on other sectors as well, as you see, as primary, as co2 emissions, rather than just in transport. and here the name of nuclear cannot be left out.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2008.
the following is the joint agenda for the joint debate: report by kyösti virrankoski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on draft amending budget no 1/2008 of the european union for the financial year 2008, section iii commission (2008/2017(bud)) (a6-0058/2008), and report by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (com (2008) 14008) c6-0036/2008 2008/2019 ((aci) (a6-0065/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 march 2008.
declaration closing the 2007-08 session of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main actions planned for 2009 are largely compatible with the lisbon strategy for growth and employment. the single market and competition certainly have some points which i support. there is certainly something to be said for a sustainable europe. unfortunately, the common visa policy is completely to be rejected, because in my view it is not only anti-national but also totally outside the mandate of this parliament and what our intentions should be. i am also absolutely opposed to enlargement to include croatia and turkey and even to a part of it that deals with kosovo, which i have already had occasion to condemn for the international lawlessness that has been committed when it was recognised as a state to the detriment of a sovereign country. that's why i'm voting against it.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the house for a very interesting and supportive debate. although there was some criticism of lack of money or that we again want to establish something. i think the most important innovation starts with openness and promotion of creativity. the result of the consultation and legislative process is really an example of openness, contribution, commitment and even a creative innovative approach. we have shown innovation in coming to this consensus and also in the context and content of this result. this is the most important thing. the mission of the eit is, first of all, innovation. it is one of the moments or follow-ups of the lahti summit of october 2006 and actually we only proposed the draft text one day before the summit. we never supported green-field investment to establish something new; rather, we wished to come up with a new approach on how to promote, organise, motivate and mobilise resources and partners in order to make innovation in europe more successful. i would like to recall that the commission never had the option to build new buildings for the eit, but to come up with the new approach. it took one and a half years: we started it as a part of the lisbon strategy in february 2005 and since then we have had many coffees and many talks that were very inspirational and very interesting – also in this building – showing that there are a lot of options or opinions on how to promote innovation. i am happy now that we have come to this strong joint commitment. many people spoke of the location. this is an issue for the council. i think the slovenian presidency will try to manage the process leading towards a decision. names have been mentioned already – some at member state level. some cities at regional level are also aspiring to this. it is a good signal that there are many ambitious candidates for the seat of the eit. there are also many universities and businesses and research and technology organisations which are keen not only on the consultation process, but in participation in the selection of the governing board and then in the work of the eit. as ms hennicot-schoepges said, we are not going to lose identity; we offer to share the identity between universities or existing centres and the eit which is going to be established. that is more or less all i wanted to add as a response to your points and support. once again i want to underline the importance of convergent, horizontal work. as you did in this parliament in your committees, we did the same in the commission. i was not isolated. i am not alone. it was achieved with the support of the president, the industry commissioner, the research commissioner, the budget commissioner and many others. i think this is a very important message for the future: let us work together, be open-minded and promote creativity. this month i want to propose that we declare 2009 the european year of creativity and innovation. it will link strongly with the proposals, ideas and policies we need to nurture and establish in europe. once again, thank you very much. it is not a fait accompli; it is, rather, the beginning of the phase which means establishment, and then the real work may start – and i hope it will start successfully.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
president of the juri committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rules of procedure require the european parliament to verify the credentials and to decide on the validity of the mandate of newly elected members. at its meeting on 25 february the committee examined the credentials of the 35 romanian members appointed by the competent authorities. these names must be supplemented by three others designated by the respective national authorities. in view of the large number of checks to be carried out and the limited time allowed, it was considered appropriate that the committee on legal affairs, and therefore its chairman, should inform parliament orally. the fact that the committee has recorded everything properly therefore gives the house the opportunity to ratify everything.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the draft common rules on civil aviation safety and repealing regulation (ec) no 2320/2002. i believe it is essential to create a simpler and more flexible legislative framework which increases the freedoms and decision-making powers in the legislative implementation phase compared to the previous overly detailed provisions. however, i think it is appropriate to make some distinctions, particularly as regards the link between airport charges and the costs of the services offered. in this context, i feel it is necessary to urge the commission to adopt as soon as possible provisions on the financing of security measures at european airports and the transparency of security costs, in order to deal with any distortions of competition in this area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr paasilinna, who intends to contribute to economic growth and the competitiveness of the eu by developing new forms of innovation through the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the eit aims to support the characteristic element of the level of competitive capacity: the "knowledge". the latter, by definition, cannot be a static concept, and can therefore only exist through a dynamic and structured process of research and new discoveries. the only way to achieve real progress is through innovation. today, the global market for the old and new 'knowledge economies' is dominated by competitors such as the united states, india and japan, which have always made innovation the key to economic development, and therefore enjoy a strong competitive advantage over the eu. the eit will therefore serve to strengthen the exchange of knowledge, to bring together, exchange and circulate ideas, to aggregate research from all over europe around macro-areas essential to the development of the eu's future competitiveness. the potential benefits to the competitive system of our market are almost limitless. it will be up to us to ensure that the 2.4 billion euro allocated is used properly and that the european union can face the future challenges of the world market with greater vigour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transport has an impact on the socioeconomic fabric of society and, at the same time, it has a direct impact on environmental issues. urban transport generates 40% of co2 emissions and makes europe dependent on and hostage to the market for fossil fuels such as oil, which accounts for about 70% of total demand. these alarming figures are enough to show the urgency and the need for a new overall transport strategy in europe, which could in fact be developed on the basis of this report. the pollution caused by transport must be reduced rapidly by restricting emissions of pollutants, by changing the composition of petrol mixtures and by continuing to encourage the purchase and use of environmentally friendly and non-polluting vehicles. the eu will therefore have a responsibility to implement an integrated plan to achieve this important objective, committing itself to incentivising rail transport which, when improved as appropriate, can ensure a high level of efficiency with a low environmental impact. the tens need to be completed quickly and require increased eu financial support. on the other hand, member states must ensure and supervise the construction of such works except in cases of proven environmental or health hazards.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give my favourable vote to mr albertini's excellent report on a european policy for sustainable transport, taking account of european energy and environmental policies. i believe it is essential that the eu coordinates its policies in order to develop urban public transport and alternative transport systems, while protecting the environment and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. as regards infrastructure, i note a continuing emphasis on road projects at the expense of rail projects. the completion of the transeuropean networks still seems far off and the eu's contribution is minimal compared to what individual countries will have to do on their own. in order to reduce gas emissions and improve the efficiency of freight and passenger transport, i reiterate the need for the eu to provide financial support for the implementation of priority projects in the framework of the transeuropean networks.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are among those who believe and defend the continuation of the cap beyond 2012. we believe that this report is moving in the right direction, but we cannot accept that total decoupling of aid does not provide for the possibility of maintaining partial coupled aid for certain specific sectors in order to avoid total abandonment of production. there are entire supply chains, such as tobacco, which would disappear if total decoupling were applied, creating unemployment and various economic and environmental problems in particularly disadvantaged areas. we consider that the gradual modulation of aid is a measure which may be excessive and probably counterproductive if the objective is to safeguard european agricultural production. we recognize the importance of rural development, but we believe that it cannot be implemented at the expense of the first pillar of the cap. in addition, policies to support individual cmos should continue to be implemented where necessary. the european union, mr president and mrs commissioner, needs a common agricultural policy that succeeds ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i thank the rapporteur for this very relevant report, given the complexity and the vast scope of the subject under discussion. i would like to stress two points which i consider particularly important. the first is that i consider the cap to be an important instrument which must be maintained after 2013 because it is a support for business. but that is precisely why it must be aimed at entrepreneurs, because it creates jobs, it maintains the environment, it guarantees high quality products. the second concerns the delicate question of milk quotas. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to protect those european regions where there is no alternative to livestock farming and milk production, but we must not forget all those farmers who have invested heavily in buying milk quotas and who could be in serious economic difficulties from 2015. i hope that a solution satisfactory to all can be found with the commissioner, also because in 1984, when the quota system was introduced, italy was against it and today it is still running a deficit of about 40% of the milk it consumes.
the agenda includes the report by mrs christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women in rural areas in the european union (2007/2117 (ini)) (a6-0031/2008).
mr. doyle, i assure you i would never have dared to deny you that loan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 march 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr csaba sándor tabajdi, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on sustainable agriculture and biogas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world financial disorder must be seriously addressed by the next european council. euroland seems to be wobbling under the pressure of waves of money fleeing italian, greek, spanish and french bonds to take refuge in german government bonds. the gap between italian and german bonds has reached over 63 points, as in '99 when it seemed that italy could not strictly maintain the maastricht limits. just yesterday, in italy, a bot auction was partially deserted. the telegraph of 6 march reports that a major investment bank, which has been speculating on a bid-ask arbitrage between italian bond and credit derivatives, has been forced to liquidate all the bonds. the italian treasury had to intervene to support the value of the bot. is it true or not what has been said for a long time in the high finance markets, betting on italy's exit from the euro? this europe is weak and to deal with problems of this gravity, national governments would need to use a lot more force than the old and useless measures proposed by the technocrats in brussels, by implementing the necessary measures and not the enlightenment recipes such as rate reductions and liquidity injections. listen to the voice of the peoples and territories! we must return to the real economy and implement worker participation and joint management in the ownership of enterprises!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the goepel report with conviction. the rapporteur's work has been very extensive and very positive. we have not been able to accommodate everything we wanted, of course, but the conditions have been created, particularly in the mountain areas, for the appropriate derogations to be introduced. this situation is not comparable with any other and therefore requires special protection, special consideration and special support. i would like to take this opportunity to refer briefly to the albertini report from yesterday. the vote on amendment no 5 will show that i voted against it. i have actually intended to vote in favour of this because i have been very positive about this issue for several electoral periods, as regards the alpine convention and the conclusion of the transport protocol by the commission.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the goepel report on the 'health assessment' of the cap in order to honour the work done in the committee on agriculture by the socialist delegation, which has achieved acceptable results on issues which have always been very important for the development of agriculture in the european union. the results are not yet the best possible, but we expect that, thanks to the effort and the spirit of compromise shown by mr capoulas and other colleagues in the agri committee, who in some cases went beyond their own national interests, it will be possible in the next stage, with the legislative package to be presented in may and elaborated under the french presidency, to achieve much more ambitious results, especially as regards a fairer redistribution of aid, greater transparency, better rural development policies, an effective safety net as regards the management of risks in the event of natural disasters, the role of agriculture and its contribution to the fight against climate change and in the context of biofuels. today's result allows the european parliament to hold a wide-ranging debate on the future of the cap, which must adapt to social and economic change while remaining one of the pillars on which europe is built.
the european union is not only a party to the peace process in iraq, but also a party to the peace process in the middle east, and we are also a party to the peace process in iraq. we also share the call for the oil profits to be invested in the welfare of iraq, but we cannot ignore the us-imposed laws which have instead handed over iraq's energy resources to the big us multinationals, allowing them to export all the profits and to make huge profits, such as vice-president cheney's halliburton. we certainly share the call for transparency on the rules and the legal status of contractor organizations, but we cannot ignore the fact that private armies of tens of thousands of people are operating in iraq today outside any rules. the report calls for the code of conduct on arms exports to be made binding, but it cannot be forgotten that this war costs six trillion dollars, which could otherwise have been invested in achieving the millennium development goals. a war and occupation that has produced hundreds of thousands of deaths; the european union has been involved in a war and an occupation that were and remain illegal and that were decided in complete violation of international law, unilaterally and against the majority opinion of the member states, the united nations and the world public. we must demand the immediate withdrawal of the occupying troops and their replacement by a un mission, whose sole purpose is to guarantee security but to suspend all war.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for these additional questions. regarding the question of lady palestine. i cannot and do not dare to predict, either personally or as a representative of the council, what the long-term solution to the status of kosovo would be. the fact is that it would be desirable if there was a possible agreement between the parties involved on this issue. this, as is well known, was the subject of lengthy negotiations which did not result in an agreement. it would also be desirable if the united nations security council had taken a position on this issue, but as we know, this has not happened either. the european union has therefore responded to the declaration of independence of kosovo, as it did, by the decisions or decisions of the general affairs and external relations council of 18 february. this is the framework within which an agreement has been reached within the european union. this framework, as is well known, leaves the member states to decide for themselves how to develop their relations with kosovo. but i would like to stress, and i am going to go over to mr papadimoulis's question or opinion, that there is no doubt that the european perspective of the western balkans also includes kosovo. kosovo is part of a region that was given a european perspective in thessaloniki back in 2003 and that has not changed. this is also reflected in the communication from the european commission, which i have already mentioned, which was published on 5 march this year and which also contains a special section on kosovo.
the agenda includes the report by neena gill, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the community in a research and development programme undertaken by several member states to improve the quality of life of older people through the use of information and communication technologies (ict) (com (2007) 0329 c6-0178/2007 2007/0116 (cod)) (a6-0027/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, speaking on behalf of ms viviane reding, i would like to express appreciation for the very constructive approach taken by the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur ms gill during the negotiation process on the ‘ambient assisted living’ (aal) proposal. i am not responsible for this portfolio and for me the debate was certainly not only interesting but very educational. i assure you that i will convey not only the congratulations but also the concerns and the proposals to my colleague viviane reding. i understood that one of the key issues is the use of ict by the silver generation and i do agree with that. it certainly requires both knowledge and financial resources. training for the elderly, particularly those who live in rural areas, is certainly important but it is properly addressed by the ‘ageing well’ action programme. affordability is another important issue and aal will address that. as far as other countries who would like to join are concerned, it is certainly possible and it was for that reason that you proposed a relatively low threshold. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that the commission welcomes and supports the compromise amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which will allow an agreement to be reached at first reading. thanks to your commitment, it will be possible to launch this important initiative during the spring. your continued support will also be essential during the implementation of the initiative. i would like to stress that taking up this challenge is not only a moral obligation but also an economic opportunity, a view expressed by many of the speakers. it is for the future well-being of our elderly citizens and also for our future competitiveness.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 march 2008.
the agenda includes the report by olle schmidt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/96/ec as regards the adaptation of the specific tax regime for diesel used as fuel for commercial engines and the coordination of the taxation of unleaded petrol and diesel used as fuel for engines (com (2007) 052 final - c6-0109/2007 - 2007/0023 (cns)) (a6-0030/2008).
all right, we take note of mr. lulling's specifications. i am sure that there will be clarification of the statements made in this house. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 march 2008.
the agenda includes the report by mr claude turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the global fund for the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy (2007/2188 (ini)) (a6-0006/2008).
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the commission's achievement in this area is due to a comprehensive communication which, for the first time, sets out a european strategy for gender equality in development cooperation, in line with the demands of the large movements of women who refuse to be victims. instead, we refuse to be victims and we become protagonists of our lives, of our sexuality, and we decide what kind of society we want to live in: a society capable of confronting and resolving discrimination, injustice, violence and even the militarization of states and minds. i am very grateful to mr uccas report for having gone into the commission's unheard of minds and captured them, which i think the commission will accept. it is not necessary to repeat here the figures on women in extreme poverty, illiteracy, aids or malaria, on the number of women who suffer physical and sexual violence, especially in the home, even in europe. it is the concrete actions that count: the european union must also be able to take action to combat poverty, to combat social exclusion, to combat poverty, to combat crime, to combat crime and to combat poverty. it is the mainstreaming policy which must be made even stronger and involves a severe commitment of economic and human resources in the delegations of the commission itself and in projects of great impact, such as microcredit. these are concrete actions for a permanent relationship with women's movements in local and national situations, in the networks of women between the different countries formed in the campaign against desertification, for the urgent resolution of conflicts, for the right to health, to housing, to water. i should like to say a few words about the amendments which seek to remove references to the various international strategies - from cairo to maputo - on reproductive health and women's free choice of procreation. defending life is sacred. the right to life, however, is also to ensure that there is no hesitation in putting into practice capable development policies ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. - the gomes report takes note of the dramatic and difficult situation in iraq. the ngos and the various bodies responsible for the reconstruction of the region are in fact unable to stem the problems arising from decades of war, dictatorship and sanctions. in this context, the european institutions have an obligation to support a comprehensive strategy for iraq, which increases eu support directly to technical assistance for the rule of law, justice and sound financial management, in order to safeguard fundamental human rights by creating regional stability and security. parliament called on the council to encourage investment by european companies in iraq by conducting negotiations on the eu-iraq trade agreement in order to bring the iraqi market closer to european rules. in essence, the european parliament's proposal, which i fully support, suggests a new strategy for iraq, including the appropriate use of the financial instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) and support for a pluralistic and independent information system. as rapporteur for the committee on development on the erasmus mundus report 2009-2013, i will commit myself from now on to increasing the financial allocation for iraq: the spread of culture is a fundamental step in the creation of a real rule of law.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are forced to discuss something about mehdi kazemi that perhaps does not need a single second of debate. if anyone were to be asked whether it is possible for a european country to end up handing over a person to the hand of the executioner and a dictatorship like iran, the answer would certainly be that it is not even imaginable. and instead the unthinkable is about to happen, despite the reassurances that come. so it means that there is something really serious, a kind of madness that is taking over this europe. some say there are some legal tricks that could lead to mehdi kazemi's deportation and death. this simply must not be possible. the founding principles of the european union, respect for human rights and life, have not yet been abolished. if kazemi is assassinated, no one can blame bureaucratic procedures, unless they resign themselves to the idea that europe should be made of this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i thank the 140 members who have mobilised on this and i hope that there will be a unanimous vote of this parliament on the resolution presented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to emphasize that, despite the somewhat well-founded concerns of my group about the risk of generalization of certain contents of the resolution, the fact remains that the information we are receiving from iranian sources and authorities is unequivocal. the fate of mehdi kazemi if he returns to iran will be death and that is why, contrary to the usual practice, i will vote against my group.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply ask, pursuant to rule 115, that the vote we are about to take be free of procedural questions. mehdi kazemi's point was admitted among the points of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is not a resolution on asylum policy, but the decision of the presidency was to include this item in the urgency resolutions. it would be a very negative and incomprehensible sign if a procedural reasoning were to remove a - i believe - substantive unanimity which exists throughout the whole hemicycle.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, war is again being talked about in lebanon. the political impasse, which has already led to 27 postponements of the parliamentary elections to elect the president of the republic, is likely to escalate, making lebanon once again the scene of inter-arab clashes and of the confrontation between iran and hezbollah and israel, which is currently underway. the arab league summit in damascus, as has been pointed out, has failed. however, the foreign policy of prime minister senior and parliament speaker berry is very active. two parallel, and hitherto non-communicative, diplomacies, which represent well the dialogue between the deaf that has been dragging on for months between the majority and the opposition. in my view, any attempt to contribute to a solution to the lebanese crisis must necessarily take account of both the internal and the international context. in fact, each lebanese force has strong references to the outside of the country, references that are more or less binding. in this context it will be important to assess the results of the summit between egypt and saudi arabia in sharm el sheikh today. it would be useful to call an emergency meeting of the arab league ministers as soon as possible, as requested by prime minister seniora, to try to bring damascus to a position which respects the independence of lebanon. in this context, however, i would not omit to analyse the truly unique economic and social situation, since despite the crisis that followed the war, lebanon had a gdp growth of 4% in 2007. however, the social situation is very difficult. on may 7, in fact, a general strike was declared by the unions for the adjustment of the minimum wages, while according to united nations data, one million lebanese out of four million people live below the poverty line: $2 a day. if we want to help find a solution, let us make sure that the date of 22 april does not pass in vain, because in any case 21 august seems to be an unviable date. it is the one that the candidate for the presidency of the republic has indicated for his resignation as head of the armed forces, due to the age limits reached. if the crisis is not resolved by that date, it will overwhelm the army as well as permanently exhausting the candidacy of general suleiman. i would like to conclude with the words of the prime minister senior: "lebanon cannot be governed from damascus, but neither against damascus". i think that is a balanced position, and a reference point for the european union's initiative.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would almost agree with the speech made by mrs napoletano earlier. i say this almost because i think that ultimately we must bear in mind damascus and other capitals, but what we must bear in mind is that in lebanon we are confronted today, in seemingly new forms, with a policy which has been expressed through the systematic murder of opponents. the more popular they were, the more the series of murders affected the former communist leader, affected everyone. we can therefore be attentive to the diplomatic dimension and we must be so, but if we do not bear in mind that in this middle east, as in europe in the years '37, '38 and '39, we are confronted on the one hand with a murderous policy and on the other with a political reality of murdered and victims in the name of freedom, even of enemies, i believe that we will not have the compass that can only be given by a europe that remembers that it is itself saved from the renunciation of national sovereignty, for which we have not had in these years european wars, except in yugoslavia and elsewhere, because the imperative has been that, which must also be there in the middle east, that something is based on freedom, on the rights of the people against the obstructive blackmail of all the dictatorships of the thirties, and today in the far east as in the middle east.
the lebanese people and the democratic civil society in that country are victims of a political crisis that has been decided elsewhere. on the one hand, the united states, which does not hesitate to play the lebanese card against syria and hezbollah in a pro-israeli role, in order to try to normalize an area that has been upset by its illegal war against iraq and to consolidate the military power of the israeli state. they can't afford to lose lebanon. on the other hand, iran, syria and their allied regimes are playing in lebanon a game for their political, military, nuclear and regional supremacy. it does not matter if that means the massacre, even physical, of the lebanese. they don't want to lose lebanon either. the role of the european union is not to take sides with one or the other player on the international chessboard. we europeans must do everything possible to try to keep lebanon politically united, protecting its sovereignty and encouraging dialogue between the government coalition, hezbollah and general aun, starting with the presidential elections. the chosen one must be a candidate who is liked by both parties. this is lebanon. the secular, multi-confessional nature of that country is a valuable asset for the entire international community and for europe in particular.
in writing. we have today approved the swoboda report on croatia, with a view to its accession. on behalf of the fishermen of the whole adriatic, i can only welcome the decision of this candidate country not to apply the ecological and fisheries protection area (efpa) in the adriatic to the member states of the union. if this situation had remained unchanged, we would have been faced with unfair treatment, with complete discrimination, between croatian fishermen and those of eu member states. the principle of pacta sunt servanda has therefore won, diplomacy has won, common sense has won. the will to abandon nationalist positions in favour of adherence to the shared principles of the european union has once again won.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to address a statement to the commission, to the presidency of our parliament and to the council which i believe i can make. if we get the recognition from beijing, even incidentally, that in all his public demonstrations and expressions in recent years the dalai lama has never called for independence and has always called for autonomy and even if it is acknowledged that in all his public demonstrations he has called for non-violence, this declaration from beijing could immediately be interpreted as a gesture of openness and maximum goodwill on the part of the government in exile and the dalai lama. i hope we would like to move in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the 25 colleagues who signed a letter to the cambodian president and dictator hun sen, raising the case of saumura tioulong, one of the leaders of sam rainsy's party. i want to bring this case to the attention of the commission as well. we have information that there is a real risk that saumura tioulong, who is also a member of the radical nonviolent party, will be arrested in cambodia at this time. so far this has not happened, i hope, thanks to the intervention of my colleagues, but it is a situation to be followed with the greatest care. i would also like to take this opportunity to point out to the president and to all my colleagues that the chinese embassy has sent us a letter in which it speaks of the separatist nature of the dalai lama's clique, which is violent in nature, according to this letter. now, it seems to me that this is just one of the statements and conceptions that we have to help the chinese regime overcome in order to bring democracy to china, to tibet and everywhere.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have followed with interest the discussion on cancer and i must say once again that cancer is not something which is temporarily on our agenda: it is something which is so serious for the whole of the european union – and not only – that we cannot be complacent and it will always be among our priorities. i have been described as an expert on cancer. i must say that i am not an expert on cancer. there are people here who are really experts on cancer, but i am a person who has worked for many years in the fight against cancer and i will remain as such. i have heard very interesting comments. i will try to answer some of them, but rest assured that i have taken note of all the comments that were made, and we shall include them in our deliberations when we formulate our action plan. concerning structural funds, the commission has now included health as one of the priority areas for funding, so the funds can be used for health infrastructure, including cancer. mention was made of carcinogens in the workplace. we already have strong european standards, as you know, on health and safety. the commission will, of course, work to keep those standards updated as science updates our knowledge of risks. i will work on this with commissioner špidla, who is responsible for this area of legislation. the suggestion was made repeatedly concerning the setting-up of an interinstitutional task force to fight cancer. i would examine this during the deliberations of the forthcoming health council in slovenia, and i would also make another addition to this suggestion: that i would like to see representatives of patients and of professionals included in this task force. recognition of oncology as a specialisation is something that is, indeed, very necessary, but i would point out that this is something for the member states to do. but, as far as i am concerned, i will exert all my influence in encouraging member states to do so. many speakers spoke about anti-smoking campaigns. we all know that smoking is one of the most serious detriments to health, and my intention is not only to continue the campaign against smoking but also to try to involve youth in this campaign, not only to make it less trendy for them but also to make them understand that it is to their benefit not to start smoking, and make them involved actively in the campaign so that the word is spread among young people, because that is the first stage to prevent smoking – to start with the young people. as i said, many other interesting proposals have been made. i will take all of them into consideration, and i will continue to work closely with members of parliament in reaching a very good action plan for next year. (applause)
for subscribers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the guidelines of this report. i think we must be clearer and more resolute on one point, however: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. important progress has been made in recent years and the hopes of cancer patients and their families have grown, but there is still a long way to go. i believe, however, that in this field a more secular approach to ethical issues, which often constitute constraints and obstacles to free research, would be desirable in each of the 27 countries. the priority objective, in compliance with the rules in force, must be to defeat this disease, which, in its various and terrible forms, unfortunately continues to claim too many victims in our europe. we have a duty and a duty to take this route.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking everybody not only for supporting the proposal in the report but also, and even more, for supporting the smes. smes are a vital part of the european economy and here, as i have already said, in the eurostars programme we are talking about smes which will be the ‘stars’ of the future. this is an innovative approach. it is not easy to implement approaches where we combine money from the member states with community funding, but it is definitely worthwhile, because that is exactly the direction in which we should go in the future. we are joining the best of eureka – flexibility, simplicity, decentralised approach, market orientation – with the best of the framework programme: centralised management, common evaluation and common selection. i can assure you that also in the other parts of the framework programme we are keeping our eyes very much open for the benefit of the smes. simplification is the name of the game, so we have introduced, as you are probably aware, a higher funding rate for smes than for the rest. so they have a 75% co-funding rate in the framework programme, while the rest of the bigger companies have 50%, which means that we are stimulating their participation. we have introduced a guarantee fund, which very much simplifies their participation in the framework programme, because the fact that they have to submit some bank guarantees in advance was one of the major problems for smes; and we are also about to introduce a ‘unique registration facility’ which will again ease the job because you will have to apply only once and all your data will be stored and the next time you apply this will be done automatically. therefore, if we look at the results of the first year – and as you know, we agreed about the target of 15% funding which should go to smes from the cooperation part of the programme – we can say that it is working. while in framework programme 6 we were not achieving the target, from the first evaluations and first insight into the results, we can see that this figure is closer to 20% than 15%, which is a major step forward. we are also working in the commission. i have just come from a meeting of the competitiveness group where we discussed the small business act – that is the working title – where we want to address all the issues connected with smes in an organised way. i would also like to mention that, although today we are deciding about financial participation from the community side, in fact this has already begun, and more than 200 have applied for the first call, which is an important success. finally, i should like to mention that i am extremely glad that luxembourg has decided to join. there is definitely no problem in substance. we should all do our best to make its accession to the programme as quick as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 april 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 april 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by guy bono, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the cultural industries in europe (2007/2153 ((ini)) (a6-0063/2008).
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a very clear view of the importance of finally systematically addressing the issue of adaptation to climate change in the european parliament, which, to be honest, we have so far underestimated in its importance. the opportunity provided by the commission's green paper to encourage us to look into this matter is therefore very important. we know that now. we are engaged in a very strong battle to do what we can to mitigate global warming and we are discussing a legislative package that should take a very important step forward in this commitment. and yet we know that the effects of climate change are already being felt in many parts of the world, especially in the poorest areas of the world and also in important parts of our continent and of our europe. we must therefore react and develop a suitable policy in this direction too, which is not at all incompatible with the priority action that must be taken, i repeat, in the field of emission reduction and the mitigation of global warming. i think that bali has made a very important step forward in this respect too, when it decided to finance the world environment fund by allocating these cdm quotas specifically to the financing of adaptation projects in developing countries. and i have seen, if i read correctly, that also in bangkok last week, in the first important meeting after bali, a work programme was set up which provides that in june in bonn, in the next meeting, the theme of adaptation will be the focus. i have taken up this aspect of the international dimension because, in drawing up the resolution which we adopted as the clim committee and which we are bringing to the house's attention, this aspect of international cooperation is my top priority: the european union is equipped to develop cooperation and financial and technical-scientific collaboration with the countries that need the most help, having less capacity to cope with the sometimes devastating effects of global warming that have already been produced. let's think about the pacific islands. we had a hearing where representatives of some of these realities came and explained to us the dramatic nature of their situation, already today. the other priority is of course careful calibration to maintain a dynamic interdependence between mitigation and adaptation. the third is a strong impetus for research and experimentation. the knowledge available is still insufficient to measure effectively, in the extreme variety of territorial situations, the effects of global warming and it is therefore difficult to set up long-term policies to adapt, to prevent the most worrying aspects. of course, the key point in the coming years, with a strong political will from all actors at all levels, will be integration with other policies. we have stressed above all the report, the rethinking that needs to be done to take account of climate change in cohesion policies, a rethinking that must also be carried out on the basis of the adaptation of agricultural policies and, more generally, land management. in this connection i think we should support the amendment which has been tabled to urge the council to finally adopt the common position on the soil protection directive. finally - and i think i have five minutes, mr president - i think it is very important to strike the right balance here too, between european policies and local action. we are, in fact, interpreting the principle of subsidiarity dynamically and not bureaucratically. the extreme variety of situations in europe means that a single policy cannot be defined. of course there are the areas of southern europe, there is the alpine belt, which have very different and very important effects. i think that the committees will have to establish a very close, two-way relationship with the regional authorities. i am thinking of large-scale regional experiences, such as the alpine convention or the carpathian convention, which are developing very important initiatives and which can also be taken as models to project them onto the international cooperation scene. i thank you, commissioner, and i hope you will tell us how the preparation of the white paper is proceeding, after the consultation on the green paper.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this debate is the first outcome of the temporary committee on climate change, which we wanted to have as a venue for developing a system policy, because adaptation and mitigation are intimately linked. we are talking about adaptation specifically here, but we must not forget how we actually have to make sure that the resources for adaptation also come from trade, from the emissions trading mechanism. because it is the poorest countries that bear the greatest burden of climate change, we must ensure that the resources that come from the emissions trading complex are originally made available to developing countries. i believe that we can do this by adopting a general principle of equity, which is to give free emission allowances, which will then be established, essentially on the basis of a principle of equity, which is that of 'one person, one emission allowance'. and so you see, if we think about the poor 1.5 billion people in the world with the quotations that we now have in the current kyoto protocol, which are about 20 euros per ton, giving a carbon right of, say, one ton could make available to the poor people of the world 30 billion euros a year for mitigation measures. think, this could be what bangladesh needs to be able to do this minimal mitigation. some african states are already thinking in this direction and so this principle of equity also means that we are the main responsible for this phenomenon and that we take on the responsibility of also carrying out mitigation. in our area, we have a changing climate which means more intense rain, longer droughts and less snowfall. we must therefore carry out integrated maintenance of the land for soil protection, and i stress this importance in the speech by president sacconi, precisely because water, in situations of general scarcity, must be kept where it falls precisely because it feeds the groundwater. and longer droughts also mean more fire chances, which we can respond to by clearing the forest to extract a fire load. but it is a general effort which we must make with consistency and determination.
i believe that even if we were able to keep global warming within two degrees, this would still mean that europe would be facing a scenario of extreme climate change, with consequences for the local economy, the environment and the population. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy. at the same time, we also need to invest in policies to ensure access to common goods, such as water, food and health resources in the most vulnerable areas. water is becoming an increasingly scarce resource and so there is a need for management that makes it available and accessible to all. finally, i want to conclude by saying that climate change adaptation policies cannot be separated from social equity interventions. a new model of economic development is needed that includes environmental costs and focuses on sustainability as a factor in employment development and new social policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to concentrate on two points. already today billions of people lack access to water, and hundreds of millions die as a result. climate change is bound to make this situation worse. the cost is particularly high for those continents, such as africa, which already suffer from terrible conditions and which, although they are the least polluting, suffer the most from climate change. the right to water must become a real priority of adaptation policies. i say 'right' because it has not been enacted yet. international documents speak of "water demand", and there are actual military and economic wars under way to appropriate water and to market it. it is therefore necessary to establish the right and to implement policies which will make it possible to make this right a reality. i think it would be useful to work on a protocol on water to be included in the documents of the post-kyoto agreements. and with water, the soil. we have a european directive that needs to be approved. desertification must be combated and the role of soil as a factor in climate balance promoted: that's our policy. good agricultural practices, as opposed to, for example, biodiesel production, can provide both food and co2 capture. adaptation, then, is not about surrendering to climate change but about taking action to combat it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not speak a second longer, or perhaps a second less, because i must simply say that i am honoured to have voted in favour of the report by my friend mr rübig, which sets out this draft decision to help small and mediumsized enterprises. what i would like to see done above all - and this is why i often cannot sleep at night - is that there are projects which take account of the experience, the skills and the memory of the elderly, who in small and mediumsized enterprises can teach young people a great deal and give an advantage to all our member states of the european union and to the european union itself. mr president, as you can see, i have five seconds to whet the appetite of all the members who have had the goodness to stop and listen to my statement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lega nord's vote on the swoboda report on croatia is a negative vote, a protest against the negative vote on the amendments which were tabled in defence of the sacrosanct rights of our italian venetian minority. in the unredeemed lands, istrian-dalmatia, rijeka, pola are claiming their rights, rights trampled over sixty years after the end of the war. it's a wound that needs healing. croatia cannot continue to remain deaf to the cry of grief of these compatriots who are only asking for respect for their history, their suffering and their rights. it is incredible that our colleagues on the left, who in our country accuse the league of having little feeling of italianness and provoke us by saying that the league's ministers will have to sing "brothers of italy", then in the strasbourg assembly, when the rights of our italian and venetian compatriots, who are still being persecuted and denied their fundamental rights, are at stake, vote with the heirs of the persecutors and the titin massacres of the foibe. perhaps the fault of our countrymen is that we are anti-communist and patriotic, as anti-communist and patriotic as we are in the league.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this measure, which is an important and further contribution to the development of research, innovation and, therefore, the competitiveness of european manufacturing. i welcome the fact that the funding will be directed to smes, which are the vital connecting tissue of the italian and european economies, which needed more financial support to create original and quality products that could compete with emerging economies. the creative potential of the eu must be supported and enhanced in such a way as to facilitate the implementation of innovations from our internal market without, however, running the risk of being taxed in the near future by intellectual property rights which might be claimed by non-european countries. new competitors, such as china, japan and india, are emerging with great prospects on the international economic scene, forcing the world market to face new competitive challenges through innovation. the eu's co-financing of the eurostars programme for smes is therefore a key step towards ensuring the competitiveness of european countries in the medium to long term. i am also pleased with the success of the negotiations for the compromise package which, by extending the criteria for sme accessibility, will ensure an innovation pathway which will affect the success and survival of european smes.
in writing. − the sixth community environment action programme, which has set the guidelines for european policy on climate, biodiversity, environment and health and natural resources, has achieved important results. however, as commissioner dimas himself has noted, the eu is far behind in achieving its environmental protection targets, especially in the area of air pollution, with its associated greenhouse effect, health and acid rain problems. the cut in funding for natura 2000 and the life+ programme is also raising serious concerns for small local authorities, who will suffer a significant reduction in their scope for action in relation to the effectiveness of environmental policies in defence of their territory. i can therefore only agree with mrs myller in her call for the commission to include clearer and more precise quantitative and qualitative deadlines and objectives in the text. moreover, while the climate and energy package, the revision of the waste directive and the revision of the ippc should help us to ensure a more sustainable future for europe, we have an urgent need and responsibility to revise the sixth programme to reshape eu environmental action for the coming decades.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by bárbara dührkop dührkop, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the federal republic of germany with a view to adopting the council decision on the implementation of decision 2007/.../jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and crossborder crime (11563/2007 - c6-0409/2007 - 2007/0821(cns)) (a6-0099/2008).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take a few seconds to emphasise that the court of auditors' findings on the implementation of the budget of the european agencies for the financial year 2006 are acceptable, since the accounts and operations are legitimate and regular. as i said in the committee on transport, i would recommend that the principles and rules be more closely followed in the years to come. in the case of the maritime agency, 43% of payment appropriations were cancelled and a concentration of transactions took place towards the end of the financial year. i also expressed my concern at the low rate of utilization of payment appropriations for measures to combat marine pollution, despite parliament's continued support for these measures. the agency for aviation safety has a high rate of carry-overs, amounting to 40% of operational expenditure, and the use of carry-overs and non-differentiated appropriations, in breach of the financial principle of annuality. the commission is therefore invited to review the agency's fee structure in order to rebalance costs and revenues for certification activities. finally, for the railway agency, it is stressed that the use of expired contracts and irregular renewals of regular existing contracts does not allow to say that all the transactions were legitimate. i would recommend greater transparency and precision for the future, however; in the light of the court of auditors' observations, i propose that parliament should grant discharge to the executive directors of the agencies.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one. the commission should launch infringement procedures and sanctions against member states which do not apply, or apply only partially, the structural funds regulations. member states must provide all information on the financial correction and recovery, especially for the next financial management. the commission should present to parliament a quality assessment of the annual reports received from individual countries, in particular by policy area and by policy area. the most important part is that the structural funds still account for a significant 12% of the improper repayments. the commission should explain how it can ensure that this money will be recovered, especially in cases where projects have not been accepted through procurement procedures. faster and more effective suspension procedures should be used against member states which do not carry out adequate checks. the point i want to make, and which i think is the most lacking in this budget, concerns external action: there is not enough information about who are the beneficiaries of some of the european activities, in particular the commission should provide more visibility on the projects funded by the european union on reconstruction in iraq in 2006, for example the projects, what are the expected costs, the agencies involved. these things have been provided, let us say, with some delay, but i do not think they are satisfactory yet. in particular, i think that this type of use of funds should be linked to the use of the agency for reconstruction, as parliament has pointed out in the past. i shall now move quickly to the discharge of parliament. first of all, the question of the three sites, which was raised by the rapporteur, to which we must add the financial cost and the environmental impact. finally, the internal report on the management of the costs of assistants: i think it was a mistake to keep it secret, which has given rise to a whole series of press articles which are certainly not good for the transparency and the proper functioning of parliament. that is why we are asking for this internal audit to be published.
mr president, i am obviously a stranger since i no longer give my votes at all sittings, because i asked to state the reason for my vote on the marian harkin report, the official took a note, but i was not called, perhaps he did not know who i was. mr president, you are the best of all vice-presidents, and i would like to thank you for allowing me to say that i am very much in favour of mrs marian harkin's report, which stresses the importance of volunteering in the european union. you know that the elderly, the retired, have a lot of free time at their disposal and many of them spend it for the good of their neighbours, for the good of other citizens, in europe and outside europe. i am very pleased that the commission is being asked to add to the youth in action programme the elderly in action programme, as i have been saying for many years in this house, so i am very pleased to say at last that a lot of good is being done in this area of volunteering and the elderly in the european parliament.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs bárbara dührkop dührkop on the initiative of the federal republic of germany with a view to adopting the council decision implementing decision 2008/.../jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. the new forms of crime that have emerged both as a result of the opening of borders and the enlargement of the union require greater cooperation between member states to curb crime and illegal immigration. it is important that this cooperation is not limited to the seven countries which signed the prüm treaty but that it is guaranteed, as suggested by the first amendment of the report, a system of procedural guarantees which is uniform throughout the union. i believe it is essential that the european union should have a high level and harmonised data protection system to ensure that the law is respected and that citizens are effectively protected.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr adamou on 'organ donation and transplantation: policy action at european union level on policy action at european union level for organ donation and transplantation' for therapeutic purposes, which emphasises the importance of health care for citizens at community and global level. i therefore believe that a constant effort is needed in research to develop new therapeutic possibilities and better technical and organisational procedures for transplantation, coordinating projects and programmes also between the member states. i also think it is essential to promote the culture of organ donation by carrying out awareness campaigns so that the growth of donations continues, perhaps by reminding citizens that they have four times more chances of receiving an organ than of having to donate it. finally, i would stress the absolute importance of combating organ trafficking both inside and outside the eu, recognising that this illegitimacy is almost always synonymous with poverty and despair.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we are witnessing a crisis and protests that are reminiscent of our bread riots, people being killed because they are hungry. multiple causes, which have already been mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. but what are our responsibilities? ziegler pointedly denounces the monopoly of globalization on the earth's resources. corporations are responsible for structural violence, they have built a world of inequality and horror. we have to end this, he says, do we want to hear it? the european union, in addition to the wto rules, has decided to adopt a community agricultural policy of subsidies which, if it seemed inadequate before, now appears to be quite destructive of international balances. the quota system for our cereals production with set-aside measures is also responsible for the situation we are facing today. we must beware of the easy charm of a pro-gmo campaign, which promises to feed the world, a short-term shortcut that would cause enormous damage. the british law, it has been said that it is crazy because it may pollute less, but it certainly includes quotas for biofuels that do not prevent the destruction of natural habitats. i would therefore welcome ziegler's proposal for a five-year moratorium on biofuel production as one of the things to do. the promises made to halve the number of people who die of hunger by 2015 must be fulfilled and louis michel is right, the increase in funding to the world food programme, although due, is not the solution, and the emergency package and the 10 million dollars allocated to haiti are welcome. it is a good thing to hear from mr louis michel, if i understand him correctly, that the funds already announced for african agriculture will go to small producers and thus help subsistence agriculture, which will help overcome the crisis, especially for the poorest, and not for export-oriented multinationals, which would in fact make countries even poorer and more dependent on imports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with what is being said about the rise in food prices. it seems absurd to me that we should think of feeding the developing countries by making them grow vegetables for fuel instead of food. i do not share the pro-gmo campaign either, because one account is biofuel and another account is food, and i am particularly concerned about the extra-european monopoly on patents and seeds which makes many of the eu member states and european agricultural producers extremely dependent. i do not think that the price rise is due to climate change or the high cost of fuel, which - although it does affect - does not do so to the extent that it is imputed to it, and it should be stressed that we are still enjoying a favourable euro-dollar ratio. i am convinced that it depends on the speculation of the distribution chain, especially the large retailers, otherwise it is not possible to explain why agricultural production prices in italy have changed little over the last seven years and certainly not in the proportion in which consumer prices have increased. in italy, both the large multinational retailers and the cooperatives operate with a cartel strategy in a completely speculative way to the detriment of consumers. the only way to restore purchasing power, in my view, is to put a moratorium on consumer prices. i agree . less market, less competition and less globalisation to help productivity and consumption. i shall vote against the council and commission's statement accordingly.
i do not want to add any more questions, but mrs marie panayotopoulos made a specific request on the subject of maternity and parental leave. you can allow the commissioner to answer, please.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, ana gomes, on her excellent work. the growing chinese presence in africa requires us to adopt a european approach to best meet the opportunities and new challenges on the table. china's contribution to africa as a donor is great, but in these few seconds i want to highlight two aspects: it is worrying for us europeans - also on the basis of the principles and commitments enshrined in the cotonou agreement and more generally in line with the overall framework of our development policy - that china, alongside aid, is unfortunately exporting some bad domestic practices, including corruption, bad lending, failure to respect workers' rights, a lack of consideration for environmental issues. another issue to be closely monitored is beijing's close relationship with some of africa's totalitarian and repressive regimes, such as sudan and zimbabwe. in this context, china must assume all the responsibilities of its role as a permanent member of the un security council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already said on another occasion that a privileged partnership with latin america is a strategic choice for europe, because of the clear convergence of principles, values, culture and interests. for this next meeting, in an attempt to go beyond the many redundancies contained in the resolution, i think it is important to stress that both continental partners have an interest in strengthening the exchange of resources - semi-finished products - high-technology production, with criteria of mutual interest without asymmetries that end up giving advantages to other possible trading partners. i believe that this is beneficial for both continents, partly because of the greater sensitivity to sustainable development which can undoubtedly be attributed to european strategies, compared with those of the united states and china, for example. the great european experience in the field of social organization and development can also represent an important added value in bilateral exchanges, hence, for example, the need, in my opinion, to strengthen the commitment to the creation of eulac.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 april 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the council and the commission on the visa waiver negotiations between the european union and the united states of america.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet the president of the council and the commissioner. we as a group welcome the council's approval of a negotiating mandate which will enable the commission to negotiate finally the inclusion of all member states, i repeat all member states, in the new visa weaver programme as amended last year in the us congress. at the same time, we would like to express our regret at the choice made by the government in washington, which had entered into bilateral negotiations with the countries that had recently joined the european union, a choice which is not acceptable in terms of substance and method. our group believes that the united states is an essential partner in the fight against terrorism, but at the same time we believe that the american government must respect the political subjectivity of the european union and its powers, as laid down in our treaties. if i may, commissioner, i would also like to make the same appeal to the member states of the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is worth recalling, as you do, that visa policy, as well as asylum policy and the fight against illegal immigration, are matters of european community competence and it is important to have sanctioned this negotiating mandate through the council's red lines that no bilateral agreement can be negotiated between a member state and the united states on matters of european competence, especially when such agreements provide for access by the american authorities to european union databases. we are now asking the commission to work towards an agreement, a global solution which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of all european countries on equal terms of dignity and above all reciprocity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the may part-session in strasbourg. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i would remind the house that the rapporteur is entitled to ask for two minutes, so please avoid any unnecessary intemperance, whereas mr rack, i believe, has asked for the floor on a procedural matter.
i guarantee an active commitment to make the lifts work quickly or to allow voting in the lifts.
thank you, we have no further requests or explanations of vote on this report and before we move on to the next one i take this opportunity to wish mr lombardo all the best and best wishes for his next undertaking.
in writing. − with the 2005-2012 drugs strategy, the european union has laid the foundations for tackling a worrying and growing phenomenon, especially among the most vulnerable groups such as young people and women, namely the spread of drugs in europe. however, the stated objectives must be achievable, and for this the eu needs the commitment of civil society, which has a key role to play in combating the spread of drug use. psychological stability, the follow-up of the patient after detoxification therapy, the creation of an alternative life also in terms of social and work, are just some of the benefits produced by the work of the recovery centres, the onlus and the ngos operating in the field. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that, in addition to financial subsidies directed to the communities dealing with the problem, there should also be an appropriate tax policy for organisations providing so-called 'ergotherapy' or rehabilitation through work. i particularly expect the member states to undertake to provide for specific exemptions from taxes or overly burdensome bureaucratic procedures. we must avoid the risk that these irreplaceable entities will be closed down for reasons of state budgetary or purely bureaucratic reasons in the work of accompanying the addict towards a normalization of his life.
in writing. - i believe that there is a need to foster, not only at european level but also at national and local level, a dialogue between and with the various actors of civil society in order to curb the dramatic danger posed by drugs. civil society must be seen as a key ally of the union and the member states in achieving the objectives outlined in the european union drugs strategy. the experience of the therapeutic communities in the field can support awareness campaigns by providing more and better information on the risks of drug use and possible prevention programmes.
in writing. - the report by mrs ana maria gomes on 'china's policy and its consequences for africa' highlights the leading role that beijing now plays in africa's diplomatic, economic and political balances. i believe that it is essential that chinese behaviour, despite having brought the spotlight to a forgotten continent like africa, should be contained and limited in order to avoid a new potential form of colonialism which has marked and written shameful pages of our european history. to this end, i hope that the eu will develop a coherent strategy to ensure that china respects issues such as governance, the fight against corruption, the protection of human rights, labour and the environment, and to ensure that there are clear and transparent agreements between the two countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barrot, you have spoken of a balanced approach. i must say that i fear that this approach is too timid, because first of all there is information that this parliament would need to know, namely that there are european union instruments for the promotion of democracy and human rights. these are new tools, and now you don't even have to get permission from dictatorship countries to spend this money. so either we are talking as spectators of what is happening, but if we are talking instead as people who are asking the question of what can be done, it would be important for us to know today how we are spending this money, who we are able to help, how we are able to bring information in and take information out of the country. for example, it would be important to reflect on how money is spent on the so-called fight against drugs, which in burma goes directly into the coffers of the burmese regime so that it can better repress its people through the united nations office. we should also raise this issue as the european union. the referendum, the referendum is not that it did not involve the different parties sufficiently as you said, the referendum is a cover to better continue perpetrating the massacre of human and civil rights in burma. i would like to say to the council representative, mr lenarčič, that since there has been a decisive involvement of the monks in the nonviolent struggle and since the monks have paid for this struggle with their lives in person, i believe that it was symbolically your announcement that you would not invite the dalai lama to brussels for the necessary political dialogue with the countries of the union, that this will have and already has a negative effect on the nonviolent struggle of the burmese people, and in particular of the monks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to be thought of as being a china-hater, because i have often criticised china's position in other speeches, but, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is no doubt about the situation in burma and the chinese government's clear responsibility for supporting the burmese state council. the same responsibilities as china in darfur, tibet and many other places on earth where human rights are being violated, and not least china itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i support the strong condemnation and deplore the fact that the burmese regime has not made any progress in respecting human rights and freedom of conscience in the last 45 years. could i not condemn the political and ethnic repression of the burmese people? i would like to take this opportunity to recall in particular the case of the karen people, who have been fiercely resisting for decades to defend their identity, and i also deplore the referendum consultation mechanisms in the constitution which are being imposed on burma. i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that i agree with all the sentimental things that are said in the resolution, but precisely because everything, as usual, despite what is said in the union's acts, remains on the level of sentiment, i think that it is absolutely useless and given the way in which the resolution states that the targeted sanctions, even if renewed, have not had the desired impact. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i also agree in substance with what mrs flautre has said.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to thank the president-in-office, the president of the council and the commissioner. we welcome the proposal by the president-in-office of the council for an integrated approach to immigration issues and this attempt to overlay and deal with the various aspects of this problem in synergy cannot but start from the fact that we all know: 60% of migrants arriving in europe arrive by sea and fortress europe has estimated by default that in the last ten years, 12,000 people have drowned or gone missing: the mediterranean has become the world's largest open-air mass grave. i believe that frontex is not created for humanitarian reasons, it cannot ignore this context, it cannot ignore the fact that we are also facing a major humanitarian problem. what are the difficulties and ambiguities of this project? frontex has so far been interpreted by the member states in such a way as to alleviate their responsibility, whereas frontex is a coordinating agency founded on a spirit of solidarity and reciprocity and which cannot be independent of the member states, and indeed the member states are primarily responsible for the management of the borders and also of the land and sea borders. another significant point: frontex has not had sufficient resources so far, and when we learn that there will be concrete means, structures, people and resources available to frontex, we would like to check their operational reliability. it is not enough to list ships and helicopters, we must really see how this wealth of resources and instruments can be made available to this agency. third point: frontex has not yet solved a problem which you, the commissioner, raised and said that we must help to reduce the number of dead and missing. how can frontex deal with this? we believe there is only one way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the message we are leaving to you, commissioner, and those are some of the points on which we, on your part and on the part of the council, would like clarification.
on behalf of the uen group. the experience of frontex must be supported and represents the frontier of european civilization in the face of the onslaught of illegal immigration which is so desirable, which very often represents very painful humanitarian tragedies and represents a great deal for criminal organizations of a mafia nature and for this very reason it must be tackled with the necessary energy. we believe, however, that the measures taken by countries such as spain, which has built the most sophisticated high-tech anti-clandestine wall with the sive system, are also working very well. it is useless to cry like crocodiles over deaths and humanitarian cases when nothing is done to defend our own coasts, as our country has done for a long time - just think of the situation in lampedusa - we simply have to prevent illegal boats from reaching the territorial waters of the member states. as regards the legal status of illegal immigrants, the arguments of those who still oppose the crime of illegal immigration are completely unfounded: the arrest and detention of illegal immigrants is entirely within the scope of article 5 of the european convention on human rights, which clearly states in paragraph (f) that one of the exceptions to the possibility of restricting the freedom of individuals is precisely those who enter, those who attempt to enter illegally into the territory of other countries. finally, europe cannot close itself off to the results of the full implementation of the schengen agreements that we are witnessing. it was supposed to promote the free movement of workers and students, but objectively it has created a sort of green card for the free movement of criminals. is that what we want in our territories? of course you didn't. then we must act urgently: the 2004 directive should be reviewed in the light of these findings. the member states, which were supposed to set income thresholds and the obligation to prove that the resources of those who enter the territory of our countries are legal, have not done so - for example in italy - and so we find cities, like the capital of christendom, invaded by roma and romanians who commit crimes, who rape, who commit illegal acts and are not expelled. let's think about these results.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a warm thanks to the secretariat, which has been very active and helpful with all the colleagues in the committee in drawing up this draft. we are now handing the commission a series of reflections, the result of careful and concerted deliberation by the entire committee on international trade. our committee wants a more effective and democratic world trade organization, ready, from the point of view of its institutional functioning, to perform the important task of regulating international trade, and for this to happen, reform is indispensable. the recent entry of many new members - china and the imminent accession of russia - highlights the success of the organisation, which now has 152 member countries. but that is precisely why, with its new dimension, a reflection on its reorganization is necessary. in the report we emphasize the vital aspects of understanding what the wto and trade multilateralism mean in terms of a new, stronger, more dynamic and more democratic character. our agenda is filled with the doha round negotiations, an agreement which we know is always around the corner but which has not yet been reached. the committee on international trade, therefore, aware of this problem, reiterates its support for the negotiations which must lead to a success for a more balanced and fair trade, but at the same time believes that the time has come to look forward to the post-doha with courage and ambition. in passing on our views to the commission, we ask the community executive to have the same courage and the same ambition to take a political initiative in geneva which could open the way to a review of the functioning of certain mechanisms which are objectively not working today. an institutional structure is needed which can improve on the present situation by distinguishing between activities linked to the negotiation of new international rules and new commitments linked to the implementation of existing agreements. the principle of consensus is and must remain the rule in ministerial conferences, but we must also think of ways other than unanimity in the procedures leading to the final decision of an organization which, having grown larger, needs a different step. we have thought this for europe, we must think this for the wto! the guiding principle of the doha round was to involve all the member states in negotiations on a plurality of issues, in a large organization such as ours, this formula must be revised with a plurilateral approach, a kind of variable geometry. we spoke of this in the past for europe, and it is necessary today for the wto! development is an important issue, and in recent years the group of developing countries has become increasingly large and diverse, and includes emerging countries and others already largely emerged, think of china, india, brazil, south africa. it is therefore in the interests of the countries which are still developing that clearer and more homogeneous groupings should be established which correspond to the evolution of the economic situation and require everyone to take on the responsibility and commitment appropriate to their economic strength. the wto secretariat, although prestigious and competent, and we have consulted it many times during these months of work, is institutionally limited: the role of the european parliament should be strengthened, with the possibility of taking initiatives and suggesting compromises. strengthening the secretariat means giving it a geographical representativeness which makes it feel like the centre and the driving force of action and organisation, in the interests of all its members, including those developing countries which today are not sufficiently taken into account for genuine development. transparency and the parliamentary dimension: we need to increase transparency in international dispute resolution procedures to strengthen our image abroad. the promotion of a parliamentary dimension to the wto must take advantage of the existing parliamentary conference on the wto to create a genuine parliamentary assembly with consultative powers that legitimize its work. competition and coordination with other international organizations is absolutely necessary, and we must therefore also strengthen relations with international labour organizations and with certain un agencies, because social and environmental issues of great international importance cannot remain outside the scope of the wto's activities. we must not forget that we must make trade disputes the norm and the strongest aspect without taking into account that if we do not find a way to streamline and speed up these procedures, we risk having annual disputes with a detriment to companies, to member countries and to consumers. we therefore warmly urge the commission to have the same courage as the committee of this parliament in identifying new rules to make the future of the world health organization more flexible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission for its appreciation of the work done in committee and for the support of the rapporteur from the committee on development and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the many colleagues who have spoken in this chamber. i am using this political and technical comfort to remind the commission that we must not waste time, because woe to those who have time and who waste it! it is true that doha can finally find a solution, but too many times in recent years this solution has been postponed and if there is a very serious food crisis today, we must also remember that some of the responsibility also lies with certain technicians, including the european union, who in some distant periods imagined different scenarios for the agricultural and food emergency. if we want to avoid a clash between the really poor and developing countries and the developed countries, if we want to make the market fair - and the market can only be fair and free through rules - we need to have courage because if we want to defend the concept of decent work and if we want to make litigation quick, we cannot accept another delay. the committee on international trade is aware of the difficulties involved in a reform project of the wto, where certain balances have been established for some time, but is also aware that the wto, in order to meet the expectations coming from many quarters and become a modern organization of the third millennium, must somehow have the courage and the courage to proceed on the path of reform. the commission has the task of collecting and making our own these reflections, which the european parliament will formalize tomorrow by a large majority in a political request.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr ferreira for the excellent work he has done. taking global responsibility for the fight against climate change is a crucial task that must be achieved at several levels: the world of business, institutions, but also individuals. as european citizens, we can reduce our ecological footprint substantially and achieve important results simply by taking small steps that can have a global and significant impact, including through purchasing choices. member states can help or facilitate the choice of organic products through market instruments. in addition to promoting research into new technologies, it is important to ensure that they are made accessible to the consumer and disseminated to the extent that they bring environmental benefits to the community. we regret that 16 countries representing the world's largest economies, meeting in paris on 16 and 18 april, were unable to agree on a joint resolution to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050. however, we are confident that the further negotiations in kobe and hokkaido will be more successful in this respect, also because i am convinced that the fight against climate change must be done at global level or else it will only be a heavy burden on european companies, making them less competitive with non-european producers without achieving the objective of global environmental improvement. the levers of the economy must be acted upon with market instruments and the way forward must be towards eco-friendly and sustainable production systems in the long term; i welcome the commission's green paper in this respect. the european union must promote the dissemination in the member states of market instruments which make it possible to internalize the environmental costs of products and promote energy efficiency and thermal insulation in buildings. i think it is essential that the european union reaches the target of 20% renewable energy consumption by 2020.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by alexander radwan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and the governance of the international accounting standards board (iasb) (2006/2248 ((ini)) (a6-0032/2008)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (rule 142)
madam president, i would ask, on behalf of the alde group, for a separate vote on paragraph 42.
in writing. the report by mr ouzky on the european strategy on biodiversity (cop 9) and the prevention of biotechnological risks (cop-mop 4) calls for the protection of biological diversity and the fair sharing of the benefits arising from the exploitation of these resources. i would like to focus mainly on the issue of biological diversity, insisting that the various modern techniques of genetic engineering must be developed and used for cisgenic and non-transgenic purposes in order to simulate processes as natural as possible. i agree with the importance of taking effective measures against bio-piracy, perhaps by affixing the ce marking to certain products and in any case ensuring that they comply with the community directives applicable to them.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mrs muscardini's report on the reform of the world trade organisation. a reform of the multilateral trading system, and in particular of the work of the world trade organization, has been a long-standing need, especially in view of the size of the organization, which now has 151 members. i think it is appropriate to stress the urgency of a reform of the developing countries question. at present, countries which have developed a flourishing trade, among them china and india, enjoy privileged and advantageous treatment because they are still considered "developing" countries on a par with less developed countries. i agree with the suggestion that the groupings of the developing countries should be clearer, more homogeneous and more consistent with the real economic conditions of the country concerned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i could not resist the temptation to give an example, which i think is very concrete, of the credibility of the authorities of the governments of iran. the undersigned, carlo fatuzzo, who is speaking now, was declared a supporter of anti-iranian terrorists, i repeat, anti-iranian terrorists, to my great satisfaction of course, at a public and official meeting between the foreign minister of iran and a delegation of the commission from the eu-iran delegation. that was five years ago, i repeat, five years ago. it is for you, mr. president, and my many colleagues, to judge how dangerous i am to the regime in iran. this is the credibility of the ministers and rulers of iran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must remind the house that when i was a member of the italian parliament i had close contacts with the iranian resistance and expressed my support for the resolute action to protect human rights which was advocated by the representatives of the resistance. i was given a veiled reproof by the government of the day, because i was told that realpolitik reasons prevented me from taking a clear and precise position. i say this because at the heart of this debate there is a fundamental question: we are here to give great credit to the humanitarian efforts of the whole of europe and of the european parliament, but all this is at odds with certain concrete needs which are related to oil, which are related to convenience and opportunism. and that is what we must fight against!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint assembly in ljubljana, after having reached agreement on the unity motion, saw it rejected by the african component, as has already been said. the drama lies in the reasons that have been exposed: the reason for this is that the delegation from chad was absent. it was clearly an excuse and an instrumental one, but it served to conceal the reality of the facts, the reason why the african component did not vote for the resolution. this means that, in the end, the reasons for political opportunism prevail over the reasons for fundamental human rights and the protection and guarantee of fundamental freedoms. i believe that the value of europe and the new history it is playing is precisely in not only witnessing but in fighting, because it is not expediency but human reason that prevails over all the alchemy of politics. i believe that this must be signed, confirmed and once again become a project for the very life of the european union.
in writing. the situation in chad has become critical. armed groups from sudan have been raiding the eastern part of the country, causing indiscriminate killings, violence and rape, especially among the weak sections of the population, without any reaction from the local government. on the other hand, the obvious difficulties in managing the growing number of refugee camps hosting refugees from the darfur region, threatened by the conflict situation that has arisen in the country between the government and opposition forces who contest the validity of the elections, have forced the local authorities to declare a state of national emergency. the first consequence of the measure, as reported by amnesty international, was the creation of an ad hoc committee for the censorship of newspapers and radio stations, which, in addition to leading to a series of arrests of journalists and political opponents, resulted in the disappearance of the spokesman of the party for the defense of the constitution. this escalation of violence must absolutely be stopped. the european institutions have the task, the means and the responsibility to guarantee and defend human rights throughout the world, especially in particular regions such as chad where citizens are already being tested by humanitarian crises and external attacks.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the many words of reassurance contained in the full report which has been presented to us are reassuring, but only to a certain extent: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. so we must begin to focus on the problems of the real economy and the impact that the euro and the ecb's policies have had on those who work and produce, starting with the small and mediumsized enterprises that are suffering under the weight of policies that are far from being immune from even the most accurate, constructive criticism that is necessary in the interests of our citizens and the economies of the member states. for example, i put two indications: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to maintain and guarantee the independence of the system of popular, territorial banks, which, with capital voting in the statutes and with maximum shares of ownership, are a bulwark in the defence of the real economy. unfortunately, the policy of the ecb - to which maastricht gave monetary sovereignty and hence economic sovereignty over our states - does not always seem to respond by its choices, for example by keeping interest rates high or low, to the widespread interests of real production and productivity in our countries. i would therefore say that we do not view positively the adjustment to the fact that since the euro came into force the discount rate has doubled, with very high banking transaction costs, for example in our country. it is not a good thing that the policy of reducing the circulation of money within the european market, pursued by all means, has continued, with the result of stifling consumption and internal trade in the vast european market. we demand that the first objective of a europe be to subject the european central bank to the control of the political institutions! there must be political control of the european central bank because its activity, because the question that the european citizens ask themselves and we from these banks repeat is: who benefits from the european central bank's policy? we leave the answer to your own reflection!
in writing. the eu's economic growth projections for the next few years point to a worrying slowdown in our production system. from 2.8% in 2007, eu growth will fall by one point over two years: this is expected to increase to 2.0% in 2007 and to 1.8% in 2008. this slowdown is certainly not due solely to the european internal market but also to a slowdown in global economic activity, caused by the difficult situation in the united states and the rise in commodity prices. the commission therefore expects a spike in inflation in the near future, driven by the rapid rise in food, energy and raw material prices. this is particularly worrying, since it has a direct impact on the living habits of our citizens and leads to a decline in purchasing power. on the other hand, this phenomenon is an additional burden for our enterprises, which are gradually losing their competitive edge vis-à-vis the new emerging economies. nevertheless, there are positive signs in relation to the employment objective of the lisbon strategy, with 4 million new jobs being created in europe. our task, however, will be to examine whether this 'new' dynamic in the labour market is in fact attributable to precarious work, since the effects of such data are only shown to have a positive impact on economies if they are able to create expectations of stability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i attended the meetings in tbilisi last week with the members of the interparliamentary delegation led by mrs isler beguine, whose speech i fully endorse. the situation is indeed escalating and the escalation of tension is likely to lead to open armed confrontation. in the official meeting, president saakashvili himself confirmed that this time it might not be days but hours. the unresolved issues in abkhazia and south ossetia are coming to a head and moscow has confirmed by official acts its willingness to establish legal relations with the two regions, actions which are calling into question the very territorial integrity of georgia, as recognized by the relevant un resolutions. the hope is that europe, finally with one voice, will play a more decisive role in the search for peaceful solutions before it is too late. it is all too easy to foresee that if relations deteriorate, there will be a chain of events throughout the region, events which will eventually reach our borders. we therefore expect a concrete commitment from the council and the commission. we must face up to the situation and take up our mediation efforts, or we shall unfortunately be held responsible for not having done enough!
i believe that there is a need to find greater coherence between bilateral trade agreements and multilateral rules of the world trade organisation in order to ensure a more balanced international trading system. without this coherence, the transatlantic economic council risks becoming an instrument for the creation of a privileged economic relationship between two great powers, a market between the two sides of the atlantic, oriented against the other world markets and with protectionist characteristics. on the contrary, europe and the united states must join forces to create a fairer trading system, putting the issue of enforcing environmental and social standards on the agenda and prioritising development, poverty reduction, environmental protection and cultural diversity rather than imposing deregulation that favours the rapid movement of capital and the profits of multinationals. partly because of financial speculation, the food crisis is spreading worldwide. the commission must put the question of the prices of raw materials, and therefore foodstuffs in particular, on the agenda, so that a price stabilization mechanism can be established to counteract the speculative maneuvers of big capital. work is needed to ensure that the protection of intellectual property rights does not create barriers to access to knowledge by promoting and encouraging knowledge sharing and technology transfer to developing countries. many trade disputes between the eu and the us are related to the use of gmos and meat hormones. the council and the commission must act in accordance with and in defence of community legislation, to guarantee the right of european citizens to safe food and a safe environment. it is necessary to start from the characteristics of european agriculture and to verify the real need to use products contaminated by gmos, always based on the precautionary principle and providing for the traceability and labelling of products containing gmos. the european union and the united states must also take a leading role in the development of renewable energy sources by developing technical solutions that are environmentally sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think you, commissioner, will understand that there is an objective contradiction between saying that the revision of the directive is one of the commission's priorities and then not actually proceeding along this road: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are two reasons why you should take on some extra responsibility: the first is methodological, we cannot stop and the commission must defend its prerogatives of decision-making! the second is political: the commission is aware that the current legislation does not allow effective action by the ca and that a revision of the directive is necessary not only to meet the initial objectives but also to ensure that it is better equipped to meet today's challenges. that is why i want to insist, commissioner: give a strong signal, show the courage to decide!
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the policies for the promotion of human rights are first and foremost the result of the effective powers of international policy which this european union has. unfortunately, too often, as in the report which we unanimously adopted in committee, european policy is in fact national policy, and it is difficult to have a european human rights policy when national interests are so important. but it is also true that when there is the political will, and sometimes it is achieved thanks to this european parliament, which has no powers in international politics, important steps can be taken. let 's see about the death penalty: the three resolutions of this european parliament have finally dragged and won over a european position which is important for the moratorium on executions which was won in december at the united nations in new york. we see how this parliament proposed a european policy on the tibet question in the resolution we adopted at the last part-session. there are also human rights instruments, but too often the european union does not respect its own legality. we have clauses on respect for human rights in all our cooperation agreements, but we do not have effective monitoring and suspension mechanisms, because those clauses really do allow us to assert respect for democracy in third countries. we have often, as europe, criticised the united states of america in recent years because the way of promoting democracy through the military instrument has proved ineffective. and that's the truth! but it is also true that we must have alternative instruments. it is not enough to say that weapons do not work, because otherwise we give in to the pacifist, neutralist temptation, but we simply say that they may be objectively useful to dictators. the weapon we have identified, and which this report explicitly mentions - and i am very sorry that there is actually an amendment from the socialist group which wants to delete this part - is the weapon of non-violence, gandhian non-violence as a political instrument, not as a folkloric appeal, non-violence based on right, making the right live, for the life of the right, for the right to life, based on knowledge. nonviolence is also a technology and so we propose in this report that 2010 be designated the european year of nonviolence, that the european union, together with the commission and the council, promote the instruments of nonviolence by helping dissidents, an active policy, by helping democratic opposition. this is essential if we are to go beyond a mere formal defence of the human rights texts in the document, and to make human rights a reality in dictatorships and non-democracies.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is of course a great pleasure that i can again participate today in the joint discussion in plenary about two key reports in the field of human rights and democracy: the cappato report on the eu annual report on human rights and the salafranca/de keyser report on election observation missions (eoms). i would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs on their excellent work. i also welcome the fact that the two reports on human rights and on election observation are discussed jointly because i think this is a living proof of our shared conviction that human rights and democracy go hand in hand and should not be considered separate. human rights are the foundation of democracy, and democracy is indispensable to protect and promote human rights. let me address the two issues on our agenda today one after the other. obviously i am only giving a general overview here but i am ready, of course, to go into more detail afterwards in the debate. election observation is a success story of european union foreign policy and thank you, mrs de keyser, for what you have said. as a result, i think, of consistent, rigorous methodology and independent, impartial long-term observation, the eu ranks among the most credible international observer organisations. this was confirmed in recent eu observation missions to delicate election processes such as, for instance, kenya (that was mr lambsdorff), pakistan (mr gahler) and nepal (mr mulder). upcoming missions include cambodia and rwanda, both recovering from a very painful past. as in 2007, these missions will be financed in full respect of the agreed budgetary framework. the well-established cooperation between the eu eoms and the european parliament combines technical expertise with political sensitivity and ensures that the eu speaks with one voice. i would therefore again like to congratulate all chief observers so far for their outstanding work. in fact, the professionalism of the european union eoms has been a top priority for me since the beginning of my term of office, during which there have been chief observers in some 36 countries. i agree that eu election observation cannot be a stand-alone policy but must be part of a broader human-rights and democracy-support strategy. there is a need for enhancing political and technical follow-up to eu eoms. we all have to play a role and the commission will use the forthcoming review of the country strategy papers to devise more coherent policy approaches at country level, as suggested in the report, to ensure that our actions in the fields of protection and promotion of human rights, democracy promotion, electoral support and development assistance aiming at improving democratic governance and the rule of law are mutually reinforcing. there is certainly room for further improvement of the policy. i will continue to do so in close dialogue with parliament. in this context i propose to hold a second joint seminar on election observation in the autumn, building on our successful meeting last year which pointed to the essential issue of follow-up as well as of sustaining the quality of the observation work. in these areas we have already taken important steps: eu eoms are now systematically thought into the electoral cycle and there is an increasing awareness for integrating recommendations of eu eoms into dialogue with partner countries. the two entirely reviewed methodological guidelines which have just been released, as well as the continuous support to training programmes for observers, will help us to sustain the thorough high-quality work by the chief observers and their teams on the ground. the second seminar could focus on enhanced visibility for eu eoms and the political dimension of the election support. we can, of course, discuss possible further opening of our missions, as mentioned by mrs de keyser. so far we already include observers for instance from switzerland, canada and norway. i will try to be short on the second part because our council president has already said a lot. this year is an important year for human rights as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights and the 15th anniversary of the world conference on human rights. i think what we should say is that the past year has been characterised by the pivotal changes seen within the un human rights systems with the finalisation of the institutional design of the human rights council. now the first round of universal periodic reviews (uprs) has come to a close and the second round started on 5 may. with both some eu member states and third countries under scrutiny, i think it will be very useful to analyse in a detailed manner whether this key innovation will contribute positively to enhancing the human rights council’s effectiveness. the relevant eu council group (cohom) – this is in geneva – has started to improve coordination in view of a more coherent eu position in the human rights council and will discuss in detail conclusions to be drawn from the first two rounds. i am not going to go into all the details now. i think the rest will come up in the debate, and i will then be ready to answer all the questions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union often deals with human rights violations outside its territory and does not realise that our policies contribute to the systematic violation of rights outside the european union. for these reasons, we think that the fundamental rights agency should extend its mandate to countries which have concluded stabilization or association agreements or even countries which have concluded readmission agreements with the european union. we think this is important for migrants and asylum seekers, who are often expelled from our countries and sent to places where individual freedoms and fundamental rights are not guaranteed. we can also speak of the country which is currently holding the presidency, slovenia, where citizens are considered to have been deleted from the registers and therefore deprived of their citizenship and are sent to countries such as kosovo or serbia where their safety is not guaranteed. we are also concerned that international cooperation in the fight against terrorism has lowered the level of protection of fundamental freedoms and it is for these reasons that the opinion of the libe committee on this report is an opinion which strongly calls for the implementation of all the provisions envisaged by this parliament, in particular on cia flights and the illegal detention of alleged terrorists.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the european union has long seemed to be deliberately immune to regimes that violate human rights, interested only in deepening trade and economic relations. the commission is increasingly being drained of the council and the member states in its strategies for promoting human rights in the world. we have been witnessing a conscious renationalisation of powers in the field of the promotion of fundamental rights for some time. the commission has never been so weak in its proposals on human rights and democracy in the world as it is today, as demonstrated, for example, by the rejection of the general use of the democratic clause voted by parliament two years ago. human rights have once again become a dependent variable of economic or military control policies, as evidenced by the so-called fight against terrorism of the bush administration. it is therefore important that the european parliament continue to play a stimulating role in this area, as mrs cappato's report does. of course, the report focuses exclusively on what i would call the individualistic dimension of rights. the same rapporteur voted against our amendments which sought to show that the promotion of the development of peoples and their social, economic and cultural rights, as defined by the un, is a condition for the enjoyment of individual rights. it is the very concepts of interdependence, of indivisibility of rights, that define this concept. the rapporteur has once again abandoned himself to the black lists of countries, in which the usual countries are attacked and the most powerful ones are not criticized. for example, we tried to point out in our amendments that turkey is guilty of a policy of annihilating the cultural, political and social identity of the kurds. a repression that affects millions of human beings, but nothing has been done! i would remind you that the kurdish question is, in my view, a determining factor in the conception of the future of a democratic europe, all of which is combined with general and generic formulations on human rights, which have the ancient flavour of double standards. that is why our group has decided to abstain in the final vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the subcommittee on human rights and to mr marco cappato, although i shall not be speaking on this report. i hope that the committee on human rights will become a real committee and not just a subcommittee. i would like to thank in particular mr de keyser and mr salafranca for their in-depth and stimulating report. i regret, however, that the report was not drawn up jointly by the foreign affairs and development committees, since the chairs of the two committees co-chair the parliamentary group on electoral observation. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular mrs benita ferrero waldner, for their commitment and determination in developing the human rights observation instrument, in the knowledge that democracy and rights require not only fair and free elections but also development and the fight against poverty. i have just one minute, i would like to stress the need for greater consistency for the post-election period, and i refer for example to the case of palestine. i believe that this is essential to be credible with our instrument, as is the continuity of the follow-up of reports and policies to support national parliaments. ferrero-waldner's proposal for a second evaluation seminar is also important, especially if we can involve civil society and local election observers, which would be a very important means of communication for us.
member of the commission. − mr president, because i did not speak on human rights issues earlier, i will now try to come up with a few ideas. i would like to add something on human rights. human rights dialogues have become an increasingly important component of the eu’s activities to promote human rights worldwide. in line with the december 2001 guidelines on human rights dialogues, the european union has established some 30 dialogues, and others – like, for instance, with central asia, southern caucasus, south africa and possibly also some important latin american partners – are also under consideration. civil society, and notably human rights ngos from the country concerned, are usually involved in the preparation of the meetings. we have also had very good, constructive results from some of our neighbourhood partners, and, we have to say, some more mixed results, like the recent dialogue with russia. by the way, russia was the first country where the commission and the council secretariat had a briefing meeting with a restricted number of meps as a follow-up to the valenciano report, in order to meet your concerns regarding better coordination and information. i hope all parties involved find this beneficial. the new european instrument for democracy and human rights is now also being implemented at full speed, with two calls for proposals for objective 1 – the difficult countries – and one for human rights defenders under our evaluation by the commission services. most of the country-based support schemes (cbss) have been published and are now under evaluation by our delegations at country level, so i hope that by the summer most of the projects will start on the ground. we are also actively integrating human rights and human security into all the relevant issues and policies. in the future, the new european security strategy will of course be there and i hope that we can establish a strong, human-centred approach to security, because human security aims exactly at encompassing human rights, security and development concerns. both are there – freedom from fear and freedom from want. i would like to specifically draw your attention to a few things. human rights within the european union have been mentioned by several speakers. there has not been a report by the european parliament since 2004 on this subject. yes, of course it is important to address problems, and we have two key instruments for doing so. one is the council of europe and, secondly, we now have a human rights agency, which has just been established in vienna, to monitor the situation in the member states and which will prepare yearly reports. i also wanted to speak about something which has also mentioned – by a colleague who unfortunately has left – the protection of christians in third countries. the european union is strongly against discrimination affecting any religious group and our dialogue with third countries takes this up whenever appropriate and we do indeed try to clearly mention it. i should also like to say a few words about the election observation missions. many have taken the floor who have already been excellent chief observers. i can only re-emphasise the independence of eoms, the coherence in their policies and among actors and particularly their professionalism. this will be the direction in which we would like to continue in the future. concerning women’s issues – of course, i am a woman so therefore you can imagine that i always take gender issues very seriously. i organised a women’s conference – very recently on 6 march – to which we will of course want to have a follow-up. there is mainstreaming and gender assessment in all actions. in the electoral observation guidelines there is a specific section on women. there is an important security council resolution, 1325, of the un on women in conflict which is pushing for monitoring. we will soon also publish projects related to women’s development. i would just like to say that, in the barroso commission, in which i myself serve, a third are women. i think that it not always quota, but also quality, that should also be important. in this context, i would just like to say that in general the commission promotes a healthy and reproductive life. this is important for women’s and children’s lives. this is one of the projects mentioned in kenya but also of course covers the whole world and i think it is important to mention. another very specific point is the icc – the international criminal court – for which there is strong support from the european commission. we give eur 4 million in the eidhr 2008 framework. the icc clause is in our agreements. we have made démarches to have the icc accepted with partners and there are international courts – if you think about cambodia and many others – so we are really working very carefully there. let me close by answering mr howitt’s appeal to subscribe here to democracy promotion, as others also have been doing. this is, of course, our bread and butter. the commission is recognised as the key institution in democracy promotion through our eoms and other election support measures and through substantial support for democracy efforts of third countries and for international organisations like the un, osce and the council of europe. please rest assured that we take democracy promotion as seriously as anyone else in the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, as i said, we in general, of course, support the international criminal court but it is then up to the criminal court also to see whom it protects, to what it is going. this is, of course, on the agenda of the criminal court. it is not our agenda.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am replying to some of my colleagues who are not here, but i would like to make a point. the report talks about minority rights, it talks about religious freedom and of course it does not talk about respect for human rights within the european union simply because that is not the mandate of this report. i think we have done so in some way, because we have not simply made a list of criticisms of the world, we have spoken about ourselves, about how we use - for good or ill - the instruments we have, about respect for the legality of the european union, when we say that the human rights clauses are not sufficiently applied and we talk about ourselves! i think that this criticism of our relationship is therefore not justified. i think that minister lenarčič has spoken a lot about the instruments that are being used, and the advice i would like to give, which is included in the report, is to talk more about the evaluation of the results that the individual instruments achieve. mr agnoletto has reproached me for not talking enough about the collective dimension of rights. in fact, i think that fundamental human rights are based first and foremost on individual rights, and even for genocide, which is the most collective and the most terrible of crimes, today one can take action against the international criminal court as individuals against the crime of genocide, and therefore that too is based on an individual right. the right to democracy is now a fundamental human right and this is an important tool to use. i believe that mainstreaming should pay more attention to respect for human rights in immigration and drug policy. in reply to mr howitt, i conclude by saying that the report does not say that non-violence is the only means of promoting human rights, but that it is the most appropriate means. nonviolence not only as nonviolence, as pacifism, no, instead nonviolence as the active action of disobedience, of sabotage, of an authoritarian power and a dictatorship! we therefore make the political proposal that the european union should promote the technologies and techniques of nonviolence in the promotion of human rights and democracy. i hope that this paragraph will be saved by tomorrow's vote!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, believers should know better than i do, as an unbeliever as i am, that from 13 to 17 may, the biggest festival in the buddhist calendar, wesak, the birth of the buddha, is also being celebrated in vietnam. it seems, but it is also certain as far as we are concerned, that even now in vietnam the supreme patriarch of the unified buddhist church, thich huyen quang, who has been confined to his monastery for 26 years, and the candidate of many of us, thich quang do, his deputy, will not be able to even perform their rites freely. in 26 years, mr president, 15 times we as a parliament have called for their release. i understand that time has run out, but the time of shame for europe has not run out, it has returned, ladies and gentlemen, look out!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like mr pannella, i too wanted to draw the attention of my colleagues to what is happening in vietnam, not only to the issue of the leaders of the unified buddhist church, who are in their 80s and have been in prison for over 20 years, but also to the persecution of the mountaineers, who live in the central hills of vietnam. we are hearing from koksor and the montagnard foundation, for example, on 28 april, when y-tao eban was killed by the vietnamese police and security forces, or on 15 april, when two mountain children were killed by four vietnamese police officers. this is to urge the adherence of the letters which we have distributed to all colleagues to the vietnamese regime and to urge the international community and the european institutions to react to the situation in vietnam.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group's word on the ex-stubb report is transparency. there is no doubt that there is a tendency - and we have heard some of its representatives here - to underestimate, probably in good faith, the effects and effectiveness of the work of the lobbies, even in ways that none of us serious, in good faith, sympathetic and respectful of others can even imagine. the facts are clear and they come out again every day: for example, we have known for a few weeks that there are 34 officials within the commission who are paid directly by private companies. a recent study showed that most groups - not just mine but probably others - have excluded themselves from the vote. it also showed that the majority of the amendments tabled on reach are lobbyist in origin. it is also clear that among the officials who assist the work of members of parliament, there are some who work or have worked for companies in certain committees who now come to work for us as national experts and of course the members do not know this. so let us say that the lobbying issue is not over with the work we are doing today and i believe that commissioner kallas's work is not over with the report we are adopting today. that is why we have absolutely and convincingly supported all those amendments and all the work that has been done by everyone, including the socialist group, the group of the european people's party and the liberal group, on those amendments and those texts which seek to improve this situation and to make transparency easier. but there are still problems with this stubb report which we hope to be able to resolve by voting. the first is the lawyers' theme: when lawyers work with us and try to influence legislation, they're lobbyists, even when they're giving legal advice. we hope that this amendment will be rejected. then there is the issue of defining when this code of conduct should come into force, and it must come into force before the next european elections, otherwise we will be dealing with another issue for an excessively long period of time. finally, mr president, i think that the lobbying issue cannot be resolved by saying that we do not like it, that we criminalise lobbying, but we think that the problem of transparency is knowing who the people are, what they do and who pays them. so the problem of financial disclosure is a subject which is probably not very clear in this report but which may become so, and on this i agree with mr carnero with the work that the working party that will be set up will have to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree that we need a compulsory register, a register with a code of conduct for lobbyists, but one that applies to all the institutions and, above all, i dare say, to the commission. it is obviously essential that the code of ethics should provide for penalties in the event of misconduct and the obligation of financial transparency. it is important that these tools should be easily accessible and thus searchable via the internet. the friedrich report acknowledges that thousands of lobbyists seek to influence the decisions of the institutions, although it must be acknowledged that on a number of occasions they inform and detail members of parliament about different aspects of the measures. i am not, as those who know me know, inclined to be influenced by anyone, but that does not mean that in order to ensure independent decisions, to monitor activities which often also have the intention of influencing the allocation of community funds and the monitoring and application of legislation, it is necessary to operate in full compliance with strict ethical criteria. i shall therefore vote in favour of the fredrich report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of the new article 149 in the treaty of lisbon is a recognition of the important economic and social role played by sport. the detailed report by mr manolis mavrommatis highlights the many areas of interest to sport, and i should like to focus on a few in particular. first, the relationship between sport and health: although it is now widely recognised that physical activity is essential for maintaining good health, there is a worrying trend in some member states of the european union to reduce the number of hours devoted to sport in schools. this, combined with poor nutrition, creates an army of obese children, with possible negative repercussions on their physical condition. sport as an original and fun way to learn a language: i was aware of the efficient organization and spread in britain of study holidays for the learning of shakespeare's language through the practice of various sports disciplines as far back as the early 1970s. sport should support the brotherhood of peoples, unfortunately it is not always so: we regularly witness scenes of unspeakable violence in and out of stadiums, especially in football. amateur and professional sport, uncontaminated and unpolluted sport, sport as a means of personal development, as a means of cohesion and solidarity between peoples: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the hope remains that the white paper on sport will be a timely denunciation designed to bring about a decisive reversal of the trend and to recover too much insensitivity and too many culpable omissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on a report which aims to give strategic guidance on the role of sport in the european union. sport is a social phenomenon which has always generated values such as solidarity, team spirit and identity, as stated in the declaration on the total importance of sport annexed to the treaty of amsterdam. sport helps to develop physical, intellectual and social skills, so sport should be practised both in the education system and in other aspects of social life. the practice of sport for the disabled is not to be underestimated: all member states, local and regional authorities and sports organisations should ensure and facilitate access to sports facilities for disabled people. in contemporary society, sport faces new threats such as the exploitation of young players, doping, racism, violence and money laundering. the problem of violence is not only inside the stadium, but also outside. i welcome the commission's commitment to preventing unrest by facilitating dialogue with member states, international organisations, sports organisations and law enforcement. it is also important to stress the economic side of sport. discriminatory tax regimes applied in the member states in favour of players may have distortive effects on competition. rules are therefore needed to ensure a competitive balance between sports clubs.
i have received 11 requests for intervention at the moment, which cannot therefore be granted. i would remind members who will not be speaking in the debate that they may submit a written statement of no more than 200 words which will be attached to the full report of the debate or make explanations of vote at the end of the speeches.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately and we shall proceed to the vote immediately. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i express my appreciation for the work of rapporteur mavrommatis and welcome the much awaited sports booklet adopted by the commission, a useful and necessary measure for a dimension as important to european society as sport. i would like to stress the position of the committee on employment and social affairs, which emphasizes that sport must be a social value, especially for young people, by promoting their education in tolerance, respect and sharing. i believe that it is important for member states, supported by clear and transparent community policies and guidelines, to provide suitable spaces for the practice of sport, involving all of society, including the most disadvantaged groups, so that sport is a common ground and helps to combat phenomena such as racism and xenophobia. i believe that cooperation between the sports and health sectors is essential and that the european union must play a coordinating role in informing citizens and encouraging them to take part in various sports activities.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes the report by ms frassoni, which approves the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between parliament and the commission on procedures for implementing council decision 1999/468/ec, as amended by decision 2006/512/ec. in this context, the commission underlines that paragraph 11 of the agreement covers extremely urgent cases in general. the commission would like to thank parliament and in particular mr galeote and mr corbett for the excellent spirit of cooperation which prevailed during the negotiation of this agreement. yesterday the commission approved the agreement and president barroso will sign it in the coming days.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr swoboda of the socialist group for withdrawing this amendment for the sake of simplification and also to make it clear that the proposal is not, so to speak, the only instrument. i would like to make an oral amendment to the amendment proposed by the group of the european people's party, including the simplification: the beginning of the paragraph reads, "considers nonviolence to be the most appropriate instrument", the rest of the paragraph continues as follows. i also ask that the word nonviolence be written in a word in the different language versions because it is not simply a negative concept of nonviolence, but a positive concept of action as the dalai lama, gandhi and other personalities in history teach us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a deletion of the words 'when they act in accordance with the role laid down in the treaties and carry out the tasks assigned to them by the treaties'. it is because regions and local authorities, unlike private lobbyists, represent general interests that it would be reductive to equate regions and local authorities with private lobbyists. many european regions and local authorities are, according to their statutes, able to take action to a greater extent than is provided for in the treaties to defend the community territory, on the territory of the community, the public interests in question. i therefore asked that the last words of the amendment be deleted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is proof that lobbies work! (applause from the centre and the left)
madam president, it seems that european english has betrayed us. therefore, because the text of this amendment is apparently not very clear, my group will withdraw amendment 15 on the question of the bands of money requested to declare the financial disclosure of a lobbyist. but we really do hope, even if the vote is not going as we would like it to go, that, during the discussion of the working group, this issue will be clarified and will come back. thank you very much, and i thank everybody for the work we did together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i am making this declaration of vote under your presidency, mr morgantini, and also following the welcome applause of the members behind me. i want to say personally, and this concerns me as an individual member and also as a representative of the party of retired persons, that i voted against this report on lobbying because i was negatively impressed by the fact that it is taken for granted and therefore regulated that members of the european parliament are influenced in their decisions by other people. it is true that i have always been influenced in my decisions by carlo fatuzzo, only by carlo fatuzzo and by no one else but carlo fatuzzo, so i find it very strange that this possibility is accepted. if there is anything that can be done to make us understand the documents we are voting on better, we should have experts who say the opposite of each other and then we decide with our intelligence. i would like to ask you, mr president, and myself, in conclusion: who influenced the decision to regulate lobbying? so there is a lobby, the lobby of the lobbies, which has influenced the lobbying provision!
i see you're still an autarchist, so i hope you'll have a chance to relate to others.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the frassoni reports on the new comitology procedures. the new powers granted to parliament in the 'merit' procedure with a right of scrutiny, which allow members to block the progress of a text approved by the committee if the experts have not respected their mandate, is a major success for parliament and an important step towards rebalancing the powers of the european institutions. i agree that the efficiency of the procedure should be improved by making the committee's decisions more accessible and clearer. i am also in favour of the establishment of an electronic register which will allow greater control over decisions taken in comitology. i certainly think it is essential that the limitations on the three-month period for the ep's right of scrutiny be limited to exceptional cases only, in line with the letter of the interinstitutional agreement of july 2007: the shortening of the time limit should be granted only in cases of urgency and efficiency. some ep committees have already successfully tested the effectiveness of the threat of vetoes to get immediate answers and clarifications from the commission. i therefore believe that this is an instrument which parliament will have to use more and more to exercise political control over the decisions of the technicians.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the protection of human rights, since we are still too often witnessing violations of these rights. the european union includes them among its fundamental principles to the extent that respect for human rights is rightly a prerequisite for accession to the european union. the european union therefore has a responsibility to act as a guarantor of these rights in europe and in non-european countries, through a coherent common foreign policy, independent of the interests and positions of the member states, by promoting the ratification of the statute of the international criminal court throughout the world to protect individuals from so-called crimes against humanity and to prevent genocide and other atrocities from being committed in the future without fear of impunity, and by increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the unhcr. i also think it is important that the un resolution on a universal moratorium on the death penalty be followed up. the european union must also contribute to the respect of human rights vis-à-vis important trading partners. i hope that china will eliminate the practice of torture as an important sign of openness to a culture of respect for human rights, consistent with the spirit of peace which has always been the symbol of the olympic games.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this report because i am convinced that free trade is a necessary step towards global well-being. however, our support for any supranational economic agreement can only be based on strict rules which in effect bind the parties to ratify the fundamental ilo conventions, thus guaranteeing the protection and defence of workers. the rapporteur recalled that asean as a whole is the eu's fifth largest trading partner, which highlights the many commercial interests in this region, which is certainly a fast-growing market. this strong presence and the absence of effective local legislation in the field of employment oblige us, through the new agreement, to provide for strict regulation not only of an economic nature but, above all, of a social, environmental and human rights nature, thus also limiting the effect of 'dumping'. the safety of products, the protection of workers and the environment cannot and must not be jeopardized by any kind of purely economic agreement. we all have a moral and institutional obligation to find the courage to be much more rigorous and selective in the choice of our trading partners, so that europe can be an example for the rest of the world.
in writing. - i am very pleased to vote in favour of mr mavrommatis' report on the protection of sport. i believe that sport is an integral part of european culture and citizenship and, as an important tool for social inclusion and the promotion of intercultural dialogue, it must finally be regulated to protect young people and to protect them from the dangers inherent in the sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the complex sporting system cannot survive without the means of financing which, in many cases, derive from television rights. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to recognise both the right of the media to acquire coverage of sporting events and broad public access, at least to the main events. i am pleased to note that the report also deals with the call for sporting fairness, the call for the fight against racism and the fight against doping, which, apart from the possible repercussions, is the most unsportsmanlike thing there is. it is therefore right that cooperation at all levels should be stepped up to tackle the problem, since doping undermines the very essence of sport: love for competition, putting ourselves on the line and bringing out the best in ourselves. a challenge that has always engaged man.
in writing. - the report by mr manolis mavrommatis on the white paper on sport. in fact, i recognise the important role that sport plays in the life of each person and in society, as it is a means through which the individual overcomes personal challenges, discovers his passions and talents, identifies himself in a group, understands the importance of respecting the rules: extending these values internationally, it is understood how sport can break down geographical barriers and promote social relations and peace. i think it is appropriate to stress that any kind of transgression in sport of the rules of civil and moral ethics, such as doping, deliberate racist acts or gambling, must be punished by seeking, as a preventive measure, to recover the ideal of sport and its ultimate goal. finally, i would like to remind you that the growing importance of certain sports at the expense of others is often justified by the large disparity in the salaries of players in different sports. in this connection, i believe that some support measures should be introduced for the less widespread and less well-known sports.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
the green group/european free alliance supports this proposal and supports it in both cases both because we believe it is important to discuss what is happening to the roma in the european union as such, but with what has happened in italy in recent days in mind, and also because we all know that there are ways in which the european union can intervene, but these ways are not known and are not discussed. we are perfectly happy to have this debate from both sides, but i fear that it will not be the last, at least as far as italy is concerned.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group does not usually like first reading agreements, because they often degrade the quality of the law in the rush and pressure to reach an agreement. i have to say, mr nassauer, that if you had asked me a year ago whether i thought we would have reached a bipartisan agreement on the protection of the environment in criminal matters, with mr nassauer as rapporteur and on first reading, i probably would not have believed it. it is not just the commission, but also the council, which has been able to achieve this, and the rapporteur, and also the shadow rapporteurs, and of course the very valuable work of the committee on the environment. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues, my collaborators, very sincerely, because this is an important result, as everyone else has said. mr president, there is no doubt that the court's ruling did not allow us to impose sanctions and that has cut our wings a little, but that is also why i hope that after this vote we, as a european union, will not forget this matter. i think we shall have to take up this subject again with some vigour when the treaty of lisbon is ratified. as with everything in life, this directive is not perfect. we do not like the complicated annex, for example, which gives a long, though complete, list of the directives to which this new law will have to apply. we would simply have preferred a system proposed by the commission and approved by the committee on the environment, which made it very clear that a whole range of offences were automatically considered to be punishable by criminal law beyond the reference directives. we are not particularly pleased with the fact that the transposition period is two years. we think that better could have been done and we are also, as mr wallis has already said, extremely pleased that the obligation has come into force for the member states to draw up correlation tables, that is to say, the member states must tell us quickly how they apply the laws, which they very often do not do. we are, however, absolutely satisfied and happy that a number of crimes today will no longer be decriminalized. i come from a country, italy, where this temptation has existed, has been realised and i am glad that with this directive hunting, destruction of natural sites, abuse and other such matters can no longer go unpunished.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 may 2008.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the carriage of goods by road between member states.
it should have taken the floor now, as rapporteur, but it has appointed teresa riera madurell as its substitute, whom we have not yet seen and whose absence we greatly regret. i shall now pass the floor to the speakers on behalf of the groups.
i am sure that riera madurell is not here, but i am sure that the rapporteur, mrs pia elda locatelli, will be in touch because the things that the commissioner said are extremely important. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by sergio berlato, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 as regards the transfer of tobacco aid to the community tobacco fund for the years 2008 and 2009 and regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards the financing of the community tobacco fund (com (2008) 0051 - c6-0062/2008 - 2008/0020 (cns)) (a6-0164/2008).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european commission's proposal essentially provides for the 5% deduction on tobacco-related aid to be extended for the 2008-2009 marketing year and for these funds to be used to continue financing the community tobacco fund, which exclusively funds information programmes aimed at improving european citizens' knowledge of the harmful effects of the consumption of tobacco products. i think it is appropriate to emphasize a few objective elements of the evidence. the transfer of resources from cap aid to the fund is a rare and positive example of integration and cooperation between the agricultural and health policies of the european union. as the fund's work is important for the citizens of the union, and will remain important in the years to come, as the commission has also stressed, we do not believe that it can be expected to cease its financial support in 2007 or 2009. the deduction made from coupled aid granted to farmers has always been the sole source of financing for the community tobacco fund. the financial basis of this deduction has been considerably reduced by the reform of the tobacco cmo and by the choice made by some member states to apply total decoupling, totally uncoupling these resources from the deduction to the fund. it is necessary to provide, through a further extension of the period of application of the deduction and an increase in the percentage of the deduction, that sufficient financial resources are made available to the programmes and the fund without any additional expenditure to the union budget at least until the end of the current financial perspective, while also seeking other sources of funding for the fund. other positive aspects of the fund's mechanism of action include the provision for co-financing by proven proposers of at least 25% of the total amount of approved projects, thus increasing the availability of resources. the committee on agriculture has dealt with these issues on a number of occasions and remains committed to strengthening the measures against smoking and to improving the communication to the public on the harmful effects of smoking on human health. on the other hand, we are fully aware, as already documented in the legislative resolution of the european parliament of 10 march 2004, that the level of european production of raw tobacco, now further reduced and concentrated in a few specific areas of the union, represents less than 4% of world production and has no impact on local consumption of tobacco products. although this is not the subject of today's debate, it should be remembered that the european union is the world's leading importer of raw tobacco and that it sources more than 70% of its needs from third countries, with tobacco often produced under less controlled conditions than the european product, mainly from brazil, malawi, argentina, indonesia, zimbabwe, india and china, also resulting in a trade deficit of more than eur 1.2 billion a year. on the other hand, in the member states where tobacco aid has already been completely decoupled, in addition to the cancellation of transfers to the fund, there has been a total abandonment of tobacco production without any economically and employment-friendly alternatives emerging, with very serious negative impacts on the entire rural area concerned and without causing, as was logically expected, any change in local consumption of tobacco products. as regards the proposal to apply a deduction to aid for the 2008 calendar year, taking into account that the cultivation contracts for the 2008 tobacco harvest have already been concluded, the committee on agriculture considers that acceptance of this proposal could generate a large number of legal actions and litigation which would ultimately result in serious damage only to agricultural producers. the committee on agriculture considers that the extension of the withholding until the 2012 marketing year and the increase in the rate of withholding in favour of the fund to 6% make it possible to provide sufficient financial resources for the european tobacco fund until the year 2013 and calls on the commission to draw up a multiannual programme which, thanks to the amendments introduced by the amendments tabled here, will be able to count on an amount of over eur 81 million without any burden for the union budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. this report has two objectives: strengthen tobacco control actions by extending the funding of the european tobacco fund and at the same time align the tobacco sector with the other cmos that will expire naturally with the 2012 campaign. we must not forget, however, that the fight against smoking must not be conducted by eliminating tobacco cultivation in europe, since the european union is the world's leading importer of raw tobacco and sources more than 75% of its needs from third countries, to the benefit of tobacco often produced without health control guarantees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco smoking in the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are certain facts which are not in dispute. the first: it is certain that total decoupling reduces production. the second: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco production in the community. the third element is the fact that we are putting hundreds and thousands of people on the hunger list without any concrete results. i therefore believe that tobacco aid should be used to explain to consumers the harmful effects of smoking - and from this point of view it is peaceful that the money comes from aid - and at the same time we must enable tobacco growers to quit, but slowly and with the necessary time from the entire sector. i therefore ask that the berlato report be voted on.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the speakers and the commissioner. i would remind you that, as regards the future of the european tobacco sector, the recent formal request to the commission, signed by the ministers of almost all the producing member states, including the countries which have opted for total decoupling and the new member states, is that the commission itself should present a proposal for a regulation to extend the current estimates of support for tobacco until the year 2013. i believe that this issue will necessarily have to be addressed in the context of the current debate on the health check of the cap. i conclude, mr president, by inviting my colleagues - who at first sight might seem less interested in a measure which concerns only a deduction on aid to farmers in the five old member states - who have kept aid partially coupled, to reflect on the fact that the use of these resources and the information work of the fund will continue to be used for the benefit of the health of all the citizens of the union. i also want to point out that we may be experiencing a fundamental misunderstanding: the report does not deal with the extension of aid to tobacco producers, and it does not decide on this, but simply votes on a report which talks about an extension of the financing of the community tobacco fund. as regards the extension of aid, it will be a decision to be taken in the future, but the subject of the report is quite different and concerns the extension of the community tobacco fund funding and not the extension of tobacco farmers' funding in the immediate and near future.
the agenda calls for the report by anne van lancker, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2007) 803 part v c6-0031/2008 2007/0300 cns)) (a6-0172/2008).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy has achieved the objective of increasing employment in europe, but not for everyone: the more difficult the path remains for young people, women and marginalized groups. and it hasn't improved the quality of the work. the social dimension of the lisbon strategy should be strengthened by supporting lifelong learning and the recognition of skills. social security systems providing income support and facilitating labour market mobility, with adequate social buffers, should be designed and work-life balance objectives should be achieved. the draft resolution goes in that direction and that is why we support it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
- the report by mrs elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on progress made in the european union on equal opportunities and non-discrimination (transposition of directives 2000/43/ec and 2000/78/ec) (2007/2202 (ini)) (a6-0159/2008).
i take this opportunity to greet, on behalf of all of you in parliament, the many groups of visitors in our stands. let us continue our discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the work of mrs lynne, this parliament is going to ask for a horizontal directive again and this is the ninth time, commissioner špidla, that parliament has asked for this. so in the face of a parliament which is making such a specific request for the ninth time, we would expect more clarity from the commission in this house, also because it corresponds to a commitment by president barroso, and we also believe in the work of the so-called impact assessment, which is being drawn up. the idea of opposing a horizontal directive is not understood by some of my colleagues in the group of the european people's party. the vice of wanting to divide society into corporations and corporate representation is rightly blamed on a certain left. but it seems to me that you want to do it here: disabled people do because it's more politically correct, other forms of discrimination: no, we wait. mrs oomen-ruijten is not here, but it is another vice of a certain left wing to say: but more than the laws, we need a change of mindset, and this time we hear it from our colleagues in the popular group. we are talking about individual rights and we are talking about the need not to play one corporation against another, one minority against another, but to ensure non-discrimination for 100% of citizens. that makes sense, that's what we're asking you! we do not need more measures for one category at a time and not for another, frankly, the citizens of the union do not need them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that i can make the best use of my time, mr president, as i am only accustomed to speaking for a minute. i have heard my dear friend philip bushill-matthews say that he is in the habit of agreeing with mrs elisabeth lynn and that this time she is the exception that proves the rule, but she is quite the opposite. i must tell my dear friend philip that we too are always in agreement, but this time, without betraying our traditional convergence in all decisions, i must tell you that you are faced with an exception, because i am absolutely in favour of this horizontal proposal for a directive, which has been sent to the commission by mrs lynn, and how could i disagree when i have been seeing for forty years now in italy, where i live and where i live, discrimination against citizens on the grounds of age, whereby the elderly are deprived of rights simply because they are elderly. i am referring above all to the fact that in italy there is a law that disabled people, if they are young, are entitled to a pension, but if they are elderly and have the same illnesses, they are not entitled to those pensions. i do not see how we can wait for years and years for there to be a legal possibility, as mr in't veld has well explained, of taking legal action to ensure that the rights which article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam confers on all citizens of the european union are respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the work of mr lynne. i must say that the debate on this report is taking place at a particular moment for europe and i would like the commission and you, mr commissioner, to be fully aware of the fact that they do not seem to be aware of it today. the theme is not just about progress on equal opportunities and non-discrimination in employment and working conditions, the central issue is the need for a horizontal directive on equal treatment covering all grounds of discrimination. there is a climate of intolerance and hostility that is rising in europe and that is already producing, let us think of immigration and the roma, processes of discrimination on ethnic grounds. woe to us if we close our eyes! hence the urgency of a comprehensive directive covering all discrimination in order to complete the package of anti-discrimination rules under article 13 of the treaty, but also to raise the level of cultural comparison in europe, a comparison which raises the quality and is convincing, a comparison which is felt to be of the utmost urgency. that is why i am asking you, commissioner, and the commission to show a little more political courage than has been absolutely lacking up to now!
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the debate has shown how important the issue of combating discrimination is. i would point out that the first line on which there was virtually complete agreement is the line of more effective application of the law in all the member states. i would like to point out, and this has also emerged from the debate, that the commission is very consistent in this direction and is initiating infringement proceedings against states which have not fully implemented. however, i would point out that the simple statistics do not tell the whole story, because the infringement procedures are included in this number, and they vary widely from technical and organizational to, for example, the extent of protection. in any case, i can say that all the countries with which we are in discussions are ready and their will to fully implement the anti-discrimination directives is unquestionable. the second question is the question of further progress in the laws. i have made it clear that the commission is in the final stages of deciding on the final procedure, that stage will be completed by june this year and we will put forward the appropriate proposals. the debate which has just taken place in parliament is undoubtedly one of the most important sources. let me also touch on two speeches that stood out from the general argument by bringing up an argument that is not quite the usual one. one of them was to quantify that the cost of training for anti-discrimination purposes in the federal republic of germany was eur 1.7 billion. i'm not disputing that number. i think it would be quite interesting to compare what the training costs are under, say, tax laws and find that similar transitional costs are common when laws change. so i don't think the purely financial argument is strong in that regard. the second question concerned the police problem in northern ireland. i can only say that, according to the information available to me, the irish police have taken positive action to deal with the problem the honourable member has mentioned. ladies and gentlemen, the time limit does not allow us to continue this discussion, which would certainly be profound and very interesting, and so let me say that we are now at a crucial stage of decision-making and that your discussion is part of that process.
, in writing. i express my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur on a subject which i consider to be of great importance for the development of fairer and more effective european anti-discrimination policies. the principle of non-discrimination is part of the core values which have always formed the basis of the european construction and must therefore be protected in practice so that european citizens, especially those belonging to the most disadvantaged categories such as the disabled, are effectively protected against any form of discrimination. non-discrimination is fundamental in employment, but it is necessary and desirable in every area of citizens' lives (such as education or social services) because it can greatly promote social inclusion and the development of the potential of every european citizen. i would like to conclude by expressing my support for the rapid adoption of a comprehensive and effective framework directive on non-discrimination, which will enable the member states to act together in this area and to adopt coherent and effective policies aimed at enabling citizens to feel truly protected by clear and comprehensive legislation at european and national level.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg on the return of cultural property which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state. i believe it is essential that the member states should be able to cooperate with each other in order to eliminate the conflicts between the national central authorities and to recognise the importance of protecting cultural heritage at european level. cultural heritage and works of art are the property of the citizens of the member states, who have every right to visit and admire them. there are scandalous cases and longstanding disputes between states concerning stolen works of art. i believe that action at community level is absolutely necessary to resolve these situations.
in writing. - i welcome the berlato report on the possibility of extending the financing of the community tobacco fund until 2012. the eu therefore feels the need to protect this important sector also because the total abolition of aid would cause a major damage to productivity, with consequent negative repercussions on the employment level of the regions concerned. in some areas tobacco accounts for up to 35% of agricultural exports and a possible drop in production would cause serious economic and social damage, especially where the local economy is already in difficulty. it is important to emphasize that the community funds allocated will cover all the initiatives, information and awareness campaigns on the harm caused by smoking. i hope therefore that the proposal to extend the tobacco advertising fund will be received positively by my colleagues, and that the interests of consumers will also be protected in this respect.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mr berlato, to whom i extend my congratulations. the report is a very balanced document and represents a rare and positive form of integration between the eu's agricultural and health policies. the report, which provides for an increase in the rate of deductions from aid paid to tobacco growers and provides additional resources of over eur 81 million for information campaigns on the harmful effects of smoking, succeeds in combining two cases in a somewhat sensitive area. on the other hand, the same report, without prejudice to union expenditure, extends partially coupled aid to producers, without discriminating against other agricultural products, and confirms the position already expressed by the strasbourg parliament in march 2004.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy, especially following the mid-term review, is the most important strategic commitment taken by the eu and is finally accompanied by concrete results in terms of growth and employment. in this context, mrs van lanker, while acknowledging the strategy's contribution to the creation of new jobs, questions quality and safety. it should be noted that although the number of unemployed is continuously falling, the number of workers with a fixed-term contract tends to rise, with obvious implications and consequences. the data show the need for monitoring of individual states to ensure that they address employment issues with an increasingly balanced approach based on flexicurity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. the rapporteur stresses that the lisbon agenda should take greater account of the common social objectives: the keyword of our strategy must be inclusion, no longer just growth and jobs.
in writing. the report by mr lehtinen proposes that the existing legislation on this subject should be improved, making it more flexible and free of regional contradictions, in order to better protect consumers. the eu has a duty to develop a genuine transnational economic policy aimed at defending the rights of consumers and safeguarding their health. the proposal in question - which i support - is therefore intended to create a harmonized legal framework which guarantees a sound integrated system for product safety and which succeeds in instilling real confidence in the goods on the european market in consumers, thereby generalising consumption growth. however, to achieve an effective consumer protection policy, the eu will need to invest a lot of energy in improving market surveillance, including by strengthening international cooperation, and in information and education campaigns for consumers themselves: the european market will not be able to fulfil its potential until the system gives the consumer the full assurance that his products are safe. this would enable europe to become a truly competitive market that satisfies, protects and empowers its consumers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation.
in writing. - europe, thanks in part to its strategic geographical location, must be an international example in maritime policy in the use of the economic potential of the sea, a very valuable source of renewable energy. the establishment of territorial centres of excellence, encouragement of support for university centres in coastal areas and an action plan driven by innovation, research and environmental protection of the seas would allow a further step towards a real eco-sustainable use of marine resources. the report also suggests that the action plan should make a significant contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through the use of fair emission trading systems, consolidating research efforts in the use of the seas as a source of renewable energy and introducing equal treatment for tax purposes of electricity and marine fuels. this would allow for an incentive for ships to use electricity from onshore electricity grids when docking. finally, the proposal for coordination between european maritime surveillance agencies would be able to weaken and prevent attacks on european vessels and at the same time counter illegal activities such as smuggling, drug trafficking and human trafficking, making international waters in fact much safer.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mr willi piecvk on an integrated maritime policy for the european union. i agree that an integrated maritime policy is necessary not only because the sea is one of the most important economic and trade resources for the european union and therefore needs to be protected, but also because effective and sustainable synergy between member states means better management and development. i believe it is essential, among other things, that maritime traffic be regulated and improved in line with the objectives of combating climate change and that the marine resource also be given attention as a potential source of clean and alternative energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr mathieu grosch's proposals are aimed at the uniform and strict application of the provisions for road transport, which i support. i agree that conditions must be laid down for access to these activities and that the supervision of the competent authorities must be strengthened by means of a single system of documentary recognition and also sanctions and that therefore an authorization of the states through which the services pass is necessary. i would just like to add, in view of the excellent work done by the honourable members, that in my view it is not possible to reduce the time needed for international cabotage if there are no conditions of genuine and concrete parity in the establishment of rules which will in any case protect against dumping, which in many cases ends up by favouring some operators over others. that is why i think the 2014 deadline is appropriate and perhaps even worth extending.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission strongly condemns all forms of violence against the roma and calls on the authorities of all member states to guarantee the personal safety of all persons on their territory. the events of last week in ponticelli are not an isolated case. racist violence, fuelled by political populism, hate speech and media hype, is a phenomenon that can be observed in many member states. the commission categorically rejects any stigmatisation or assimilation of roma as criminals. the authorities of the member states must not only refrain from such conduct but also set an example in the fight against racism and xenophobia. they have an obligation to investigate racist attacks and to punish those who incite or carry them out. i would like to emphasize one thing. the very meaning of the european union is to overcome what has characterized the history of europe for centuries: racial hatred, pogroms, destruction by fire. europe promotes the right of every man, woman and child to live free from persecution and discrimination. it embodies social solidarity, democracy and the rule of law, as well as respect for all people of different origins, religions, colours and lifestyles. we must not turn a blind eye to the real problems facing the roma in italy and other countries. everyone can see the extreme poverty, social exclusion, intermittent unemployment and low education levels that they suffer. this situation leads to human suffering and social tensions. it pushes roma to the margins of society. this loss of talent and potential is a cruel loss for the roma and a loss for europe. why is this? the roma are no less intelligent than the majority. nor are they beggars or born criminals. what can we do to change this? let us be honest about what the commission can do and what the governments of the member states must do. as the european council conclusions of december 2007, which your parliament welcomed, rightly emphasised, member states and the union must do everything possible to improve the inclusion of roma. with regard to the free movement of citizens within the european union, directive 2004/38 is based on well-established principles of union law. many of these arrangements have been in place for decades. the directive also incorporates the case law of the court of justice on these issues. following romania's accession to the european union, romanians enjoy the same freedom of movement as other union citizens. romanians are no longer immigrants from third countries. romanians are citizens of the union. they may in no case be treated less favourably than other citizens of the union. and the commission will make sure that their rights are respected. the directive allows member states to refuse the right of residence in the territory of inactive union citizens who do not have sufficient resources in order not to become a burden on their social assistance system. the assessment of this resource condition cannot be automatic, but must take account of the individual's personal behaviour. the rules on free movement are not made to benefit criminals. the directive allows the exclusion of persons whose behaviour represents a real, present and sufficiently serious threat to the fundamental interests of society. the fight against crime must be conducted in full respect of the rule of law. a decision to exclude may only be taken on a case-by-case basis and the procedural guarantees and substantive conditions must be respected. in the case of immediate exclusion, the urgency shall be duly justified. the exclusion of citizens of the union is an extreme measure. this is a limitation of a fundamental freedom of the treaty. the essential aspects of roma inclusion in society such as education, employment, social inclusion, public health, infrastructure improvement and housing are primarily the responsibility of the member states. the european union is nevertheless ready to assume its role as coordinator, supporter and facilitator of national policies. by learning from each other about peer pressure, we can achieve results. in the area where the european union clearly has competence, the fight against discrimination, i am committed to enforcing community legislation. directive 2000/43 is an important instrument with a wide material scope. however, its implementation at national level must be complemented by awareness-raising initiatives focusing on rights and obligations. the active follow-up of complaints by equality bodies and the full involvement of civil society in this monitoring process are prerequisites for any improvement in the situation. the events of the past week in italy call for a concerted effort on our part. our fellow roma citizens need our solidarity to break the vicious circle of exclusion and violence fuelled by despair. i take the outbreak of violence as a cry for help. as politicians, it is our duty to offer every individual prospects for a lasting solution to these problems. social exclusion can be tackled through targeted, tailor-made programmes supported by the european structural funds, in particular the european social fund. this programme can improve the living conditions of the entire population and, therefore, of minorities as well as the majority. in response to the call of the european council and the european parliament, we are currently examining the community instruments and policies that can be implemented to promote roma inclusion. i would like to invite the italian government and the governments of the other member states to discuss with us the results of this exercise and to look at the lessons that can be drawn from it. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is not the place for polemics against this or that government, it is the place where we discuss, bring to light and seek common solutions to issues that concern and disturb europeans and what is happening in italy worries many europeans. there are events of very different importance and severity: attacks on roma, the degradation and poverty of entire areas controlled by organized crime, where italians and migrants compete for nothing, the tragic waste crisis, and the latest incredible statements on the verge of homophobia by our new and really beautiful italian minister for equal opportunities. so, without any fruitless debate, let us stick to the facts and see what can be done to help and improve the situation and not to poison it further. one thing we must not do is deny reality. why are we here to discuss the situation of roma in europe and italy? because the roma are the most discriminated minority in europe and this parliament has been dealing with this for a long time. we are not bigots, but there have been instances of extreme violence, intolerance and racism, which we must call out for what they are if we are to begin to solve them. i repeat, we are not cheap. legality is at the heart of the solution we all seek: the rules, all the rules! rules that prohibit theft and occupation of public land, that force children to beg or women into slavery, but also rules that prohibit discrimination, the hunting down of poor people and keeping people without rights for decades who no longer know what nationality they are and remain nomads not by choice, but because of the constant flight, the only thing left is a life in the lurch. because, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality of many roma in italy and in europe! i would like to thank commissioner špidla, mr president, for his words, because he has courageously clarified some of the points we have always supported with regard to directive 38 and some of the misinterpretations of our government. i hope that this work of clarity will also continue our support.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the serious economic, energy and security situation of all the citizens of the union should perhaps have led this parliament to take responsible action to try to control the harmonized fear that seems to be creeping up in all the countries of the union. yesterday, however, he chose a different path, a partisan decision, perhaps just to make a media impact. it is clear that this is not a political but a partisan debate, since this is a debate without a resolution, and that is saying a lot! we share the pope's words: solidarity and generosity! and for solidarity to exist, the law must be respected! the italian generosity is well known, while other countries shot at non-eu citizens, while other countries did not allow ships with refugees to dock or let people drown at sea, attacked by fishing gear or wreckage, italy has always welcomed non-eu citizens and eu citizens with great care and generosity. of course, there have been atrocities that must be condemned and that the present government has condemned. but we wonder why the situation of the roma in italy was not followed up by mr mohácsi last year, five months ago, a year and a half ago? why is this parliament talking about it today, five weeks before the vote, and not clearly addressing this issue when the urgency was clear? no, mr schulz, if the title had been 'the roma in europe' we might have thought that this was a common problem. this is a partisan problem, and political solutions are needed.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. we are facing serious political and news events! there are directives and pronouncements of the european parliament which must apply to everyone, including italy! we say this to the present government, whose initial actions and intentions worry us very much and scandalize us, and we have said this to the previous government. the fight against discrimination and the commitment to the integration of the roma are sanctioned by parliamentary votes. mobility and residence rights are pillars of european citizenship. europe must help to achieve its aims. the right to citizenship of the roma must also be recognised as a european minority which was persecuted by nazism. finally, i consider what is happening very serious: there is a political use of fear, for example, of roma phobia, in order to win electoral consensus, the vocations of fear as a basis for capturing votes. this is a murder of politics and democracy, a poisoning of coexistence and a destruction of the civilization that europe is called upon to promote. this discussion must produce concrete facts: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that the spanish socialists' repeated accusations against italy and its sovereign right to internal security come from those who rigidly administer coastal controls, from those who are fresh from the ceuta and melilla affair, from those who treat catalan and basque independence by equating political polemics with terrorism. do spanish and european socialists know how generous italy is to the roma? do they know how much they receive in terms of social assistance, with financial support, education and health care that italian citizens do not have? do they also know how much of the social alarm crimes are attributable to the so-called nomads? i would like to ask commissioner špidla: who protects, for example, children who beg, sell roses, clean car windows at traffic lights in italian cities, exploited children whose genius is often completely unknown? why not, for example, take action to check the dna of all these children, with the dual purpose of protecting the child and verifying parental ties? there is a precedent in argentina for the children of the disappeared, if i am not mistaken. there are no roma camps in italy, in my view, as there are in romania, as there are in all the other countries of the european union, mr špidla. in fact, in order to enable the roma and so on to express their identity better, to protect it and to be able to govern themselves better, i propose that the european union should promote the creation of a roma state, perhaps in an area of eastern europe, since a large part of the roma come from that area. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is certainly not the right time on this subject. we were told that the italian government was not the accused party, but in fact in the speeches i heard it was mentioned a lot, right-wing populist politics were mentioned. mr mohácsi said that the story of the six-month-old child in naples was not true. mrs frassoni has taken it out on the minister for equal opportunities. a government that has been sworn in for only six days is under fierce accusation by ministers of the spanish government for facts which, if seen at home, are certainly much more serious and is under accusation today for a problem. i think i would have believed much more, i do not think so, i am convinced, if the commissioner had spoken of solidarity for citizens in general and not just for a part of them. we are, i am in favour of the solidarity issue for all, but i believe that a government has a duty to guarantee the security of all citizens and not of any one in particular; it has a duty to ensure that all children can live under the same conditions, not just one. the commission has a duty to ensure integration by being diligent and not offering and offering itself as a receptacle, in some cases, for problems of delinquency and thus defending everyone as a whole. mr. president, you've been so generous, let me complete the concept. i believe that a government cannot and should not be put under indictment, a government which has had a large majority as never before in the history of italy. i believe that this subject, which is very delicate, very important, and which deserves to be shared, should be tackled not in a political way but in a serious, very serious way, and the undersigned has always supported the argument that this parliament, the european union, once and for all, should stop playing games, but should make a serious european integration policy, not attacking individual governments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner špidla has rightly said that the attacks on the roma camps in rome and naples in recent days are very serious incidents which must be prevented by ensuring that there are decisive responses which are neither the discharge of responsibility on mother-in-law europe, nor the sending of letters of apology, nor the discriminatory and derogatory language, i will apologize to my colleague mr romagnoli whom we have just heard. these types of responses risk fuelling a dangerous climate that can lead to violence and racism. this debate, dear zappalà, is not a trial of italy or its government: the commissioner has given a clear and cooperative message! we expect the italian government to give convincing and concrete answers, consistent with the two basic demands: integration and security; the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to find a solution to the problems of the third world. today some newspapers have headlines like 'europe is suing italy' or 'comrade schulz, berlusconi's enemy, against italy', which are ridiculous. i would like to say that italy, a country esteemed and loved throughout the world for its values of civilization, is the country that is asking europe to play its part in strengthening security and promoting integration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply say this: i am afraid that in the face of the gravity of the facts which everyone can feel - i mean everyone here - there is an attitude and an ignorance of the italian and european reality which scares me. it is always the fault of others and so i want to say that i claim the duty and the right to blame ourselves. in rome, in naples, we have ruled for 15 years! in rome, in naples and throughout italy, a shameful television campaign has developed, from 10 to 24% of the television news has gone to reporting crimes, creating a psychosis of fear. madam president, i just want to say that where there is no democracy, there is no peace for the roma, but neither for the italians. italy is not a democracy, it is not a state of law. we can fight on this basis, we can hope, otherwise with the cheap good conscience of too many of us, no!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too want to clear the air of any misunderstanding. any act of violence and discrimination must be condemned in no uncertain terms, but we must face reality, avoiding above all hypocrisy or, even worse, political exploitation. i would like to draw a pitiful veil over the attempt made by many in this house today to blame berlusconi for the plight of the roma in italy these days. perhaps veltroni and bassolino know more about responsibility, especially in relation to the degradation in the abusive roma camps. i would like to ask you all to make the responsible and serious effort which is required of us today, after so many delays and unsuccessful appeals, to find a solution. we must do more than that, we must stand by the roma living in camps, in absolutely inhuman and unacceptable conditions, but also by the mother whose daughter was kidnapped and by the family of mrs reggiani, who was raped and murdered a little less than a year ago, a case which this parliament has unfortunately dealt with. our proposals have been clear and repeated for years, and have been adopted in the european parliament's latest resolution on the roma strategy and in the european strategy on the rights of minors. first of all: to solve the problem of roma camps, where there is no hygiene or safety; second: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child labour. thirdly: combating the drop-out rate of up to 75% of roma children in some member states; fourthly: the commission is also proposing to make the best use of the community funds available for all roma citizens who are working, who want to integrate and who send their children to school, but at the same time it is necessary to isolate and repatriate people who are habitual offenders. i would like to conclude by appealing first of all to the european union, since the problem affects all the member states, as the council of europe has recently pointed out.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner špidla, i am very concerned about the recent accidents in italy. there is a climate of witch-hunting against romanian and roma citizens with punitive expeditions and burning of nomadic camps. the italian government is engaged in an obsessive campaign on security, calling into question europe, the schengen treaty and free movement within the eu. the security question must be brought back to the level of legal civilization, which cannot be reduced to emergency logic. the rule of law requires that criminal liability be individual and not attributable to collective categories. to deviate from this principle is a dangerous precedent which leads to the criminalisation of entire ethnic groups. the demand for security is legitimate, but we cannot fall into the instrumentalization created to fuel hatred and xenophobia for political ends. instead of brandishing the crime of illegal immigration, the italian government should use eu funds for integration policies more effectively. in short, the debate on the expulsion of roma must be brought back into the proper european context, to reiterate that existing laws must be applied, without calling into question the freedom of movement of community citizens, which is an inalienable right of european citizenship.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this is an indictment of a government which for two years has allowed hundreds of thousands of people to enter and at the same time has allowed these people to live in a state of incredible degradation, creating a new sub-proletariat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that italy has no chance of tackling this problem, given the very serious problems - think of waste, think of work, think of the housing problem! the roma problem is an insurmountable problem, since the camps of so-called solidarity are the camps and this is demonstrated by yesterday's broadcast of door to door which are theoretically legal, but where there is constant abuse of children and the hygiene and sanitation situations are absolutely terrible. i think the only thing italy can do and europe should support italy at this juncture is: 1) to review the schengen treaty for at least six months as regards italy, since this assembly recognises that there is an emergency roma problem in italy, hence suspension of the schengen treaty; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. 3) negotiate with romania, bosnia, macedonia and serbia, i.e. both community and non-community countries, the human repatriation of the roma in the country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to give martin schulz my confidence when he says that he wants to deal constructively with the problem of reception, but also with the essential rules which the roma, like everyone else, must observe in order to participate in the project of coexistence which we call the european union. the silent murder of the rights and dignity of these people, but also of helpless italian citizens caught up in a spiral of violence over the last eighteen months, is an example of the contradiction of those governments and institutions which, on the one hand, preach understanding and, on the other, tolerate human beings living among worms and mice, stealing, committing violence, killing, and the mob trying to take justice for themselves! if we are really concerned about finding a solution, dear friends and dear schulz, let us recognize not only that the prodi government in italy has also failed, but that people on the left, like those on the right, have difficulty accepting the other! this will make it easier for us to take on a problem which we will otherwise make a hostage of an old way of doing politics and which will need to evoke the monster berlusconi in order to feel absolved of its mistakes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the people of our country want the government to deal with the crime crisis, including that of the roma, without any kind of goodwill, but with realism. the defence of human rights, of course, had to be done in ceuta, but instead there was the omertal silence of the socialist international, comrade schluz, or not? we must also defend, above all, honest citizens against the lawlessness of all, including the roma! i will personally fight for our government to make it a criminal offence in our country for roma families to form gangs to commit theft and robbery, and perhaps even more serious crimes. xenophobic violence does not belong to our people, least of all to the citizens of campania and naples, it belongs to the camorra, which we must fight! the people are asking for security, which they know very well does not exclude humanitarian and solidarity measures. but first, safety, which is an equally important duty to ensure! the commission's bluster is not convincing: the citizens of our country and of europe are asking for security from uncontrolled immigration and from the invasion of those who do not emigrate for work, and very often it is criminals who emigrate and not immigrants who commit crime!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult situation of public order and the natural reaction of the people to the numerous incidents of violence which have alarmed public opinion in my country have led the italian government to adopt new security measures. i think that the attempt by those who call the rules contained in the security package which is being approved by the italian council of ministers discriminatory, racist and outside the community directives must be firmly rejected. strict provisions on rent without a legal contract, expulsion of illegal immigrants and increased penalties for those who commit offences considered to be of social concern are fully in line with european rules. italy is and will remain a welcoming country, which is pursuing a new policy of integration, but is no longer prepared to tolerate the presence of illegal immigrants. all community and non-community citizens are welcome as long as they respect the rules and norms of civil society. the european union and the 27 member states will therefore have to do their part, and we too must ensure that civil rights are respected throughout europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me get to the facts. the facts tell us that the berlusconi government is reintroducing the concept of race into the legal framework of our country and is rapidly taking italy to the periphery of the european union, systematically violating the fundamental principles on which directive 38 of the european union is built, first of all the right of free movement of persons as a fundamental principle. i will mention only two of the consequences: the first was in naples a few days ago, when the camorra was given the task, as a substitute, of maintaining public order and displacing with molotov cocktails those who were in the roma camps in that city. the second consequence is conveyed to us by mr romagnoli, who brings out a proposal which can hardly be called the author's. it is a proposal that has no originality: to reconstruct, build or imagine a state in which to lock up and confine all roma citizens. i remember that this proposal - gypsies and jews - was made by goebbels in the 1930s in nazi germany, then the war broke out and the gypsies and jews were replaced by crematoria. that is the spirit of the proposal we have received today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i had planned to speak one time, and i shall speak the second time after hearing mr fava, of course. mr president, i believe from what i have just heard in this house - and i am sorry, i am very sorry - that the motives which have led to this debate are clearly motivated by a persecutory, accusatory and punitive intention against a member state and a government which was elected by a very large majority. but, alas, for some it is the fault of not being a left government. it is not our fault, it is not our fault that in italy the roma are almost exclusively involved in robberies, thefts, kidnappings of minors, and abusive solicitation! this is the image of the roma in italy, despite our reluctance. i'm still looking, if anyone knows, for a roma in italy with a regular job, who pays taxes regularly. don't accuse me of racism, be serious, i only defend honest europeans shut up and go back to your tribe, go back to your tribe president, i was interrupted don't accuse me of racism and be serious. i only defend honest europeans and also honest roma. every state must give priority to the safety of its citizens, otherwise citizens feel justified in taking justice into their own hands. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that i would like the spanish governments and the european parliament to be silent and look a little closer at home.
i would ask you, mr la russa and also mr pannella, we are not in the italian parliament, i would ask you to behave seriously and stop with those gestures, you understand! please close the door, or i'll call the shopkeepers!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, having listened carefully to the whole debate, i would like to make a final judgment. the debate was largely not up to the standards of the commissioner's report and of the call made by mr schulz not to take account of specific problems or of the exploitation of a country - italy in particular - but to take account of a general problem on which i think we can all agree, namely, welcome and solidarity for those who enter the various countries, for the roma who certainly have a particular problem, together with security and legality, because security and legality confirm the welcome and solidarity that must be given. we should have answered the commissioner, who asks: what can the commission do? i think that mr barón crespo said it last, and i think that the commission, with the support of parliament, can give some indications: the european directives when they are accepted. as for the problem of waste, as for the problem of non-community and community citizens, it is a directive which can lead to a solution. but when parliament, the commission and the council, in their solidarity, do not exploit or take advantage of a polemic which is entirely italian and which is really exploitative, since the government has been in office for a few hours, a few days. if, on the other hand, solidarity on the whole - as it has come out and as the commissioner has said - is brought to the attention of the whole parliament, i believe that perhaps we can have some solutions and some results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a political and media campaign to criminalize migrants and roma in italy, and the true nature of the italian government has been expressed here in this house by several members of parliament. i am thinking of mr fiore, mr borghezio and mr la russa, who, as we have all heard, have explicitly said that schengen must be suspended, that the crime of illegal immigration must be introduced and that all roma must be expelled. it's the equation between roma and criminals. this is the true soul of this government and the campaign is evident from the fact that the government has announced the establishment of special commissioners on the roma. the roma are being rounded up, instead of arresting those who set fire to roma camps in italy. the statements of this kind which we have heard here are statements often made by various ministers of the italian government. that is why, mr muscardini, we are having this debate today and have not had it before. there is only one truth to be told and i conclude on this: there are 200,000 roma in italy, of which 80,000 are italian, of the remaining 120,000 50,000 were born in italy. it is probably necessary to give citizenship and that would solve a large part of the roma problem in italy.
the debate is closed. i am very grateful to the commissioner for his reply, and i hope that our problem will be dealt with with serenity, humanity and dignity, as our president poettering often says. mr romagnoli, i have not forgotten you. you have made a request under article 145, which is a personal matter, so after the debate, that is now, you have the floor. i'd ask her in a minute. i remind you that rule 145 says that you must not go into the substance of the debate, but simply answer if there is a personal matter or statements that you believe you have not made and that have been attributed to you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this should be the place for free and polite discussion, but it is not if you tolerate bad words and some offense that may have been gratuitous. i have always condemned and continue to condemn all forms of violence and discrimination, at any time and in any way, against individuals and communities; i believe that the right of self-determination of peoples, if we recognize it for the palestinians, must also apply to others, and that is why i was speaking about the roma. i'm sorry that someone has used my words as an instrument. i regret being liquidated with securities, as some colleagues have done, which do not belong to me at all, as those who know me well know. no one is questioning human rights, i am not racist or xenophobic, but i stand firm, ladies and gentlemen, on the right to social order which we should all be defending here. and if you allow more, the full sovereignty of italy.
there was a request, the secretariat is checking, because it was not said what kind of request. there is no resolution and no vote.
we have these five minutes, as decided by the conference of presidents, and these are also the time limits, but i will also take note of your notes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally join all the members who have expressed their thanks and appreciation for the work of our rapporteur, karl-heinz florenz. i would like to add, in a very informal way, a thank you to all the members and political groups who are working and have worked very hard in this year of commitment by the special committee on climate change, in which - i must tell the truth - a very strong climate of unity has been achieved, a very strong conviction that beyond marginal areas of dissent it is good to be there. i am sure that all the material we have already collected and are collecting for the final report will be summed up and will enable us to leave a good legacy for the future parliament to develop its future work with a truly integrated approach, as is necessary in this matter. today's is the first chapter, the one on the state of the art in scientific knowledge of the problem. let's face it, the ipcc panel is not a scientific current, it is a place in which, with years of work, all the scientific literature on the subject has been taken into account and a synthesis has been made, a verification has been carried out, reaching degrees of probability about the different areas, the different judgments, which very soon came close to 100%, which is unprecedented in the history of science. i think this is interesting also from a more general point of view, it could be taken a bit as a model to establish an intelligent relationship, so to speak, between scientific knowledge and political decision-making in the face of the extraordinary complexity of the problems of the contemporary world. climate change is here, it is happening fast, so we have to act very quickly, and as karl-heinz said, it is not only a problem but also an opportunity. it is precisely on the basis of this knowledge that the world political climate has changed in the space of a year, commissioner dimas, and not just global warming. the global political climate has also changed, and it's changed to bali, to a collective acknowledgement of the validity of the ipcc research, and it's changed in the last few months to some really interesting leadership shifts. part of our work has also been to make numerous visits to china, india, and recently to the united states, to washington, and we were able to grasp what the presidential candidates then, as you recalled, said very clearly, that there will be a different commitment from that country in the coming months, which is really to be hoped for in view of the international negotiations which are to be concluded in copenhagen in 2009. i agree with her on this point and we are producing results which were unimaginable only a year ago.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your continued presence. as a scientist i can only rejoice that the scientific framework is finally accepted and recognised even in high political representation venues such as this. as vice-chairman of the temporary committee on climate change, i am pleased with the first results of the joint work and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr florenz, my colleagues and mr sacconi. but i personally fear that all our goodwill will not be enough to solve the grave problems we face. i think above all of the catastrophic prospects that climate change projects on already very difficult problems such as poverty, public health, access to natural resources and, foremost among these, water, and i believe that once we have taken the first step on this journey of discovery into the phenomenon with the writing of this first report on the scientific evidence we should take on a mission impossible. to give hope, to provide workable plans for a future that is not just about conflict and inequality, to offer a vision where science can help us rebalance the imbalances that we as humans have created or helped to worsen. this is what we must say to our fellow citizens: we'll make it, and with it, we'll have made a leap of civilization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr florenz, very much for his good work and, above all, for the way in which he has put to good use the work of the committee on climate change, which has been so well led by mr guido sacconi, for a number of months. the key political point that i agree with in the florenz report is precisely the assumption that the ipcc, and therefore the un, and the guidelines of the bali conference are being implemented. look, this is not just a scientific point, but a point of democracy, that is a seat of world democracy. the issue before us is that if europe is to be credible and a driving force in the post-kyoto agreement, we must have our cards in order. the package of measures that has been defined must be adopted in good time and must be in line with the bali commitments, that is to say, it must be a package that respects the commitments, that is to say, it must be transparent, implemented and verified. it is essential to avoid the race to exceptions, to derogations which create a lack of credibility within europe and in relations with others. we must avoid the tricks of the member states and of business, that is, we must take it seriously!
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain on this resolution, particularly because of the way in which the kurdish question is not dealt with. in particular, i do not think that we can simply call turkey's military operations in northern iraq disproportionate, instead of saying that we are facing a clear violation of international law. the kurdish question cannot be reduced to a social issue. it is a political question first and foremost and we must make it absolutely clear to the government that it must open discussions with the local administrations of the kurdish region and with the dtp. we cannot ignore the fact that there is not the slightest mention of the luxembourg court's decision on the different placement of the pkk on the terrorist lists as is the case so far. we believe that many appeals have been made to turkey on the kurdish question, but that no substantial change has been noticed so far. that is why we abstained.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report, which gives a very accurate account of the current institutional, political and social situation in turkey. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has already made some efforts, but corruption is a real scourge, the cyprus question is still unresolved, and relations with armenia are in the open sea. there is the kurdish issue, violence against women is still a painful note and the same goes for forced marriages and honour killings. the situation of birth registration and low levels of schooling are also of concern. this list is certainly not encouraging and it illustrates a very problematic situation which parliament will have to continue to monitor with great care and intransigence. no concessions can be made on freedom and fundamental rights ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
president, ladies and gentlemen, only strong geopolitical and geoeconomic interests, and certainly not the interest and the will of our peoples, are behind turkey's entry into europe. this report seems to be an encyclopedia of the reasons for the refusal to join the european union of a country which is becoming more and more islamized, where the muftis publicly preach that women who do not wear the veil are all satan worshipers. the turkish constitution is a flowery set of rules that are upheld and that are against the human rights that we have consistently advocated. the report is unfortunately generic in its basic questions: cyprus, the armenian genocide and the kurdish question. and then, as this islamic country enters europe, which even forbids the use of alcohol, these rules will be imposed on our people too, including those of glorious celtic origin, from the irish to the bretons to us padanians, who proudly love our wine and our beer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked the president to speak for a moment after the nassauer report on the european parliament's proposal on criminal law protections was adopted. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur in particular, because this is a very important measure. there was a great deal of discussion in the committee and we reached a very intelligent and very high compromise, also thanks to the cooperation of mrs monica frassoni. i feel the need to emphasize this particular work that the committee has done and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr nassauer, in particular.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the klaus-heiner lehne report on 'simplifying the corporate environment' because i am convinced of the need for 'further' reforms in the areas of company law, accounting and budgetary control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of employees are applied. we must avoid that it imposes excessive and unnecessary bureaucratic obligations by avoiding overlapping burdens already due, linked to national regulation. these reforms should aim to make the applicable legislation easier to read and to reduce bureaucratic and administrative burdens, especially in accounting matters. the simplification will be of great benefit to businesses and, above all, to smes which do not normally have large legal and accounting offices. i am convinced that a system that is understandable and easy to apply will first of all promote respect for the law. at the same time, clear and easily identifiable provisions help to create a positive and active economic environment. i believe that the work of the committee responsible and of the rapporteur, mr lehne, has made a fair compromise between the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity and the creation of a harmonised pathway between member states engaged in a joint effort to simplify corporate governance at european level. we must avoid creating bureaucratic obstacles that stifle dynamism and entrepreneurship.
in writing. − the latest intergovernmental conference on climate change and the various conferences under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) have shown that man-made greenhouse gases are the cause of climate change and that the rise in global temperature to + 2°c above pre-industrial levels must be stopped. i therefore agree with the committee on climate change and the rapporteur in calling for more stringent action and more studies on the effects of climate change, monitoring phenomena such as desertification, glacier melting, changes in the marine environment, catastrophic atmospheric events, etc. the latest reports from the european environment agency indicate that much more needs to be done to meet the kyoto targets and the additional reduction targets set by the eu council in march 2007. in the light of the energy and climate package, the communication on limiting climate change to 2°c, i believe, however, that further measures can be taken to improve 'energy efficiency' which would allow for significant savings in greenhouse gas emissions. this is also done through a labelling system which indicates the environmental footprint in relation to the greenhouse gas parameter. i believe that individuals, european citizens and people in third countries, should be more directly involved in promoting awareness and active participation in the fight against climate change through small energy saving actions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the few seconds i have, i would like to take to the house the cry of alarm i hear from the volunteers of the international organisation save the children, who are telling us of the imminent risk of a tragedy in tragedy. rescuers report that in the swampy area at the mouth of the irrawaddy there are over 30,000 starving children, children who survived the fury of cyclone nargis and often their parents, who are now bent over by hunger and thirst, consumed by dysentery and exhausted by rain and cold. in this context, commissioner, the policy of closing off aid to the than shwe regime and its star-crossed collaborators is delusional. there's no time to lose! with the malnutrition already present, the scarcity of clean water, the looming disease and the lack of aid, those kids won't survive long: we must either act now or we will be held responsible for not doing enough!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the mission described by commissioner michel, whom i thank for his ruthless sincerity, makes us realize that it is useful at this moment to focus on the doctrine of humanitarian intervention in order to improve relations not so much with the burmese administration as with the chinese administration, which is now showing a very different sensitivity in the light of the grave mourning and disasters that have also occurred in their country. focusing on the relationship with the chinese can serve to open up spaces for humanitarian intervention that can go from parachuting aid directly into the irrawaddy area directly creating a no-fly zone, to opening up a real humanitarian corridor. a question also to the council: the european union had appointed a representative for burma, always thanking commissioner michel for his dedication and for going, as he said, into a zone of frustration. what's it for?
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the natural disaster in china.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda is as follows: oral question (o-0029/2008/rev) by elly de groen-kouwenhoven, angelika beer and carolina lucas, on behalf of the green group, luisa morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, on behalf of the alde group, ana maria gomes, on behalf of the pse group, ģirts valdis kristovskis, on behalf of the uen group, karl von wogau and stefano zappalà, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to the council the european parliament has also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the nuclear weapons programme, and to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the nuclear weapons programme. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity.
mr kristovskis, i did not interrupt you because your testimony as minister of latvia was extremely important, but i would like to point out that it was far ahead of its time.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said on this subject in the past and unfortunately i think that much more will have to be said before a final solution is found. there are provisions in some member states which prohibit the manufacture and any commercial or military use of this type of ammunition. there are various requests from this parliament, there are photographic documents and testimonies, there are good reasons to believe that italian soldiers have died from exposure to these types of weapons. there is a un resolution which shows a general concern, there are various calls for in-depth studies on the subject. there is a precautionary principle which, in accordance with european union law, should lead to a general moratorium at least until certain scientific data are available. however, none of this has so far produced the desired result. depleted uranium continues to be used in theatres of war, both in rural and urban areas. it is clear that the chemical material generally penetrates through the soil into both aquifers and agricultural products and therefore it is clear that the particles of depleted uranium in contact with the soil disperse into the subsurface, polluting groundwater and agricultural products, with the obvious consequence of the spread of induced diseases in the populations exposed to them and, albeit in a reduced form, throughout the planet through the water cycle and the elements, in an ever-widening global market system. it is true that there are no reliable studies to prove this danger yet, but it is undeniable that the parameters we know today do not exclude the existence of the risk. this consideration alone should compel advanced democracies to examine the matter and take a decision. the european union in particular cannot, in my view, continue to do nothing. the union has specific duties towards its member states, it has specific duties towards the rest of the world, it has specific duties towards its citizens. the union has economic resources to draw on and no limitation in terms of available science and laboratories. the failure to do so is certainly a matter of will and not of lack of resources and means. it is clear from all this that the council and the commission cannot fail to ensure that their citizens, whether civilian or military, are not sent to areas of the world where these types of munitions are and have been used, but they cannot fail to take all possible steps to reconcile their production and use at an early stage and, following scientific findings, to prepare for their total prohibition and final destruction. this is what we are asking for, hoping that the council and the commission will show their sense of responsibility in practice, since this is not a political issue, but a public health issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of depleted uranium for military purposes is contrary to international law, and there is overwhelming evidence of its real toxicity to both man and the environment. i agree that the european security strategy must take full account of the problem and i believe that the ban on these weapons within the union states should be total and absolute. both questions propose assessments and raise shared problems, based on a large number of cases which have been documented. i take this opportunity to recall the case of the italian soldiers who are still fighting in the balkans, who are still waiting for just compensation and whom i fear they will never see. it is a strong and decisive signal to the union, at least for the future, that it is not in a position to remedy the damage of the past by preventing the manufacture, storage and marketing of such weapons within the union.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider jana hybášková's reference to real politik to be inappropriate and even rather cynical. there can be no negligence or carelessness or state secrets in the health of citizens. the use of uranium weapons has devastating and irreparable consequences. uranium bullets when they explode radiate fine dust and pollutants, pollute air, soil and water, penetrate the respiratory system, increase the likelihood of cancer, leukemia and malformations. those who use them are in clear violation of international humanitarian law. in italy alone, since the 1991 gulf war, the association that assists the families of victims enlisted in the armed forces has calculated 50 deaths. the defense minister recently said 77 people were killed and the number of sick people ranges from hundreds to about 2,000. more than 2,000 tonnes of depleted uranium were used from 1991 to 2003. 70% of iraq's territory is contaminated and to this day the horrific human cost of depleted uranium is not known with certainty. i saw in iraq, in the hospital in basra, i saw the deformed bodies of children, i saw the devastation of their little bodies. thousands of unnamed civilians continued to live and die in the radiation-contaminated territories of iraq, afghanistan, kosovo, bosnia and somalia, unaware of their fate. since 2001, we in the european parliament have been calling for a moratorium. we reaffirmed this in 2006 with the adoption of the resolution on chemical and conventional inhumane weapons. in 2007, the overwhelmingly voted un resolution urged the united nations to examine the health damage. six countries voted against: the usa and israel, and unfortunately also some member states of the european union: france, england, the czech republic and the netherlands. instead, they should have followed the example of belgium, which was the first in the world to ban depleted uranium completely in march 2007 because of its toxicity. with other colleagues - and i am pleased to see all the political forces - i wanted this debate very much, because it is essential to act against violations of international, humanitarian and environmental law. ensure that military hierarchies, states and the war industry assume their full responsibilities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore reiterate the demands contained in our resolution, in particular that maximum transparency be ensured by indicating contaminated areas and above all that an immediate moratorium be pursued in order to achieve in a short time the total ban on depleted uranium weapons, as well as cluster bombs which continue to claim victims as in lebanon, where the israeli army in the last hours before its withdrawal has dropped more than a million cluster bombs on villages and homes. action and thanks to the council and the commission for their response and for what they will do to make possible, albeit with the limitations mentioned by commissioner michel, the possibility of seeing ourselves free from uranium weapons and also from cluster bombs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the damage caused by the use of depleted uranium is so great that it would be very inappropriate to call it collateral damage. the damage is spread in successive waves to the enemy soldiers affected and to the same soldiers who use it: the gulf syndrome, the balkan syndrome. then, for decades to come, it is the civilian populations living in theatres of war who inhale it, ingest it, contaminate water tables and the food chain, and suffer the radiation. the most serious damage from exposure to heavy metal radiation is borne by children, growing bodies and especially those in the womb. the exponential increase in genetic malformations and childhood cancers in areas affected by uranium use is evidence of this. a recent bbc study showed that within 24 hours of the massive bombing of the balkans, atmospheric radioactivity detection points in northern england were at an all-time high. it is therefore proposed not only to ban depleted uranium but also to prosecute for war crimes those who use it, knowing and knowing the consequences, and those who will do so when a ban is imposed.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you are well aware that in a few days, exactly ten days, the first phase of reach application will begin - that of the pre-registration of substances - and it was also in view of this solemn moment that, as you are well aware, in the face of the implementing regulation of reach as regards the definition of tests, we were angry because one of the purposes of reach, which was indeed hard won in the entire legislative process and in the interinstitutional negotiations, has become precisely the promotion of alternative systems to those of animal testing. when we saw this draft implementing regulation, in which a number of tests already validated by ecvam from a scientific point of view were not included because the regulatory procedure had not been advanced and because, on the other hand, some of them, exactly three out of five, were deferred to validation by the oecd, we were very angry. because it is right that reach is implemented on time, but it is also right that it starts on the right foot in respect of the spirit and the aims of this important regulation. in the meantime, as you know, we have had some talks and on 5 may parliament received a letter signed by commissioner dimas, also on his behalf and on behalf of the commissioner responsible for research, which gave interesting and compelling answers to these doubts and to our supposed opposition to this regulation. we must acknowledge that a serious path has been imagined to speed up, streamline and also make, as is necessary, more transparent these processes of validation of alternative systems. let's just say this debate we're having tonight is getting a little more formal. i am sure that you will confirm these commitments and therefore enable us to adopt tomorrow, in the form we have in the meantime amended, our resolution that by taking note of this commitment which i ask you to confirm, you will no longer be opposing that regulation but will be taking these commitments into account, while remaining firm in your demand that we proceed with sufficient urgency to verify these commitments and also as soon as possible to amend that regulation to include as soon as possible the alternative tests, which in the meantime will have been fully validated. i thank you, i think i have also saved some time and this allows us to speed up our work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to commend the european training foundation in turin for the valuable work it has done since 1994. the work of agencies and foundations is often seen as a cost factor. i am convinced that what our foundation is doing in turin is a very useful neighbourhood aid, whether in the balkans, whether in eastern europe or in north africa. this practical support by the etf to our partner countries in developing and establishing high-quality vocational education and training systems cannot be overestimated. so, thank you and congratulations to the people in charge there. i must openly criticise the council for its conduct during the negotiations, with the consensus in the first round, which was to increase the council to 27 and then not to understand that we as parliament also want to be represented on the executive board and finally to approve three experts, but without voting rights. this is simply an incomprehensible attitude on the part of the council! i can only repeat that the council presidency's tight and defensive attitude is incomprehensible to me. it is yet another proof of how much the governments of our member states are concerned about the value of parliament, the only democratically elected body of the union. i thank the rapporteur.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the recommendations contained in mr van hecke's excellent report, which i fully support, are certainly in the right direction. at the same time as we are discussing this report, the presentation of the new annual report by concord, the european confederation of development ngos, on the pledges of eu governments in the field of aid is taking place in brussels. the report analyses the progress of each member state and the resulting picture highlights the gaps and contradictions in our policies to fight poverty and make aid more effective. for example, as michel was telling me, it is known in the report that in 2007 the amount of aid from the 27 member states did not increase as it should have, but decreased. at the same time, the report shows that many of the problems of development policies remain: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the sector. we must be able to meet the commitments we have made at international level. we cannot disappoint the expectations of the people of the countries of the global south, but also of those in the countries of the so-called global north who are working so hard to ensure that injustice and poverty and the food crisis, as mr shapira said, are tackled with determination. i agree with commissioner michel: we need to move from rhetoric to action. i must also thank michel for his passion, his commitment and his strength. the 2008 accra and doha conferences can and must be a turning point and an extraordinary opportunity for the european union to demonstrate that it can live up to its responsibilities as the world's leading donor. it seems to me almost obvious that we must increase both the quantity and the quality of aid. the two concepts are not opposed. the need for greater efficiency cannot be used as an excuse for giving less money. at the same time, it is now clear to everyone that increasing the amount of funding alone is not enough. firstly, it is essential, as we all say, that there is an objective to combat poverty and not geopolitical and strategic objectives. trade, migration and security policies should be consistent, we always say, with development objectives. european cooperation must be inspired not only by our own interests but also by the real priorities of the countries of the south as identified by local governments, but also by parliaments and civil society, just as it is essential to increase the transparency and accountability of eu programmes. in this sense, our parliament should be able to exercise real democratic control and i welcome the invitation by louis michel to work intensively together to ensure that the eu countries keep their commitments. but some questions starting with the calls for proposals. the ngos wishing to participate in the commission's calls for proposals are faced with procedures which are too long and complex, which make their work very difficult and in fact exclude many small local associations. so why not ask these organizations directly how to streamline the procedures? that is why i have tabled an amendment which we should vote on today. there is also the issue of aid unbundling, which is dealt with in the van hecke report. progress has been made, but it is necessary to untie all aid completely as soon as possible, to prevent money from returning to the donor country instead of alleviating the poverty of the recipient country. finally, i would like to mention those countries which are still inflating their official development aid figures. in 2007, eu countries spent almost €8 billion, or 17% of all eu aid, in important but non-development sectors. debt cancellation, expenditure on refugees, grants for foreign students - that is why i call on you to support the amendments calling for these expenditure to be excluded from the calculation of official development aid. i too have high hopes for 2008 and for the commitments we have made to reverse this trend. i very much agree with commissioner michel when he talks about shared responsibilities between donors and countries where everyone has to do their part: rights and duties. this is our strength!
, on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment replaces paragraph 1 of the original text, which reads: 'welcomes the doha agreement reached by the parties on the election of general suleiman as president of the republic in the coming days, the creation of a new national unity government and the adoption of the election law; calls on the parties to fully implement this agreement; stresses the importance of the positive reaction given by the international community; congratulates the lebanese parties on the agreement and qatar and the arab league on their successful mediation.'
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. − the strategic drive to boost european competitiveness, proposed in the lisbon strategy and most recently reiterated at the november 2007 competitiveness council, has led the eu to step up its efforts to increase europe's innovation and growth potential compared to its global competitors. the key to a real impetus in research and development lies in smes which, driven by the struggle for survival in the market, are by their very nature inclined to innovate. however, sometimes access to research and development can be particularly costly from an economic and bureaucratic point of view. i therefore support this report, which stresses the need for the eu to promote the idea of 'small first' and to give particular attention to the creative and original potential of smes, which are still a driving force in the european economy. i believe that a policy to help small businesses must be based on subsidies and the necessary research aid: the 'best' programme has been successful in this respect, allowing the exchange of good practice between smes, the icp and the 7th framework programme. however, i also believe that a series of measures to facilitate business activity is essential, such as reducing barriers to the internal market, eliminating bureaucratic obstacles and encouraging banks to lend to smes.
in writing. - mr president, i would first like to thank the commission for having responded immediately to the emergency following the earthquake of 12 may. reports say that factories, schools and even civilian homes have collapsed, that in some areas the earthquake has brought down 80 percent of the buildings, that in some cities school buildings have collapsed and buried students, and that, unfortunately, chemical factories have dispersed tons of polluting material into the ground. this time we are able to follow, in all its cruelty, this massacre live thanks to the press and the statements that do not appear to be reticent of the chinese authorities. it should be noted that, compared to the madness of the neighbouring burmese regime, china is open to international aid and assistance on this occasion. as commissioner michel has repeatedly said, europe must continue its humanitarian action in the disaster-stricken province of sichuan.
in writing. - mr president, the aarhus convention recognises that everyone has the right to live in an environment that ensures their health and well-being and the duty to protect the environment, and that to assert this right and fulfil this obligation citizens must have access to information, be able to participate in decision-making processes and have access to justice in environmental matters. article 1 of the convention states that each party to the convention guarantees the right of access to information, of public participation in decision-making processes. it is of great importance that the national and european institutions representing the citizens are more closely involved in this process, not only so that full access to environmental information can be achieved, but also so that the information given is above all correct. in fact, there are too many theories, with more or less scientific basis, that contradict each other. rules must be established to avoid alarms which are sometimes exaggerated and to make environmental protection a duty for all, citizens and institutions. i therefore believe, in expressing my vote in favour of the resolution on behalf of the uen group, that the widest possible representation of this parliament is needed in the european union delegation to the meeting of the parties to the convention scheduled for 11-13 june 2008.
, in writing. thank you, mr. president, but we're back to the same old story. indiscriminate arrests of opponents of the ruling regime. too often this parliament has spoken of belarus: so many words, so few consistent actions. we must recognize that the lukashenko regime is openly hostile to the european union and that our demands for respect for human rights and democratization in belarus are completely inadequate. we are strengthening our contacts with civil society and with these internal movements that are calling for change: the sakharov prize was a first concrete sign. but we must continue along this path. i have been in belarus in recent weeks and i have seen a growing awareness among the belarusian people of the need for a change that guarantees freedom, justice, equity and democracy. i call on the commission to pay particular attention to belarus, which is located in a strategic area to ensure peace and security for the whole of the european continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the cfsp programme, but it is a little bit smiling from a europe which cannot even control its external borders, which are violated every day by thousands of illegal immigrants, traffickers and mafia members. a security policy without doctrine! if there is, mr solana, tell us what this doctrine is! the report is full of talk about climate change, but it ignores the danger of possible military attacks, of terrorist attacks of a biological or even nuclear nature, a danger that is much more serious and perhaps real, given the explicit threat of islamic terrorism. a europe weak in terms of political conclusions. let us take the black sea, for example, a chessboard on which there is no european policy. yet it is the chessboard on which our energy future, our security, is decided. where is europe's political line on this chessboard? the lisbon treaty will also offer nothing more than what has been achieved: the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. the void, mr solana, of ten years of foreign policy management. in these ten years you have only realized the void!
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a matter of linguistic discrimination within our parliament: the interfaces of the members' computers are only in english. our operating systems, our file access capabilities, you can navigate through our computers with only english language commands. i think that is absolutely discriminatory towards those members who, not knowing english, want to manage their work directly on their own computer. it is a language homologation problem that our esperanto friends are trying to deal with at the united nations, and i'm not sure what the francophonie is dealing with if it's not dealing with this as well. but i hope, mr president, that this can be remedied, just as the technological discrimination can be remedied on the basis of which i submitted a written question on 2 june in an open format - the so-called odfs - different from the microsoft proprietary format currently in use, and i was told by the services that it is not possible to submit questions in an open format. i hope that these linguistic and technological distinctions can soon be overcome.
this item is closed.
the agenda includes the report by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2011 and amending regulations (ec) no 552/97 and (ec) no 1933/2006 and commission regulations (ec) no 964/2007 and (ec) no 1100/2006 (com (((2007) 0857 c6-0051/2008 2007/0289 ((cns)) (a6-0200/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by alain hutchinson, on behalf of the committee on development, on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2007 (2007/2180 (ini)) (a6-0175/2008).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr hutchinson on his work and on the political approach to the report which i share. the road to dialogue and cooperation is well under way. i want to make one point. in order to meet the needs of the people of the acp countries and to achieve the ambitious millennium development goals, it is necessary that the negotiations for economic partnership agreements (epas) on a national and regional basis be increasingly open to democratic participation and oversight. i therefore reiterate the centrality of the commitments we made in kigali at the 14th session of the joint parliamentary assembly for our action. the reference to the need to take due account of the safeguarding and defence of democratic institutions and human rights in the negotiation and implementation of new agreements is also welcome. our efforts cannot and must not be reduced to mere economic aid.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have listened with great interest to the speeches that have been made by the honourable members. i do not think it is appropriate for the commission to react to or interfere with your agenda and your priorities, so i shall not mention yet what the thoughts of our side are. it is up to you. on the issue of reopening negotiations, it must be quite clear that the interim agreements are the only way to preserve the trade flows after the deadline of 1 january 2008, and they cannot be reopened. however, the discussion, and hence the negotiation towards full epa – regional and with full coverage – is ongoing.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is thanks to the careful work of the european commission that we have been able to put the rigidity of retail banking under a magnifying glass. we have been working on this together with mr karas and it has so far received very broad support, almost unanimous support, in the committee responsible. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to express my special thanks to commissioner kroes for her willingness to discuss this sensitive matter with parliament. the consumer-bank relationship in europe remains complicated because of the distortions in the banking sector. the report is of fundamental importance and must be recovered by pointing out the shortcomings and inefficiencies and identifying the main problems and possible solutions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. that is why i am asking in the report that it should be easy and inexpensive for the consumer to change banks. in too many european countries, this is still a slow and costly process. we also oppose any contractual constraint which is not clearly necessary and which prevents or hinders the mobility of customers. the european banking industry is recommended to improve procedures for closing a current account, applying only fully justifiable costs, ensuring the speed of such service and avoiding duplication of costs. the commission is also asked to ensure that banks provide better quality information and more easily accessible to consumers, through a cost-item-oriented information module in a format that allows easy comparison. i myself, who am a bank teller, throw away forms when they arrive at my home because they are unreadable, and so do millions and millions of other citizens. this is no longer bearable. if the banks do not comply with these instructions, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, the european commission is invited to propose legislative action to that effect. i also ask that the feasibility of a european web search engine be considered, which would allow customers to compare the services offered by different banking sites. you have to be able to click on a computer, access the internet and have a computing platform that allows us to say, there's a better choice i can make. we're not in that condition today. a separate chapter is represented by the so-called interbank commissions. in view of the position taken by the european commission on this matter, i have put forward a proposal: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the criteria for the calculation of interchange fees are laid down once and for all for operators, in the form of guidelines, so as to ensure that the sector operates correctly and transparently. i would conclude, to avoid a four-minute blur. i hope that the commission will act immediately, quickly, at least quickly and concretely on these indications, which i hope parliament will approve tomorrow morning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a desire on the part of this parliament to harmonize the european banking world. but i think that families and small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly concerned, particularly in my country, italy, about certain practices which are also currently subject to a strong and complex scrutiny of public opinion. i am talking, for example, about the maximum commission uncovered and about the anatocism, that is, interest on interest. these are practices which have come into conflict with the constitutional court and the court of cassation. so i do not understand how one can speak of fee transparency or clarity in the way fees are charged, when in a country like italy there are still such strong conflicts between banks and the judiciary. the same is true of the flexibility of mortgages. at the moment there is particular concern that thousands, hundreds of thousands of households have major problems with the flexibility of the mortgage. i therefore think that this parliament must first of all bring the national banking sector into line with the criteria of greater justice.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members once again for their work on this issue. the point has been made that we need transparency and a clear overview of what is entailed for the consumer. quality is more important than quantity, but sometimes you need a bit of quantity to get the quality. the commission very much welcomes your clear support for the need for measures. we are aware that we have to improve the level of efficiency, and that we have to improve the functioning of the retail banking sector, which remains fragmented along national lines. that is not in line with the single market that we all believe in. therefore, the retail banking sector – which is an open door – is of key importance to all of us, to all the consumers and to the economy as a whole. parliament’s report reflects the importance which you too attach to this area. mrs roithová talked about the situation in her country but mentioned that it was not only in her country that the high fees are often the result of a fragmented market with only a few players. the situation we found in the sector inquiry report, which i have already touched upon, is quite clear. we think, and we expect, that the introduction of sepa will provide an answer to many of the problems, because it will facilitate cross-border competition, and that is what is needed. it is a pro-market approach and it should work. we are, therefore, very much behind this initiative and are working with the industry to help sepa reach its goals. mr sánchez presedo rightly said that promoting competition is key to this whole approach, because if there is no competition then we are all aware that the banks are trying to pull our legs. on the actual cost of payment cards, which mrs starkevičiūtė asked about, we share the honourable member’s wish for more transparency in the market. pro-competition means that we should be aware of what is going on in the market, and the fact that it was not clear why consumers benefited from this was one of the reasons for prohibiting mastercard’s interchange fees – that was clear-cut. our aim is to see fees which have clear and verifiable benefits to consumers. mr klinz rightly talked about rights, and these are always combined with responsibilities: not only of the customers but also of all of us – the banks and all the players in the game. we need more transparency, we need to be clear what we are picking out. the changes to the market are hopefully leading in that direction.
member of the commission. − mr president, as i remarked earlier, the reports are excellent pieces of work. they are thorough and consistent and will provide a significant contribution to our ongoing work on retail and financial services. i appreciate that some people might wish us to move faster on some of the initiatives, but speed does not always equate to equality. we are committed to our better regulation principles, including thorough impact assessments. some of our initiatives, such as bank accounts, have been underway for several years and should bear fruit this year. others, such as our work on retail investment projects, are a little newer and will require more research before we can reach any firm conclusions. mrs roithová referred to bank changes and my colleague neelie kroes has dealt with that issue. i would just like to point out that we cannot regulate charges as such, but what we really need is real competition and the ability of consumers to easily switch from providers with which they are dissatisfied. of course we want to make it easier for them to switch and to have a variety of players in the marketplace. that in itself will bring down prices. mrs margarita starkevičiūtė raised a number of issues. i have noted all her suggestions and we will act on them as far as possible. mr ettl spoke about the retail banks. the green paper that we published precisely addresses some of these real concerns. i usually agree with my friend mr wolf klinz but, unless i misunderstood, i detected that he was not so anxious about the switching of bank accounts. what we are trying to do is allow consumers to switch bank accounts easily within member states. i would just point out that it not rocket science. other member states have embarked upon codes of conduct and have done it quite easily. we have given the banking industry an opportunity to self-regulate in this particular area. i have met some of them. some come up with all kinds of wonderful and wondrous excuses about why it cannot be done, but i can assure them that it is not astrophysics that we are dealing with. it is quite simple to operate and is an opportunity for them to prove that self-regulation is the better way. but, as i said in my earlier remarks, if we do not do this, there are other alternatives available to us. however, i do agree with mr klinz’s second point about the bank structures in various member states. these are entirely for each member state to organise, and there are different banking structures in all of the member states. a member state itself can organise its structures in any way it wishes, but if it enters into the free market area, it must abide by the rules of the treaty, and this could sometimes lead to conflict. however, the organisation of the banking structure in a member state is solely a matter for the member state concerned. i agree with mrs mcguinness regarding the operation of codes of conduct. she referred to the great phase of endowment mortgages. i was a little reluctant ever to go down that road myself and resisted it for years, but at one time, with another person, i allowed myself to avail of one of those. i was one of the lucky ones. i turned out at the end of the period of time with a profit, which was a surprise to me and to everybody else, given my earlier reluctance in that area. however, i do not think that anybody could be blamed for the way endowment mortgages went. it was the fashion of the time. everybody believed in doing it this particular way, and there was a fair amount of aggressive selling. but i think that, as long as the consumer is aware of many of the pitfalls, that is what codes of conduct or any type of consumer protection should do. i always say to people in business, whether they be in big or small businesses – and we should be aware as consumers – if a thing looks too good, it is too good.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, quickly, in the meantime, thank you to all the members who have spoken and again to the commissioners and to mr karas. quickly on the interbank fees. my proposal for guidelines is based on the conviction - and we may disagree, commissioner - that the interbank commission is useful in ensuring the development and efficiency of the payment instrument. in addition, in the absence of interbank fees, there is a risk that the costs will be passed on to consumers. turning instead to the question of what is the best approach to financial market regulation, i believe that financial markets - as i have often said to commissioner mccreevy - poorly and poorly regulated and the often ineffective work of self-regulation by the banking industry are elements which have shown, with the current financial crisis, all their negative impact. i therefore believe that it would be wrong to think that a serious integration of the retail financial sector can be achieved only by self-regulation by the industry. the financial market for retail products will only be truly integrated if the full harmonisation of consumer protection rules is achieved and guaranteed. and this can be achieved also and above all through a legislative initiative by the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a duty and a responsibility to play an important role in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and it does so by means of a series of repressive measures, by strengthening controls, inspections and sanctions. but the most ambitious objective is preventive: allow and ensure traceability of the product from the catch to the final destination. this is because, while the economic and environmental damage caused by this illegal activity is serious, the objectives to be achieved in terms of consumer protection with a quality product and the protection of the fishermen's profession, which is now more than ever in crisis due to a number of factors, not only economic but also structural. these are the significant social objectives that guide the european union in preventing, deterring and eliminating illegal fishing, which is the subject of this regulation, and which reinforce the commitment to respect the rules of the common fisheries policy in community waters. the unanimous vote in the aubert report in committee is an important sign of the will to make the proposed measures effective.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, yesterday there was a general alert issued by the ecurie system, the safety system of the european commission and the european union, in connection with an unspecified accident at a nuclear power station in slovenia. after that this alarm seems to have returned, but there remain some doubts about the true nature of this incident and the reasons that justified this alarm which is very unusual. we therefore want to ask, taking advantage of the fact that the commission will be with us today and the slovenian presidency will be the presidency, to urge the presidency and the commission to give the european parliament, and therefore the public, the real reasons why this totally unusual procedure was followed. and i, mr president, would be grateful if you would follow up this matter.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i should speak french today. i'll do that for you. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament for putting the issue of our relations with our mediterranean partners on the agenda of this plenary. this is a debate on a subject of vital importance for europe, and i would particularly like to welcome the role of the european parliament, which in recent years has shown a continuous interest in the mediterranean. the barcelona process has given us the opportunity to address many strategic regional issues and, of course, political issues. i think a lot has been achieved, but many common challenges remain. among these challenges i would mention security, environmental protection, the sustainability of energy supplies, the fight against organised crime, the control of migration flows and intercultural dialogue. beyond this cooperation with our mediterranean neighbours, i would like to strengthen mutual understanding and mutual respect, but also mutual trust. last march, the european council invited the commission to redefine the terms of the 'barcelona process: union for the mediterranean' and the commission did so on 20 may, adopting a communication which stresses the central place of the mediterranean, its historical and contemporary importance, and the considerable challenges for our common future. but i would also like to say that there is still, of course, the european neighbourhood policy, which is a bilateral policy, while the other is regional. it is also to be expected that the existing action plans actually implement the decisions taken at the various sectoral ministerial meetings. when we think of the mediterranean, we think of the cradle of the three monotheistic religions, the cradle of civilization and culture, of migration and trade. we are thinking of the history of the mediterranean, an inseparable history from that of europe. the mediterranean basin is indeed the crossroads of north and south, east and west, and, situated at the confluence of three continents, it is more than just a border for the european union. stability in this region is essential for our security and prosperity and for the security and prosperity of our mediterranean neighbours and friends. it is only through political action that is both voluntary and realistic, through strong and sustained commitment, and through constructive dialogue, that we can tackle these challenges together. the commission has always advocated a stronger, more open and more constructive relationship with our mediterranean partners, and we are making concrete proposals to achieve this. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and that the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past. the barcelona process has unfortunately suffered from the persistence of conflict in the southern mediterranean and, at times, from a lack of cooperation between the various partners, but a positive development is taking place - as i have seen during my recent visits to the region. the time has come to take advantage of renewed political will to give new impetus to our cooperation and to make it more balanced and closer to our citizens. three objectives are essential for us. first, to strengthen the political level of the european union's relations with its mediterranean partners. secondly, to share more responsibly our multilateral relations with them and, thirdly, to promote additional regional and subregional projects, useful to the citizens of the region, which will make these relations more tangible and visible. yes, what added value there would be! of course there will be private funds because up to now it has been the community sector. now, it's the private sector that will be added. of course, we have to see if this is really going to work, but that's the idea. it is therefore essential to strengthen the level of our relations. the commission proposes to organise biannual summits of heads of state or government. it would be difficult to understand why we hold regular summits with our important partners around the world without having a forum for discussion between heads of state and government with our neighbours and friends in the mediterranean. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has established itself as the parliamentary dimension of the barcelona process. it provides a space for debate, open dialogue and free exchange of views. it gives impetus to the partnership by adopting resolutions and recommendations, and will be the legitimate parliamentary representation of the union for the mediterranean. the commission fully supports the strengthening of the role of the parliamentary assembly in relations with the mediterranean partner. a better sharing of responsibilities is also essential. for several years, a widespread and essential idea was that the agenda of the barcelona process was influenced by the fact that the presidency of the european union also held the presidency of the euro-mediterranean partnership. three proposals received general support from the partners. the establishment of a joint presidency of the group by a southern and a northern country, a joint standing committee based in brussels, responsible for governance, and a secretariat dedicated to the promotion of projects. finally, as robert schuman said, concrete projects are needed which 'first create a de facto solidarity'. the quality of the projects carried out together will guarantee the success of the initiative. it will enable citizens to feel the strength of the links linking the two shores of the mediterranean. these must be projects that have a structuring effect on the region and that allow the integration of non-state actors, civil society and businesses. europe must be a lever, private capital a relay. the commission proposes, as an indication, the promotion of motorways of the sea, the interconnection of the arab maghreb motorway, the promotion of solar energy and the cleanup of the mediterranean. of course, this list is open and other projects will follow. however, the paris summit must take action now. i would like to conclude, madam president, by stressing something which i consider essential. this renewed cooperation with our partners in the south will in no way be at the expense of our policies and strong links with our neighbours in the east. on the contrary, in addition to our efforts to strengthen individual links with our friends in the east, the commission is deepening regional cooperation with its 'synergy for the black sea' initiative. we will be publishing the annual report very soon to mark the first anniversary of its launch. on this occasion we can discuss the recent initiative of the poles and swedes. through these efforts, in the east as in the south, we will continue on our course: to enrich our relations with flexible cooperation instruments, dedicated to the priorities of our partners. the paris summit is a real opportunity to give a new dimension to our relations with our mediterranean partners. if no one can ignore the lessons of the past, we must not remain prisoners of it, and the initiative of the 'barcelona process: union for the mediterranean' will open a new era in our relations with our southern neighbours, a new partnership, based on fruitful elements of the barcelona process, in order to advance together our common goals of peace, democracy and prosperity. forgive me, ma'am, if i've been a little long, but i believe this is an essential subject for me and for all of us.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for his statement, and i am also very pleased that he has now taken the opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the ppe-de group. we must applaud president sarkozy for having stirred things up, for having brought about a new interest on the part of the european council and for having set in motion a process of renewal of our mediterranean policy, which my group supports and hopes will be concrete and rapid. we know how difficult it is to pursue the ambitious objectives of the barcelona process. on the one hand, we have the unresolved conflict in the middle east and the tensions in western sahara. we also have the gap that sometimes separates us from the democratic, economic and social models of our partner countries, which hinders the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves. this is serious, it makes the situation difficult, but it must not be an alibi to justify delays or reconsiderations. we believe that the political initiative of president sarkozy and the support provided by the european commission are going in the right direction, namely to give concrete form and a tangible signal of our political will. to this end the commission has identified four projects, which our commissioner mentioned here this morning, which are in addition to the activities already planned: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the creation of a highway of the sea, the clean-up of the mediterranean, environmental governance, cooperation in civil protection to deal with natural disasters and, finally, a plan for solar energy in the mediterranean. each of these projects is important. so i shall not dwell on them, but we shall do so when the commission gives us more details. these are projects which, if they are realised, will be an incredibly important impetus both to give impetus to the barcelona process and to complete the actions already started and not yet completed. i would remind you of the free trade area planned for 2010, which we would like to know more about, commissioner, as well as the progress made towards the objectives identified in the association agreements and other projects under way. in conclusion, on the concrete actions to be carried out in a reasonable time, i would also like to remind you that in addition to the sea infrastructure and the north-south relationship, there must also be an impulse for a south-south motorway corridor linking the countries of the southern mediterranean, and that this system should be interconnected with europe. finally, a credit system, aid for water and infrastructure in the middle east. finally, two points to which i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission. the first concerns the commission and the functioning of the mediterranean assembly. the european union has also made important commitments in the middle east. we expect these commitments to be followed by political commitment. can the council tell us what the concrete and real prospects are in this direction?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the european parliament wanted to react immediately to the commission's communication. this is because, as you yourself have said, we are interested in the relaunch and renewal of the euro-mediterranean partnership and its development. we support the commission's approach to the european union as the central institutional and political actor, on the european side, in the building of the union for the mediterranean. this can also encourage the partners in the south to cooperate more closely with each other, which has been very, very difficult so far. we agree with the mission of the union for the mediterranean, which is to achieve economic and territorial integration between the countries of the mediterranean basin through a number of major structural projects, and we also find the exemplary proposals already put forward by the commission appropriate. but even for that purpose, it must be clear who does what. in particular, the role of the commission and that of the constituent secretariat must not overlap. as regards the relaunching of the partnership, it is obvious that we are interested in strengthening its political dimension, not only in the dialogue between governments, but also in the role of parliaments, the establishment of the euro-mediterranean parliament and its work and civil society, in which i very much emphasize the role of the social partners, who have a fundamental role. finally, it must be clear that the projects indicated in the commission's communication must not be to the detriment of regional programmes already in place in the fields of culture, heritage, education and audiovisual. in this connection, we call for the strengthening of the erasmus mundus programme and the refinancing of the euromed audiovisual programme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i will not speak french, i will please president schulz. but that does not prevent me from giving my unconditional approval to president sarkozy's initiative. it was a boost, a shock, which now puts europe in a position to take back an indispensable role in the mediterranean. the merit of sarkozy's initiative is that it has given an untamed answer to the question about the results of the barcelona process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, there was war, there is still the middle east conflict. when barcelona thought of launching this new european policy in 1995, it was thought of administering peace after the conflict. that's not what happened! europe is still behind and this initiative by the french presidency seems appropriate to us. we share the commission's initiative and the compromise that has resulted. we support it, but we think it is still insufficient in relation to the role that europe can and must play in the mediterranean. some people have feared and some fear that the french initiative could call european cohesion into question. i believe that danger does not exist. there is no such danger every time europe is asked to do more politics and less market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr matsakis is right, i agree with much of what he said. there have always been difficulties and problems for the states bordering the mare nostrum, as was said 2,000 years ago. but it is also true that i think it is right that the chairman of the liberal group, mr watson, has said that if we do not give we shall not have. and so i invite the new italian government of president berlusconi to listen to the pleas and prayers of gaddafi who, although we were very concerned about the bulgarian nurses at the time, ignoring what was behind it all, has repeatedly asked italy to build a motorway on its territory. it is not just that it will serve president gaddafi, it will also serve all the citizens of north africa, and so let us show good will and we will have a good result for everyone in the mediterranean.
in writing. i welcome the establishment of the union for the mediterranean, which will help to improve and intensify relations with mediterranean partners and foster mutual knowledge, growth, employment and education in the eu and the 12 participating non-european countries. the promotion of peace and democracy, the control of immigration, economic relations and the supply of raw materials to the mediterranean countries have historically been central to my country's neighbourhood policy. bettino craxi was a pioneer in this. the union for the mediterranean will facilitate the implementation of important crossborder projects throughout the area, which will improve sea highways, tackle marine pollution, improve civil protection, create greater integration of the energy market and develop new renewable technologies. the union for the mediterranean will have to contribute to promoting democracy and the resolution of the conflicts that still destabilise the middle east and western sahara, also through the contribution of the work of the euromed parliamentary assembly, which will have to be fully involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the commission activated the radioactive hazard alert system following an accident whose outline remains unclear in krsko, slovenia. this alert was made public in a procedure that has been described as unusual, but its causes and consequences remain utterly unclear and confused. we therefore ask the slovenian presidency and the commission to maintain the same level of transparency as they have demanded, in particular the commission, and to inform the european parliament and the public of what has really happened and what is happening, because at the moment there are a number of rumours that are being heard, which are neither clear nor particularly clear, and so we ask the european authorities to be clear in this regard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly to join this request. we are facing a very serious problem with a reactor that has had problems before. the greatest possible transparency is also necessary because we know that shutting down and securing a reactor is not an easy procedure. as for my country, we are only a few tens of kilometres from slovenia, which also holds the presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to refer to the subject of compensation for guantanamo prisoners in this report, and to remind you that there is another issue of civilian and military prisoners still to be resolved, which concerns a member state, and indeed a founding state of the european union. yesterday the supreme court of cassation in italy upheld the claims of italian military and civilian prisoners for compensation for work done during the second world war in prison camps. it is a moral question that must be resolved, and i have tried to draw the attention of the president of this house to this on several occasions. i have also spoken to chancellor merkel in this house, and she has personally said that she is in favour of resolving this issue. now that the federal republic of germany's attempts to delay the decision by judicial means have finally failed, one wonders whether, after more than 60 years since the end of the war, germany will decide to compensate our italian military prisoners.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give my favourable vote to the report by mrs marie-hélène aubert on the community system against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. illegal fishing is one of the biggest threats to the sustainability of fish stocks and marine biodiversity. the commission's proposal is important if the european union is to be able to effectively take the lead in an increasingly complex and interconnected sector. i therefore think it desirable that this proposal should apply not only to third country vessels but also to vessels flying the community flag, so that non-discriminatory measures can be adopted and a common policy can be established within the european union. i support the undisputed importance of a certification system which guarantees traceability and allows for a catch guarantee mark, alongside harmonised and dissuasive sanctions and a system of controls and inspections to minimise illegal fishing activities.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome the commission's objectives of simplifying, stabilising and clarifying trade rules and procedures. economic exchanges are a fundamental instrument in the current international scenario, being a means both of improving the efficiency of international markets and of the socio-cultural growth of the nations involved. trade agreements between countries can ensure political stability and provide a solid foundation for diplomatic arrangements that may be more or less durable. they are therefore increasingly the main actors in a world increasingly dominated by economic relations which, while also influencing the flow of cultural exchanges between peoples, avoid military clashes and help to maintain peace. trade is therefore a very important vehicle for dialogue and an opportunity for economic and social development. making trade less rigid means making the economic system more efficient. given the importance of the subject under discussion, i hope that the house will take a strong responsibility for achieving these objectives.
in writing. - i support the report by mr mathieu grosch on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down common rules for access to the market in bus transport services. i agree with the proposal to liberalize bus transport services within the member states not only to lighten the european legislative framework in this area but also to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the union. to this end, identity and recognition documents must be uniform throughout the whole of europe in order to facilitate the checks which the member state reserves the right to carry out when passengers, in addition to transit through that state, carry out cabotage operations. i hope that the authorities of the member states whose territory it crosses will be informed in advance.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the proposal by mr horst schnellhardt on food hygiene. this proposal involves two distinct issues: the reduction of administrative burdens in the field of transport prices and conditions and the rules governing the exemption of micro-enterprises from the obligations arising from the haccp system, aimed at ensuring the highest degree of food safety, a high level of protection of human life and health and the interests of consumers. i agree that haccp procedures should remain, since their abolition would lower the prospect of achieving these objectives, since they are in favour of food business operators, enhance their safety and responsibility and guarantee fair conditions of competition and flexibility in the free movement of food for human consumption within the community. the amendment should be extended to all member states and be approved by them, clearly binding the safety requirements.
in writing. - in a society dominated by a globalised economic market, in a world in which three billion people live on less than two dollars a day and over one billion survive on one dollar, it is the duty of the community institutions to encourage the economic development of the so-called third world through appropriate trade policies. the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity. in addition to purely economic factors such as market shares, other criteria such as the level of development and the commitment of the beneficiaries to a democratic path must also be taken into account, and trade in those products which often constitute the economic peculiarity of a given country must be encouraged. but in promoting these objectives we must be careful not to tie the economies of the developing countries to the production of a narrow range of goods, especially if these are the lowest value-added products, because this would hinder, rather than promote, the development and economic growth of these countries.
in writing. − europe's security needs have changed. the risk of territorial aggression, which underlies the classical concept of defence, has largely been replaced by the danger arising from regional borders in areas adjacent to the territory of the union. to this must be added the threat of terrorism and also the explosion of migratory flows, the radicalisation of fundamentalism and extremism of various kinds, the increase in illicit trafficking and the risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. for the european union, it is not just a question of acquiring the means to act autonomously in the management of international crises, but of coming up with a genuine european defence system. the european union must not, however, limit itself, in the process of extending its external intervention capacity, to the military dimension alone, but must commit itself to developing, in parallel, civilian instruments for crisis management with police action, civil administrators, judicial officers, civil protection, etc. the common security policy must therefore be strengthened to give the union a key role in the international geopolitical arena, a role distinct but not distant from that played by nato. it is with this hope that i am voting today in favour of mr saryusz-wolski's report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this report, which is an important and further contribution to the economic development of europe. i therefore welcome the excellent work done by mr pittella, who has clearly expressed the proposals and principles which should regulate such an important matter. the harmonization of the credit market is a further step towards a very important objective: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their activities. financial services have a general economic interest by playing a key role both in terms of economic development and in terms of the effective implementation of the schengen objectives. i am thinking of the enormous difficulties that citizens have in finding the right information and the exit barriers, often represented by high costs of abandonment, that users face when they want to change credit institutions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the work of the committee responsible and the rapporteur, mr karas, has provided a further means of parliamentary debate which is useful in clarifying the problems to be tackled and solved in this field. i also welcome the fact that the emphasis is finally being placed on small businesses and not just on large capital movements. the financial services sector is not only for large companies operating at european or intercontinental level, but is also an essential tool for anyone who wants to bring new ideas and ways of doing business beyond their target market. high-level legislative action by the european union will certainly lead to more competition and lower costs for consumers, with a positive impact on the increase in choice and access to these services by users. given the importance of this sector and the benefits that would be derived from improvements in the legislation in this area, i am pleased to see that parliament will finally have the opportunity to propose the right measures for the direct benefit of consumers with this report.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jackson, for her excellent contribution to the revision of the waste framework directive, and the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment for their positive and constructive contribution. the community is taking the first substantial step towards the creation of a recycling society with this directive. the directive introduces a modern approach to waste management. it treats waste as exploitable raw materials. it provides clearer definitions, simplified provisions, but also new ambitious objectives. by incorporating the provisions of the hazardous waste directive and the spent mineral oils directive, the directive contributes to the wider effort to improve legislation and simplify the community acquis. the next step, of course, will be to implement it successfully. the effort and persistence of parliament has been considerable and has borne fruit. it was not easy to convince member states to accept the new recycling targets and to agree on the prevention targets. however, this objective was fully achieved. some doubts were expressed as to whether the targets would be implemented by the member states. i would point out that, with the current wording of the quantitative targets, the commission has the power and the political will to refer member states to the european court of justice if they have not taken the measures necessary to achieve the recycling targets. many other important elements were incorporated by parliament into the text of the directive. among these are the hierarchy of waste into 5 categories, new provisions on the separate collection of bio-waste and hazardous waste, and many useful clarifications. these elements enrich the commission's original proposal and improve the text to make it an ambitious legislative tool for future generations. it is of course very gratifying that it has been possible to reach agreement at the second reading. i would like to stress once again the constructive role of the european parliament in this process. the directive establishes a new framework for waste management and provides a solid foundation for other community policy initiatives. the european commission is in a position to support the compromise package in order to reach an agreement at second reading.
on behalf of the pse group. i am helped by the fact that mrs jackson and then commissioner dimas have explained the main points of this compromise perfectly, which i also support. so i shall be allowed to make an eminently political point. i am a negotiator and i always ask myself whether the compromise reached is really valid or not. and so i read the lyrics again in my head after the night of the negotiation. i wonder why negotiations always have to end at night. is a deal made in the morning worth less? that too is worth considering. and i say this to my friends in the green group and the gue, but i also say this to my friend florenz, who saw an amendment from the committee on the environment bearing my signature being reintroduced and which i cannot but share. i say this to you sincerely, by analysing the texts, the compromise text and the text from the committee on the environment, we have really achieved something. we know, or we do not know, that in the commission proposal and then in the common position there was nothing about recycling. nothing but a recital that mentioned this recycling company, not to be more specific. there was nothing! now we go out with specific targets; we're coming out with a 2014 revision that may include other materials that are not currently planned. we are leaving with legal certainty, as commissioner dimas has just confirmed, that it is possible to sanction those states which do not implement the measures envisaged to achieve these objectives. it seems to me to be of great importance. it is also of great importance that we have finally set in motion a political and legal process to oblige the states to give themselves real plans for the prevention of waste, and that we have finally incorporated into european legislation, with a legally binding character, a hierarchy of waste treatment which respects the environment, such that waste is not only a problem but a resource. in all honesty, therefore, and in a sense of responsibility, i believe that not accepting this compromise and going for an adventurous conciliation is not in the interests of the european citizens, but entrusting the achievement and setting of these objectives, which are clear and absolutely incontrovertible, to a kind of russian roulette.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome and support all the amendments which seek to introduce the objectives which are essential for prevention in order to improve recycling. i also agree with the insistence on a precise waste hierarchy and its articulation. it is also essential to have statistically reliable and comparable data in order to be able to reason both in terms of the prevention and recycling of industrial waste. i think that we in parliament should be very much in favour of the hierarchy principle being applied as a general rule rather than the council's request, which would prefer the guiding principle. the directive must, in the end, clarify the criteria for possible derogations, which must, in my view, be dealt with in an orderly and distinct manner, without any uncertainty as to what recovery means and what disposal means. i agree with the rapporteur that energy recovery plants play an important role in the treatment of waste and that today, given the european union's dependence on unsafe imported energy from many other parts of the world, we are faced with an important choice in this area as well. i would like to conclude by saying that i also welcome the amendments relating to the regeneration of waste oils, which were removed at an earlier stage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to have to criticize some of the compromises which have been reached and which risk betraying, at least in part, what parliament voted very well in the first reading. and i am sorry because these deteriorations were forced on the council and they are wrong and dangerous. i mean, from my point of view, since i live in italy. italy is unfortunately the bad example here of waste management which has not respected either the spirit or the letter of european legislation, which has long been consolidated in a virtuous hierarchy ranging from reduction to recycling. this hierarchy must be strengthened with quantified and certain reduction and recycling targets, including for industrial waste, and not weakened, as is sometimes the case, leaving room for disposal policies that betray its philosophy. italy, for example, has spent billions of euros in recent years to encourage the practice of incinerating waste, with results that are obvious to everyone and are certainly not positive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached is a step backwards compared with the text adopted by the committee on the environment. the original text stipulated that from 2012 waste generation should be reduced to 2009 levels, establishing a real prevention policy with measures graduated over time. in the compromise, that objective was deleted, leaving everything vague. envi had set minimum targets for the recycling of domestic and industrial waste which were to be achieved in a certain but distant time. these targets have also been watered down, limiting them to only certain types of material and excluding industrial waste. another negative note comes from the promotion of incinerators beyond a certain efficiency from disposal plants to recovery plants. this directive seems to be consistent with the logic of powerful lobbies. the outcome of the referendum in ireland has shown that either we are on the side of the people and their concerns, or we risk the rejection of the idea of europe and the paralysis of the integration process. parliament must listen to the thousands of e-mails from european citizens calling for more binding commitments and targets, otherwise we risk losing a new great opportunity to strengthen the credibility of the european institutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to stress that i very much welcome the fact that in 2010 a special focus will be placed on policies to combat poverty and social exclusion throughout europe. i would like to make a few critical remarks. i was very disturbed by the way in which proposals for improvement were scrambled, mainly under pressure from the council, only to achieve agreement at first reading. i asked for more money for this important initiative in the 2010 budget, since poverty reduction is a clear objective of the lisbon agenda, which unfortunately has not been achieved at all. i also wanted to see a closer look at the many funds that the european commission is giving out, especially in the run-up to 2010, to see whether they are an instrument for a fairer balance or whether they might even help the rich get richer while the poor get less. i would also have liked to see a discussion on the introduction of an unconditional basic income within the eu institutions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of information centres. i very much regret that these proposals were immediately rejected. i am in favour of the initiative of a european year. however, i find that it is too uncommitted and has too few social and political consequences.
we shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the urgency procedure to be applied to the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for the period from 1 august 2008 to 31 july 2012 (com (2008) 0243 c6-0199/2008 2008/0093 ((cns)). i call mr morillon to speak on behalf of the committee on fisheries.
the agenda includes the report by manfred weber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on common rules and procedures in member states for returning illegally staying third-country nationals (com ((2005) 0391 c6-0266/2005 2005/0167 cod)) (a6-0339/2007).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is a horror that threatens to erase millennia of culture of hospitality, the deep roots of a european identity forged by practices of hospitality. this directive is yet another monument to the fortress europe, the materialization of the reactionary utopia which wants to prevent the freedom of movement of men and women. the right to mobility cannot be curtailed by locking men and women behind barbed wire or in a stinking detention centre. for 18 months, minister mate, that's the maximum period of detention, not six months as you said. eighteen months without a single crime! look, i appeal to what was said by msgr. agostino marchetto of the council of migrants of the italian bishops' conference, who said that you cannot detain a person for a simple administrative violation and then detain people in inhuman and degrading places like the ones visited by the civil liberties committee of this parliament. moreover, this directive is an inhuman directive because it provides for repatriation to transit countries. libya is in danger of becoming a place of mass deportation of migrants. it provides for the detention and expulsion of unaccompanied minors, it prohibits return, thus systematically violating the right of asylum, and it provides for discretionary legal assistance. that is the real nature of this directive! moreover, this directive is an imposition by governments. we have seen in this house the dictatorship of the council which said to parliament: "drink or drown", even threatening the prospect of continuing any discussion of immigration. the european parliament is being subjected to this decision. i appeal to the dignity of the european parliament. it's not about co-decision. we are dealing with a favourable opinion from the council. the truth is that governments want to activate the 700 million euro repatriation fund immediately. that is the real nature of this directive. we must listen to society, to those outside this parliament, to the heads of state of third countries, to amnesty international, to the churches, to the european bishops' conferences, to the trade unions, to the council of europe. everyone is telling us not to approve this directive. even the united nations high commissioner, who according to the treaty of amsterdam should be consulted on all asylum and immigration matters of the european commission, tells us not to approve this directive. these repressive policies are the real cause of the greatest tragedy of the european union: the dead at sea. yesterday, 150 died, and in the last ten years, 12,000 have died. the european union is being tarnished by an unacceptable crime and by this directive is becoming an additional accomplice to these murders which have turned the mediterranean into a graveyard. it is probably appropriate, as a tribute to these martyrs, not to adopt this directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to the council because we are not discussing our directive, the commission's proposal, but the way in which the council has emptied it of all meaning. this directive reflects the common sense that is taking over the debate in europe on immigration. the fact that it was unanimously approved by the council does not diminish but rather intensifies the message it represents. and it is a message that speaks to us of a europe built on the principle of mistrust. the issue is not the usefulness of a directive, which creates a common and shared discipline. the subject is what this directive provides. the day after 150 illegal immigrants drowned in the mediterranean, you ask us to send word to the survivors that from tomorrow those like them who are already in our countries will be facing a measure that provides for up to eighteen months' imprisonment. we are affirming a devastating legal principle which provides for the possibility of depriving an individual of liberty for up to eighteen months by administrative action and without having committed any crime. what we would never tolerate in our countries for a european citizen, we allow and support for illegal immigrants. the 18 amendments which our group has tabled to restore political civility to this legislation are an attempt to restore a measure of dignity to a measure which we consider to be humiliating not only for the european union but also for our member states. if they are not accepted, there will be many votes against, including my own, mr president. i don't think there is a broad consensus, mr. weber. there is no consensus on the discretion and the arbitrariness that we are giving to our countries in how the most significant points of this directive will be dealt with. and this parliament is not the guardian of abstract rules. it is a parliament to which the treaties entrust the duty of safeguarding concrete principles, legal principles and concrete political civilization. the council is asking us to give up these principles in order to move quickly. we believe that there is a fundamental misunderstanding here. you're not asking us to do it fast, you're asking us to do it bad. it is bad for immigrants, bad for europe, bad for our member states, and it is a responsibility we do not want to share with you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must make sure that people are expelled and we must discourage illegality and exploitation. this is, in my view, the objective of the so-called 'return' directive. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, which was the basis for the compromise reached with the council. it is a balanced text, based on a number of basic assumptions: the european union must finally have a common immigration policy. we've been talking about this for a long, long time. the adoption of common rules, which are essential to fully protect the rights of citizens who are legal immigrants, is a great positive asset, provided that an uncompromising policy against illegal immigration is put into action. other qualifying points i would like to stress: voluntary return is promoted in the first instance; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council and the european parliament. this is no small achievement. i would remind you that up to now - and many other members have already done so - each member state was free to set or not to set a limit on the length of stay. and then, special attention is paid to human rights, especially for vulnerable people and especially for minors, invoking the best interests of the child. it is a revolutionary fact that reflects exactly what is happening in detention centres today. finally, the re-entry ban is valid throughout the eu. i believe that these are common, fair and transparent rules which can form part of a strategy, a pact for integration as defined by the next president of the eu, which will see the strengthening of controls at the union's external borders, the drawing up of a new asylum policy, the relaunching of diplomatic cooperation, but also and above all development cooperation with third countries. finally, a european code for the integration of legal immigrants. europe must assume its responsibilities, it must have authority, it must have credibility, it must become the europe of rights and rules. we have to approve this text, which could certainly be improved. everything is improvable. the member states can do that, but after three years it would be painful to wait for months, years, to find a further, infinitesimal compromise which would always be judged to be a downward one. while we live in our golden world, made up of endless compromises, many people are being exploited, dying in a barbaric, inhuman way, as happened yesterday in italy. more responsibility please and less words!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to protest against the imprudent and inexplicable words of vice-president barrot yesterday on the possibility of considering illegal immigration an aggravating factor in crime, proposed by the italian government. i do not think that this has any legal basis and certainly does not meet with public approval. i would like to say, with regard to the weber report, that i think illegal immigration should be considered ipso facto as a possibility and a possibility of escape. it is quite clear that the immigrant, the moment he enters illegally, has a propensity to flee. i would also say that the commission and this parliament need to consider the importance of making the countries from which these immigrants ultimately come - such as libya in the case of italy - pay. they have to pay the enormous cost that illegal immigration is creating right now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental flaw in europe's immigration policy: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the protection of human rights. the left, with its pro-life amendments, expresses its non-political position on the return of illegal immigrants. the institution of the european ombudsman is pure demagogy! do we want to give the public defender to illegal immigrants? well, a serious policy is one that is contrary to the interests of globalism, which wants to uproot people from their territory because it considers them either as commodities or as slaves, new consumers. we're against it! if the mediterranean is a graveyard, the moral responsibility lies with those who opened the doors to illegal landings! we have always denounced, for example in lampedusa, this foul trade in human flesh! it's a disgrace! if these amendments from the left were to pass, the european policy of returning migrants would be over before it had even begun.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr weber, asked why this parliament did not see some of the positive measures introduced by this proposal for a directive. but the rapporteur speaks to us as if this parliament were faced with the final vote, the final reading, the obligation to exercise the ultimate responsibility of taking or leaving. but you didn't! we're in a first reading. it is therefore difficult to understand why, in the face of proposals for improvement which have a broad consensus in this house, certainly from the right and the left, additional guarantees can be given on minors, on third countries in transit, on bans on return, we do not seize this opportunity. you tell us why the council decided, why the government decided. but this - and mr jonckheer has said this - is a renunciation of our power as co-legislators, which means - and i say this with respect for the work that has been done in three years of negotiations - that we are at this point in not exercising our power to improve this directive. the european governments need this parliament precisely to make europe not a place of fear and of more effective instruments for the defence of immigration, but europe as the place of integration and also of immigration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with many of my colleagues who have been and are taking part in the debate in this chamber this morning, we experienced this phenomenon at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when we visited many parts of europe, when we visited many first-aid centres. i understand that the phenomenon is complex, the phenomenon has many facets. each of us, by culture, by character, by political position, is led to look at it from a particular point of view. but we cannot ignore the fact that we are not talking about a few immigrants here, as was the case a hundred years ago. we are not talking about small or isolated phenomena, but we are talking about the immigration of peoples. we are talking about millions and millions of people moving for various reasons, not so much for asylum, not so much for political reasons, but for the search for new living and working conditions. i cannot, unfortunately, because the weather is unfair, not thank mr weber. i cannot but thank the current chairman of the libe committee, mr deprez, mr cavada, and all the colleagues with whom we have been dealing with this phenomenon in good time. i am of the opinion that perfect legislation is better than no legislation. i am convinced that europe is right to treat everyone, but above all, in this complex and serious phenomenon we are experiencing, it is right to treat its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not comment on what mrs jackson has just said. i think, however, and this is something my group has always advocated, that we must get to a better regulation of the question of conflicts of interest, since this parliament, as a co-legislator, will have in the future and has today, more and more, the need to be transparent and fair, not only transparent but also fair, with regard to the conflicts of interest of its members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to point out that the opportunity you gave us to vote on amendment no 27 again has made it possible to correct an injustice, because we were able to vote on amendment no 92 which, if amendment no 27 had been adopted, would have been invalid. i think that this decision was therefore all the more wise and democratic.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr diaz de mera garcía consuegra. improving communications between judicial authorities and ensuring that requests for information on criminal convictions between member states are properly and comprehensively answered is essential. the opening of frontiers not only means the free movement of honest citizens but also of criminals who often escape the clutches of justice by taking refuge in other states where they commit further crimes. however, precisely because of the lack of information exchange, neither recidivism nor the real danger is given due consideration. in particular, as daily news reports show, sex offenders and other extremely dangerous individuals benefit from the lack of an effective information exchange system and take advantage of the limits imposed on the union's current competences.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs laperrouze. the european strategy and action for the protection of water must be strengthened. i believe that specific measures are needed to combat water pollution caused by individual pollutants, or groups of pollutants, which pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment. this proposal aims to ensure a high level of protection in view of the risks posed by these priority substances (and certain other pollutants) to the aquatic environment and sets environmental quality standards to this end. i welcome the different considerations of biological standards and specificities. i also commend the rapporteur on her approach to the problem, which is often highly technical and complicated.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the good intentions of the itre committee, which has very much welcomed the position taken by the morgan report, to which i should like to extend my congratulations on the excellent work done by the honourable member, i am sorry to note that positions have recently emerged which, in my view, are intended to alter the good that has been achieved in the committee. i refer to the conclusions reached by the council, which leave little room for a concrete breakthrough in the creation of a competitive and competitive energy market. the council proposes the "ito" model, which is very similar to the third way. i do not think that this is consistent with the work of the itre committee, which overwhelmingly supported full ownership unbundling and complete opposition to the establishment of alternative regimes. not to mention the agency's marginal role. and then i wonder: why create an agency if it is to play only an advisory role? if we were to go beyond the current heterogeneity and diversity of the regulatory frameworks, following the council, we would make the situation worse and create even more distortions. i hope therefore that parliament will exercise its vote of conscience and adhere to the line taken by mr morgan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this package comes to parliament in the midst of the great challenge that energy represents for the future of our society. the unsustainable, unstoppable rise in oil prices, the perverse effects of the use of biofuels on food availability and the great energy hunger of the developing countries tell us that action by the european union is no longer just a necessity but an indispensable one. first of all, we need a regulatory framework which will finally create a european electricity and gas market, a market which is able to regulate itself with balance, which has national and european regulators, which ensures competitiveness, openness, transparency and efficiency also for consumers, which allows large companies to remain strong and at the same time new players to be born and grow, which moves forward and not backwards. we hope that unbundling for electricity will not be like the shrimp, that is to say, that it will fall behind the good practices already in place in many countries of grid separation. a market which provides certainty for investment and operators but also real opportunities for consumers, whether they are companies or individuals. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that we really need to strengthen the consumer's role by providing certainty, guarantees and fair prices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that in a europe which is being hit day by day by inflation and by a galloping cost of living due in large part to the price of energy, it is absolutely incumbent on us to speak of a european charter of consumer rights, and i share the report and i thank both the honourable member and, of course, the commission for this. it is right to stress that energy supply is an indispensable precondition for participation in economic and social life. despite the fact that legislation is already in force, the rights of citizens are often not respected in terms of prices, tariffs and transparency, and discriminatory rules often prevent the comparison of tariffs. i can only hope that joint action by the union and the member states, always respecting - as mrs de vits' excellent report also emphasizes - the essential principle of subsidiarity, is essential. the adoption of the third package, in my view, also serves to ensure better protection for consumers and small and mediumsized professional users.
the debate is closed. the vote on the morgan, vidal-quadras and chichester reports will take place on wednesday 18 june 2008. the vote on the de vits report will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to say at the outset that i respect the honourable members’ opinions and i wish to repeat that this decision has not been taken lightly. there has been an exhaustive discussion in the college. secondly, i want to clarify once again that we are not putting aside our hygiene regulations. as i think i mentioned, efsa said that this decontamination with amt substances can only be allowed if the hygiene regulations are applied, by whoever produces the chicken. so in conjunction with preventive measures at farm level, cleanliness of the animal sent to slaughter, hygiene measures and control procedures based on the haccp principles at slaughterhouse level, all these have to be applied. i must tell you when the americans heard about all these conditions, they were very displeased but we told them that these conditions cannot possibly be withdrawn. the second thing i want to clarify is that the proposed measures would not be applicable only for american chicken, but will be allowed for our producers as well, so we are not differentiating between foreign producers and our own. as i said, this decision now lies with the council and from my experience in the agricultural council, where i was present, it does not seem very likely that we shall have a positive reply.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has figures which show that more than 8 000 people are killed and 300 000 injured on the roads of the european union every year. this is an intolerable situation and that is why we have been working hard for some years to make road traffic safer. the european parliament adopted a proposal for a pedestrian protection directive a few years ago, which was then adopted in 2003. this was one of the first pieces of legislation in the world to be specifically designed to protect pedestrians. this legislation has obliged manufacturers to design new vehicles more pedestrian-friendly and to demonstrate this in appropriate tests. since then, legislation has been adopted, not least under pressure from the european parliament, to counter the danger posed by frontal protection bars to unprotected road users. the existing legislation on pedestrian protection recognises that it may be difficult to meet the requirements laid down therein. the commission has undertaken to examine the feasibility of these requirements and the possibilities of using new active safety systems. the commission has commissioned a study to this end, the results of which you are aware, and this study confirms the assumption that in some respects the requirements could not be met and that active safety systems are also suitable for improving pedestrian protection. the commission has therefore put forward the proposal which you are debating today, and that is a proposal for a combination of passive safety systems with a brake assistant, the installation of which should be made compulsory. this will provide an even higher level of protection. the commission estimates that the proposal will result in about 1100 fewer deaths on our roads each year. the commission will of course continue to work on the implementation of similar rules at international level once the proposal has been adopted. let me mention a few key elements of the proposal: the commission's proposed regulation sets achievable requirements for passive safety and makes it compulsory for vehicles to be equipped with an active safety system, known as brake assist. the commission has also proposed that the rules on pedestrian protection should now also apply to off-road cars, so-called suvs. this combination will significantly improve the safety of unprotected road users. the regulation summarises the tests required for vehicles and frontal protection buckles to demonstrate adequate protection of pedestrians. the requirements to be met by the tests shall be laid down in implementing measures to this regulation. the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include active systems, which it considers can bring significant safety benefits now and in the future, and to remove the weight limit for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to which the regulation is intended to apply. i should like to thank in particular your rapporteur, mr ferrari, for his efforts to ensure that the proposal is revised and adopted by consensus. this is how we have managed to reach a consensus on this proposal. the report by mr ferrari supports the commission's proposal, for which i am very grateful, and the amendments you have proposed will indeed help to clarify certain points. mr ferrari, you propose to continue to monitor and examine the use and improvement of passive safety systems and the possible use of new active safety systems and then, if necessary, to propose amendments to the existing legislation. the commission is willing to do so and will do so. other amendments are intended to ensure that the requirements of the regulation become applicable to the vehicles concerned as early as possible and to allow manufacturers sufficient time to make the necessary design changes. the fact is that for a whole series of european vehicles the new requirements mean that substantial changes have to be made to the design of the vehicles, so that major design changes are necessary. i am pleased to inform you that all the amendments proposed in mr ferrari's report are acceptable to the commission. the commission is confident that the proposal can now be adopted at first reading, given the importance of the regulation for improving road safety and the timetable for introducing the tests provided for in it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have reached the final stage of this regulation on the protection of pedestrians and vulnerable road users. the aim of this regulation is to transform the safety requirements for pedestrians and other vulnerable road users in the event of injuries due to a collision with a motor vehicle. the scope of this regulation is significant because it absorbed two previous directives, one from 2003 and the other from 2005. the first directive set out the safety requirements for cars, which were to be implemented in two stages. the first phase started in 2005 and the requirements of the second phase have not been technically feasible for all vehicles. the second directive concerns the use of frontal protection systems on vehicles and sets out various levels of protection for vulnerable road users in the event of a collision with vehicles equipped with such systems. among the most sensitive points i would mention the bas, brake assist system: it is a system that will reduce road deaths by 35%. but the biggest victory was probably to have achieved the application of this instrument within 24 months of the entry into force of the regulation for all categories of cars, from small commercial vehicles to suvs and larger vehicles which are often, because of their large mass, those which will cause the greatest physical damage to citizens. it was not easy at first, partly because the car industry needs industrial, physiological time to implement certain measures. but i am glad that the issue and the sensitivity of the matter have been understood by all parties and i appreciate the efforts made to put this system into practice. a second aspect of the regulation was that of frontal protection systems. the 2005 directive will be absorbed by this regulation and therefore cars that decide to fit so-called 'bul-bars' will not be type-approved if the safety requirements for frontal protection systems do not guarantee the same level of safety and therefore for vehicles without frontal protection systems. i am aware, however, that we have certainly done a great deal, but much more can be done, particularly as research will increasingly be directed towards improving the safety of pedestrians and vulnerable road users. i have felt the need to leave a door open for improvements to this text. i am referring in particular to collision avoidance systems. there are currently no effective articulation systems for pedestrian safety on the market, but in a few years they could be developed. that is why it provides that if, five years after the entry into force of this regulation, as the commissioner said, the industry is able to present passive safety systems to ensure the safety of pedestrians, the commission will have to submit a new text to parliament and the council which takes account of the technical arrangements. the problem of security is very much felt in europe and i have personally been personally committed to sending a strong message to all the citizens of the european union. the very delicacy of the matter led me to ensure that the regulation was adopted at first reading, avoiding a second reading with the council which would have had the sole consequence of pushing back the date of entry into force of the regulation too much. this position was also shared by my colleagues on the committee on transport. all the amendments tabled were aimed at protecting pedestrians and vulnerable road users in the first place. i hope, therefore, that this regulation will be the first strong signal from the european parliament to the european parliament to adopt ever more stringent rules on road safety in europe, showing that europe is united, alive and close to its citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, to clarify: unfortunately, there are a lot more than 8,000 people who die on our streets every year. the figure of 8,000 refers to road deaths among the most vulnerable groups, namely pedestrians and cyclists. it also covers the year 2004 and applies to the eu-25. so there's more of them. secondly, i agree with those who say that much more can be done to protect this most vulnerable group, through measures in the field of traffic management, traffic safety, traffic infrastructure, traffic rules. the commission fully agrees with this and supports it. but we are talking about the technical possibilities that the motor vehicle itself offers. so thirdly: the high-level group cars 21, which discussed and made recommendations on the future of the european automotive industry, was absolutely clear that the european automotive industry can only succeed in the long term if it offers not only the best technically and cleanest cars in the world, but also the safest cars. the measures we are taking here today are therefore supported by the european car manufacturers. i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. we must keep a close eye on the technical possibilities. i have seen the technology of the future in development and have been able to test it in some vehicles. in some models of the supercar class, these new technical possibilities such as automatic distance control and automatic obstacle detection are already available. but they are not yet available to the masses. but you can already see where the journey is going and that in a few years we will be able to talk about the next steps. i thank you for the broad support that the commission's proposal has in this house. i believe that we are making a very useful and very important contribution to road safety in europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first of all like to thank those who have spoken, also because i believe that this is a joint effort and i believe that it shows the validity of the fact that parliament, but especially the commission, have managed to put together a proposal which i believe, in the present circumstances, is quite significant and important. also because the big problem i wanted to give an answer to the first intervention is not increasing the weight of the machines, making the machines better. in fact, machines have been getting lighter and lighter for years, partly because technology, science, research has brought us to this system. i think the most important thing here is that 80 percent of the fatal accidents happen in the city centers, which is 35, 40, 50 kilometers per hour. it means that the problem is not just on the highway with the speed, the problem is that many vulnerable deaths happen right in the population centers, at 25 miles an hour. it means that we must find technical systems which will also allow us, in the event of an accident, to do as little damage as possible. that is why i think the second aspect is important and i must therefore thank the commissioner and the commission for the willingness they have shown to put such a system into this regulation. the other basic concept, i wonder: what does 300,000 accidents cost to the coffers of the mutual funds or the hospitals, to the health of each individual state? what's the price? that is why, here too, if there are fewer accidents there is also less system of debts of payments, especially of hospitals and especially of care. plus, if someone is injured at 70 or 80 percent, that means there's a pension to be maintained and so on. that is why i believe that the european parliament, but especially the commission, have seen fit to make this regulation so that it will work in all the member states and that it will see technology research in particular giving that space within five years when the council can see whether technology has made further progress, it can also see that that system can also be changed. that is why i say to you and thank all those who have spoken, i thank the president and i believe that the vote in favour tomorrow is a success for the european parliament and especially for those who have worked in these times.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. we have always said that what the european union needs is a short constitution, with a binding charter of rights, democratic and transparent decision-making procedures, limited but real powers and adequate economic resources. a constitution, ladies and gentlemen, drawn up by this parliament or by a constituent assembly, to be defended with strength and conviction, without hypocrisy, to be ratified by parliament or by a european referendum. i respect, i have great respect for the will of the irish people, but no one will ever convince me that a referendum in which half the voters have participated is more democratic than a parliamentary ratification. if the majority of peoples and states vote yes, we go ahead, and those who vote no can happily stay out and negotiate, as the spinelli treaty said in 1984, 'a new and less close system of relations'. what happened in those years? the member states and the commission have chosen the path of a complicated, contradictory, difficult-to-sell treaty, negotiated in the last phase in secret, in haste, and made even less readable by exceptions and protocols, and have confirmed the obligation to ratify unanimously, in perfect accordance with the spanish complex of the dog and the orc, which neither eats nor lets eat. as if that were not enough, the european union continues to approve wrong, weak policies, such as yesterday's jackson directive, today's weber directive, which are incapable of offering a positive and hopeful perspective, where everything from workers' rights to environmental rights to those of migrants is finding ever more restricted spaces, where industrial lobbies have more say than citizens, where the european interest is nowhere to be found, buried by the cries of this or that government, where the right to choose and individual freedoms or the arrival of new europeans is experienced as an intolerable attack on the identity of peoples who, like the italian and the irish, have migrants scattered throughout the world. it is possible and perhaps even desirable that the countries which have yet to ratify will do so. it is possible that the irish government will make some brilliant proposals. but the diplomatic solution is not enough! the diplomatic solution is not enough. it is now more than ever necessary to say loud and clear that the europe of governments, of opacity and of uncertainty is the one that has lost. the one that rejected the constitution and continues to make the wrong policies, of conservation, of nationalist closure, of selfishness; the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the european convention on human rights, which has killed the spirit of the 2003 european convention in order to agree on a positive but minimal and soulless text. but this does not make a more democratic and more capable europe less necessary. what is needed today is an initiative from the political forces and those member states who are convinced of the need for a more efficient, more democratic, more cohesive europe, since it is no longer necessary, no longer possible, to continue with the treaty of nice. an initiative where there's no room for those who don't want to move forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the irish referendum is of no consequence, why did it take place? why did you give yourself this plebiscite opportunity as we have heard? it is a serious matter when the possibility and the importance of people expressing themselves freely in the way the irish have done is denied in a parliament! this vote is simply a beautiful tombstone, with a celtic cross on it, on the prospect of the european superstate which our peoples do not like. it does not like the selling-off of political and even monetary sovereignty. well, it is a prospect which opens up the best of hopes for those of us who, like the irish people, strongly believe in a europe of the peoples and regions. that is why we in padania are also calling for the referendum, even though the treaty is obviously not recognised on the legal level, it is stopped. it has stopped this incredible process of getting a treaty on the future of our peoples approved by parliamentary votes, excluding the peoples and citizens. fortunately, there are free people who have a sense of their own freedom in their dna. maybe it's because she won it by fighting that she has this strength. it is time to say what this vote really means, that it is enough for the eurocrats in brussels who want to build a superstate that is far from the interests and souls of the citizens. we padanians feel all irish today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the council meeting tomorrow, the european council - the president-in-office said so earlier, president barroso said so - has a number of items on the agenda and not just the result of the referendum in ireland. but it is obvious that this subject has occupied most of the debate this morning. it's a relevant fact. various reasons have been given and analysed for irish citizens giving this answer, which is to say, with a slight deviation from the yes answer. i think that, among the many things that have been said, we must deal concretely with the question of why certain responses, these irish ones in particular, and then how to proceed. a concrete examination - i repeat, a lot has been said - i think it has to be seen in the fact that european citizens are not informed. it's a little bit everybody's fault, it's a little bit our fault, it's a little bit the governments' fault. in general it has been said - i agree - that when there are positive effects, the credit is with the governments, when there are negative or objectionable effects, the blame is always with europe. that's exactly what it is. but nobody is forcing anybody, mr president, president of the council, commission, nobody is forcing anybody to stay in europe. i believe that the result of the irish referendum must be respected. but we must also respect the wishes of 26 other member states, 18 at the moment, 26 soon. i believe that no one can be forced in any way to be in a cage that does not suit him. europe must move forward, europe cannot be stopped. tomorrow, from my point of view - and i conclude as president - the european council must clearly decide on a new strategy - and the heads of state and government can do so - a new strategy that those who want to stay are staying, but europe must progress in the general interest.
the chairman of the council. - the word that was heard most often in this room today, and also read most often, was respect. i think i'm allowed to add that we have to respect some facts as well and i'd like to point out the following. firstly, the ratification of the new treaty on european union is the exclusive competence of the member states. it's exclusive. the council has no role in these proceedings, much less the presidency. the following fact: each member state carries out this procedure in accordance with its own rules, which it establishes independently and sovereignly. and with that, i come to what may be the most important point. some member states have ratified or are about to ratify the treaty through their parliaments, and one is subject to a referendum. but that doesn't mean there's anything wrong with parliamentary ratification. i firmly reject the claims of those who believe that parliamentary ratification is incomplete or less democratic than a referendum. that's not true, that's not true, there's nothing wrong with parliamentary ratification. from the point of view of the european union, it is the equivalent of any other democratic process. third fact: each member state speaks for itself. the irish voters have voted for ireland, they have not voted for any other member state. this means that every other member state has the same right. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of lisbon and the treaty of lisbon. those who say that the lisbon treaty is dead, those who demand that the ratification process be stopped as of now, are denying the right of member states to withdraw, the same right that they so vehemently defend in the case of ireland. (applause) i would like to thank you. fact number four: we've been in this situation before, and we've found a way out. we will do so again on the basis of the reasons for this rift, but the bureau does not wish to speculate on them. the presidency does not wish to go into whether the contract was perhaps overcomplicated, whether there was something wrong with the communication, or whether there might have been, as mr de rossa has pointed out, a lot of lies in this matter. no, we will leave it to our irish colleagues to analyse the reasons for this outcome and also to propose their own vision of a possible outcome. but this way out, i'm sure we'll find it. we will. and the european council meeting tomorrow is the beginning of this road to finding a way out. and one last fact: the agenda for this morning's sitting is not the outcome of the irish referendum, but the preparations for the european council. the presidency will lead the discussions in the european council in such a way that it will be clear that europe has not stopped, that europe is moving forward, and that we will therefore also address a number of other topics in line with the agenda. we will discuss the problem of food and oil prices, we will discuss economic, social and environmental issues, we will discuss international development challenges, we will discuss the question of the western balkans. and here again i answer mr titleyu: there are no direct implications for the enlargement policy of the european union, it will continue and so will the european neighbourhood policy and other policies. i thank all of you, especially those who have expressed their views on these other subjects, and i look forward to a successful european council. (applause) i would like to thank you.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members for all their very interesting contributions. of course this is the right arena for a debate on democracy and respect for votes. the irish voted ‘no’, so why is it then not over? why does the eu not just say, ‘the treaty is dead: let us move on’? why is it that some people and some member states insist on carrying out their own ratification procedures? why is it that we insist on coming back to the reasons why we started this whole debate on a new treaty for the european union? i hope you will allow me to say a few words about this because, do not forget, the european leaders have invested a lot of political capital in this whole procedure. it has taken a long time and a lot of energy to discuss the underlying issues and the problems behind the need for a new treaty to design a new machinery for a european union that has changed so dramatically in a short period of time. let me just mention three reasons why we think a new treaty is needed. firstly, it would give the charter of fundamental rights legally binding force. europe is not only about the internal market – as somebody said here – but also about the rights of persons and the rights of workers. a second reason is, of course, that we would like to be able to speak with one single strong voice in the world, to be stronger on the international scene, and to do that on the basis of our values. we would like to stand up on the international scene, to fight for sustainable development, to discuss oil prices, conflict prevention and other important issues. this is one of the reasons behind the discussion on a new treaty. the third reason is, of course, to make the european union more democratic. how ironic it is, for those who talk about respecting the ‘no’ and about the outcome, that the treaty would actually give more power to the directly elected european parliament. it would mean more involvement of the national parliaments and would mean that the council has to hold its deliberations in public, with the citizens’ initiative as one of the important elements in a chapter on participatory democracy, which is a new improvement in the treaty. the t-shirt party up there have the text ‘respect the “no”’. my idea of doing that includes knowing the concerns of the irish people. it is understanding why they voted ‘no’. they have made their own interpretations but i think it is very important that the irish government, with the help of our eurobarometer opinion polls, can better understand what the concerns are and whether we can do something about them. is that not the idea of democracy? that is the way forward – to understand their arguments, to work with the other member states and also to get their respect for the problems that we can, hopefully, solve together. as we did after the ‘no’ vote in the french and dutch referendums, we have already carried out a eurobarometer survey, which i think will also help better to understand the challenges of any referendum. carrying out a referendum has its upsides but also its downsides – or rather, from a democratic point of view, challenges. after the voters have been presented with such a complex wide text as a new international treaty, of course there is room for different interpretations of the results. we need to understand better what the irish said, what they are afraid of and what they hope for. i already understand from the preliminary results that this is not a general ‘no’ to europe. it is also understanding and respecting their role in a european union. the upside of carrying out a referendum is that you also have to inform and communicate with citizens, with all the challenges that implies. i think that everybody can see that we also have to analyse what we can improve in terms of communication and information to citizens. i have always said that communication is a tool for democracy. this must be based on a right for citizens to know what goes on at european level, what is decided and how citizens can have a say. that work has to be further intensified and that is why also the commission will continue with what we started a couple of years ago, called plan ‘d’, as in debate, dialogue and democracy. that will be based on the idea of having a citizens’ ownership of eu policies...
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i understand that it is a confusing moment for so many members to be entering the chamber, but i would ask those who are entering not to stop and chatter because many members are interested in hearing the commissioner's conclusions.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am trying to summarise that we need to create a citizen’s ownership of eu policies, to make them understandable and relevant, and to make the eu institutions accountable and reliable to those they serve. we need to have a broad and permanent debate on the future of the european union between the democratic institutions in the eu and the citizens, both at national and eu level, and we need to empower citizens by giving them access to information so that they can have an informed debate on the european union. we have already proposed creating a framework for that, as jo leinen has already pointed to – and thank you for doing so. i thank mr lenarčič for trying to find a solution to that. i thank parliament for its support in trying to be more effective in communicating with citizens, because then we have to be serious about it and give it the resources and the framework we need to work in partnership with member states as well and, of course, to make our texts and our decisions as readable as possible. we had a debate on the consolidated treaty. it took the council too long to accept and to publish a consolidated treaty, but in the end it did so, and this is, of course, one tool with which we are able to reach out in a better way to our citizens. we have to continue to draw conclusions and learn the lessons also from the irish example, but to respect the ‘no’ vote. we do that best by actually knowing what were their concerns, by finding the solutions together and allowing the other member states also to have their say. i hope that this debate will also serve as an input to the leaders’ meeting tomorrow and on friday. i thank you very much for a good and constructive debate. (applause)
i thank the commissioner. the debate is closed. i would inform the house that mr hans-peter martin has asked to speak on a personal matter pursuant to rule 145 of the rules of procedure. in accordance with rule 145 of the rules of procedure, we shall give the floor to mr martin when the minutes of this sitting are adopted. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, with the vote in favour of the weber report, we have taken perhaps a decisive step towards drawing up a comprehensive framework for combating illegal activities, capable of meeting the security needs of many european citizens, who are often victims of crimes committed by non-community nationals. i have noted with pleasure that the european parliament, which is the guarantor of freedom and the rights of all men, has finally expressed its support for a common policy to meet the needs of the member states in the fight against illegal immigration. it was clarified that the objective is not only to establish cases of illegality but also to ensure clear, transparent and fast return procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, such as the ban on the use of the word 'cold' in the name of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that i always have the admiration of many colleagues, whom i thank of course for having waited to hear why i voted in favour of this weber report. mr president, i believe that we are facing something not unlike the barbarian invasions of the roman empire 2,000 years ago and beyond. then the roman empire was invaded by armed troops and the romans defended themselves with arms but succumbed, as we all know, with great disasters. today, when people from all the other countries of the world are coming to europe - and they are right, of course, because they are hungry, the barbarians were hungry too and wanted to feed at the fountains of rome - europe has the right to defend itself and to establish that those who want to invade our territories must be returned to the frontiers.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, i voted against the weber report because the amendments tabled by the pse were rejected. this very delicate matter undoubtedly needs to be regulated, also in view of the arbitrary interpretations which the states have often given. however, the present proposal has some unusual flaws. the treatment of unaccompanied minors, for example, is unacceptable, as is the failure to include guarantees for people in difficulty such as victims of trafficking, pregnant women, the elderly and the handicapped. the assumption that the period of detention can be extended without the 'administrative' cooperation of the state of origin is also absurd. the sudanese refugees, for example, will see their situation conditioned by the efficiency of the municipal registry offices. we needed rules that were certain to ensure the safety of citizens, not rules that were oppressive and offended the dignity of people. europe has written a bad page in its history today.
in writing. - today, with the positive vote on the weber report, we have perhaps taken a decisive step towards drawing up a comprehensive framework for combating illegal activities which can meet the security needs of many european citizens, who are often victims of crimes committed by non-community citizens. i am pleased to note that the european parliament, the guarantor of freedom and the rights of all men, has spoken in favour of a common policy to meet the needs of the member states in the fight against illegal immigration. it was clarified that the objective is not only to establish cases of illegality but also to ensure clear, transparent and fast return procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, such as the ban on re-entry, but also to help children. these measures require that human rights be observed in the reception centres. the fight against illegal immigration is fought above all by seeking agreements with the countries of origin, which can no longer remain passive in the face of a tragedy that is not only national but also european, and by sending a strong signal to those who are preparing to enter europe illegally. our continent is not a conquest ground for anyone and beyond rights there are duties to be respected.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues on the libe committee on the compromise reached with the council. this is the first time that the union has succeeded in establishing common rules for the return of third-country nationals who are staying illegally on its territory. it is commendable that the objective of the directive, in ensuring common and transparent return procedures, is to ensure humane treatment of those concerned and to improve cooperation both between national authorities of migrants and between member states, including through the establishment of a re-entry ban, valid throughout the union, not exceeding five years. voluntary return, the duration of temporary custody with the modulation provided for in different cases, the organisation of detention centres, the prohibition of collective returns, the special protection to be given to minors and vulnerable persons in adopting a return decision and the maintenance of family unity are all aspects which positively characterize the proposal for a directive, as well as free legal assistance, if required, to formalise the appeal against the expulsion decision. i voted in favour of this measure, in the knowledge that common and transparent rules will help to combat illegalities better and will help to give greater security to citizens, and i reiterated once again that on common problems, such as those linked to immigration, europe must behave in a clear way, which will ensure that reception and legality are inseparable concepts.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr weber. europe is finally beginning to tackle the problem of illegal immigration in a responsible and effective way. the return directive is a first step towards a policy of serious action against illegal immigration. the illegal immigrants must be forced to leave europe, subject to minimum standards to ensure humane treatment of the persons concerned. as we have always maintained, illegal immigration is a very serious problem and it should be left to the individual states to deal with it. however, this is often a european problem, and not all the responsibility and costs can be shifted to a few countries, italy being the first.
in writing. − i consider this report another positive step forward in assisting pedestrians in the eu from the many injuries and fatalities caused by motor vehicle accidents. indeed, 40 000 citizens die each year. improvements to vehicle design and improved car systems, including the pedestrian ‘crumple zone’ at the front of a car, are positive moves which need to be encouraged. removal of bull-bars from vehicles for which they are not necessary or not intended – non-farm-working vehicles, for example, – is another instance of how the eu can be consistent as regards pedestrian-friendly enhancements. i will support these issues in this vote and i consider it vital for pedestrians across the eu that more is done to improve the safety of pedestrians.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr ferrari. i agree with the aim of this proposal to strengthen community requirements to increase the safety of pedestrians and other vulnerable users in the event of injuries due to a motor vehicle collision. i believe that both in terms of time and in terms of the technical adaptation of the vehicles, the appropriate devices can be built and put into operation in a short time. in particular, i welcome the introduction of the requirement to equip vehicles with a braking assistance system (bas) which will help to reduce the number of vehicle-pedestrian collisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the jäätteenmäki report on the statute of the european ombudsman. as a member of the european parliament's committee on petitions, i have seen that a large and growing number of citizens are turning to the community institutions to claim that the member states are not complying with eu rules. very often petitions to parliament, which are examined by the committee responsible, do not meet the eligibility requirements. and from there i go back to a nodal aspect: the ombudsman's office must do more and better work on external communication to citizens. the very existence of the ombudsman is often unknown to the ordinary citizen, whereas he could indeed be one of the most functional and efficient links with the institutions. the statute we are voting on today provides new instruments to make the ombudsman's work more effective. we in this house have the task of monitoring the results.
the chairman of the council. − the council is aware of the consequences of rising prices for european citizens, and of the negative impact of these prices on the european economy. this pressing issue has been discussed at several recent council meetings. it will also be discussed by the heads of state and government at the meeting that begins tomorrow. analysis of the causes of high oil prices suggests that they are structural. it is not expected that oil production could keep pace with the continuously increasing demand. the causes of high oil prices have been well presented by the european commission in its recent communication, so i will not go into detail. the consequences of such oil price movements are reflected in higher inflation, higher household costs and problems in many sectors in the union: agriculture, fisheries, transport and various industries. assessing that the reasons for the increase in oil prices are structural and that this trend is likely to continue, we need to look for long-term solutions within the union: promoting competitiveness in energy markets, increasing the transparency of the oil market and, above all, improving energy efficiency and diversifying the energy supply. on energy efficiency, the european council in march last year set a target of 20% energy savings by 2020. the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, adopted in 2006, also contributes to this objective. but legislation alone cannot achieve everything. we can do a lot with more rational households, more rational businesses. the council and parliament may also encourage this by regularly raising awareness. the second measure mentioned concerns the diversification of energy supply. i would remind you that in this context the spring european council last year adopted an action plan for an energy policy for europe. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the aid is not limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of the aid. i mention all this because i want to emphasise that the union has already taken some necessary measures over the past years to reduce the sensitivity of the european economy to rising oil prices in the longer term. of course, these existing policies will need to be upgraded in the future. at its last meeting, the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) endorsed, inter alia, the 2005 manchester agreement, according to which, in response to high oil prices, tax and other policies that distort competition and prevent economic operators from making appropriate market adjustments should be avoided. measures to mitigate the effects of higher oil prices on the poorer sections of the population must be short-term and targeted so as not to cause market disturbances. the g8 finance ministers also spoke about rising oil prices last week. among other things, they stressed that this was a global problem and that solutions had to be sought globally. i would also like to mention that at the general affairs council meeting this week, this monday, we approved the 18-month programme for the next three presidencies, and among the priorities in this programme is also the effective fight against high food and oil prices. let me conclude: we need coordinated policies to tackle these challenges, both within the european union and at international level. we must take measures with a view to avoiding creating new imbalances and problems. we are of course counting on the constructive cooperation of this parliament in the further handling of these pressing issues, particularly in the examination of legislative proposals.
member of the commission. − madam president, for me each day starts with a routine check of oil prices, and in recent times the news has been more or less in one direction: oil prices are getting higher and higher. over the last three years, prices for oil in us dollars have more than tripled. for the eu, with a 37% share in energy consumption coming from oil, it is easy to understand the actual and potential impact of the high oil prices on our economies and citizens. we have a constant decrease in our own production – and it is still substantial – but we have this decrease since the late 1990s. a continuing increase in imports consequently makes our oil dependency high and the amount that we are paying for buying energy resources is increasing all the time. this has a direct effect on our citizens and businesses. increased oil prices create inflation and that impact can be noticed already. the contribution of energy to the increase in the price index in the fourth quarter of 2007 averaged 0.8% in the euro area. this means direct, tangible impacts on households and on a lot of economic sectors, not least those who cannot pass on the price of energy to the final consumer. the increase in prices of motor and heating fuels for households between april 2007 and april 2008 exceeded by far the overall growth of consumer prices. as an example, the prices of transport fuels rose on average by 12.7% as opposed to the inflation average of 3.6%. our most vulnerable citizens are again amongst those most affected. back in september 2005, i was already talking to you about rising oil prices and i presented a five-point plan. since then we have been working out a whole series of new proposals to begin to reply to the challenge of high and growing oil prices: on energy efficiency, on cars, on fuel quality, on renewable energy. as a result of these policies, we can expect a gradual decrease in oil consumption in the eu over the coming years. we now have roughly more or less stable consumption in the last three years and the beginning of the switch to cleaner, more efficient transport that uses renewable energy sources. whilst more needs to be done, and certainly we should not underestimate the problems resulting from high energy prices for our citizens, particularly the most vulnerable households as well as many businesses, this already provides a good basis on which to further develop the best possible policy response to the challenge. indeed, the fact that oil prices have continued to rise does not mean that our policies have failed. i am convinced that without our ambitious climate and energy goals the situation would be even more difficult. but it is clear from the latest trends that we need to further step up our efforts. so let me now consider the long-term factors affecting the oil market. put simply, we are leaving the era of cheap oil, and cheap energy in general. global energy demand is growing and the international energy agency estimates that it could increase by more than 50% by 2030. in particular, emerging economies are consuming more and more energy. on the other hand, it is far from clear whether there will be sufficient oil production to satisfy global demand. experts say that geologically there are still enough resources underground for the next 40-50 years. as the international energy agency has stated, it is far from certain whether the producing countries have the ability or willingness to step up production to meet seemingly inevitable and long-term continued increases in global oil demand. the era of cheap energy is over, at a time when in any event we have an absolute obligation to future generations to move to clean, carbon-free energy sources for heat, power and transport due to climate change. this is the challenge facing us. this requires a clear response. but, before coming to the long-term and medium-term measures, i would like to mention some short-term steps alleviating the impact on consumers. the effects on the most vulnerable groups must be mitigated in the shorter term, where necessary through social measures. support to the poorest households can be justified and needed, but needs to be targeted. at the same time we should be very cautious as regards changes in the taxation regime. experience has shown that such measures, whilst in many ways politically very attractive, in fact only make the longer-term transition to dealing with high energy prices and saving carbon more difficult. it is far better to target help where it is really most needed. in terms of further developing the eu’s long-term approach to meeting the challenge, our existing energy policies are viewed by many as a ‘world leader’. the commission has always insisted that its recent climate and energy package had the combined objectives of sustainability, security of supply and competitiveness, a fact becoming clearer by the day. let me recall in more detail the most important elements of these policies, already in place or under examination in this house: the draft directive guaranteeing 20% renewables in our final energy consumption by 2020; the new rules to expand and strengthen the eu’s emissions trading system (ets), ensuring that we meet our target of a 20% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 and establishing the ets as driver for change; the proposal for reducing co2 emissions from cars and the fuel quality directive that will oblige oil suppliers to progressively reduce their co2 and energy consumption in the products they sell; and, most importantly, the energy efficiency action plan, covering all sectors, at all levels, from the international partnership for energy efficiency cooperation to the covenant of mayors at the local level, to specific measures such as labelling of consumer goods or requirements for the energy efficiency of buildings. practically all the measures mentioned in the energy efficiency action plan are cost effective at usd 60 per barrel of oil. this represents a start, but we need to do more. the commission will therefore continue the work at international level, notably constructive dialogue between the main oil-producing and consuming countries, such as the jeddah meeting which will be convened this week in saudi arabia, or the eu-opec dialogue next week. it will scrutinise the functioning of the oil and petroleum markets in the european union and make suggestions for possible further policy action in the second strategic energy review later this year. it will assist oil-importing developing countries to mitigate short-term impacts of high fuel and food prices and to bring about structural improvements in their energy efficiency performance and the use of alternatives fuels. it will lead efforts in an increased drive for energy efficiency. this will remain my highest priority. this means better legislation internally in the eu. it also means pushing for a more effective international energy efficiency partnership, which was adopted last week at the g8 energy ministerial in japan on the initiative of the european union. the existing legislation on energy efficiency and the improvements that i will table over the coming months on buildings, labelling and minimum product standards are truly important, but have to be seen as only one of many measures needed. the real challenge is the effective implementation of energy efficiency policies at national, regional and local level throughout the european union. the commission will play a greater role in assisting member states in meeting this challenge. i shall mention biofuels, because this issue is often discussed. in the draft renewables directive we translate the commitment of the european council to ensure that 10% of eu transport is powered by renewable fuel by 2020 into practice. it should be noted that this 10% can be covered by biofuels or electricity from renewable sources, or by increasing energy efficiency in the transport fleet. i am convinced that the eu can and must generate the biofuels that it uses in a sustainable and responsible manner and not affect global food-production levels. this can be done in a sustainable way by using previous set-aside land in the eu, improving land yields in a sustainable way, investing in technology for second generation biofuels, and working together with developing countries to ensure that biofuels complement food production and not replace it. with such an approach, the development of alternative clean transport fuels must be part of the eu’s response to the challenges of oil prices and climate change. the european union will need to continue its international efforts and its dialogue with its main partners. the g8 last week and the jeddah meeting on oil prices this weekend show that the issue tops the political agenda. we should use the credibility we are building and lead international action to exploit energy efficiency potentials and clean energy production around the globe, and enable the functioning of global efficient and trustworthy commodity markets. however, action starts at home, and a renewed push for renewable energy and energy efficiency is beneficial not only for the climate but also for our economy. there is an energy future for all of us. this future will most likely be organised around different patterns of production, consumption and behaviour. as with climate change, action is needed now and the commission is fully involved in this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think we should follow the path proposed by mr audy. i do not think it is our job to create price control measures. i believe that the commissioner has outlined the line on which the european union can seriously focus, namely our development model, renewable energy and therefore the need and urgency to revise the objectives that have been set - 20% on energy, 10% on transport - to make them even more ambitious, to deal with them in even shorter time. unfortunately, as the gas policies on which we voted today show, it is the national states that are opposed to a genuine european policy of competition and a mix of energy sources. that's the problem. then there is obviously a matter of speculation that can be addressed. it is true that the national states are refusing to give the european union real power to regulate financial markets, but we are not asking europe to find shortcuts to solve the problems that national policies have created. renewable energy, long-term strategic plans: that's what we're asking for, faster than it's planned.
in writing. in four years the price of diesel in italy has increased by 240% due to heavy speculation by oil companies. this prevents the fleet, particularly the small-scale fleet, not only from carrying out its activity but also from recovering the high costs of its management. european shipping companies are collapsing and expensive diesel is eroding the few economic margins available to fishermen. france and italy have announced a joint initiative to obtain additional resources from the european union. in particular, the idea is to double the national threshold for de minimis aid to the sector. this would not, however, be sufficient to remedy the serious difficulties facing the fisheries sector, which is already in crisis. european fisheries commissioner joe borg believes that rapid aid is possible but also argues that the long-term solution to the sector's crisis lies in restructuring the fleet: it's smaller and less energy-intensive. the proposal to use less gas-guzzling vessels is acceptable, but there is still an urgent need to find fair solutions that will help fishermen to overcome the serious crisis and that will save many families from the risk of a terrible impoverishment.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the common position defined by the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the inland transport of dangerous goods (06920/3/2008 c6-0160/2008 2006/0278 (cod)) (rapporteur: bogusław liberadzki) (a6-0227/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the safety management of road infrastructure (com (2006) 0569 c6-0331/2006 2006/0182 cod)) (a6-0050/2008).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr liam aylward, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the future of the goat and sheep sector in europe (2007/2192 ((ini)) (a6-0196/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 june 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, dear commissioner, who is new to our group, ladies and gentlemen! we have here a report with a wealth of suggestions. i can certainly compliment the rapporteur, mrs gurmai, on the wealth of ideas that have flowed into this house to make road mobility more technically sophisticated. however, i must first of all make a comment on the terms 'intelligent vehicle', 'intelligent infrastructure' and 'intelligent safety'. i have already said in the committee on transport that i simply cannot accept the use of this term to refer to cars and roads. intelligentia, intellegiere, intelligence - these latin terms have to do with insight, knowledge, understanding. intelligence is shown in rational action. so it's a cognitive ability of humans, the ability to understand, to abstract and to solve problems and to apply knowledge. it is a pure linguistic nonsense to talk about intelligent cars and intelligent roads! in the explanatory memorandum to her report, ms gurmai writes: 'the ever-increasing volume of road traffic is leading to serious social and environmental problems: congestion of road networks and cities, environmental damage, impairment of public health, waste of energy, accidents and, above all, unnecessary loss of human life.' i agree with that. i also do not deny that sophisticated technology - as is mentioned throughout this document - can help to make transport safer and more environmentally friendly. but we are only doing a very limited job of solving the real social and environmental problems. i've been in a lot of classes lately. on occasion i have asked middle and high school students the question: what do you think is the main cause of the many accidents on the road? the first response was always 'excessive and dangerous speed and alcohol'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if rising fuel prices are a problem, if energy consumption as a whole must be reduced urgently, if we want to reduce the irresponsibly high level of co2 emissions, and if we want to do something about climate change, we will not achieve this with the philosophy of always more, always higher, always faster, always more refined, always more mobile, but rather with a different lifestyle, with slower, more modest, more economical! i have one particular point to object to. the rapporteur writes: 'affordability is a key issue for consumers. many consumers simply cannot afford the systems in question. therefore, intelligent transport systems must be affordable and widely available as soon as possible. the institute for environmental and climate change research in heidelberg calculated a few years ago that an average car in germany receives about 3,000 euros a year in state or taxpayer support, when all direct and indirect transport costs are taken into account. it is not possible to support environmental damage and health risks, but on the contrary, in accordance with the principle of cost-effectiveness, those who cause damage must pay. it is not only the construction and maintenance of roads that are cost factors, but also the basic consumption and the various damages caused to nature and man. i do not want to be misunderstood, but i am not against better technology, but i am against this blind belief in technology! if we want to subsidize mobility, we should first of all support rail and local public transport, cycling and walking - that would be smarter, healthier, safer and more environmentally friendly!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs gurmai on the many ideas she has put forward. i must say that there is a lot of human and artificial intelligence in this report. in italy, until recently, there was a television advertisement for progress that was chilling, showing the disappearance of an entire country, an entire commune, from the italian landscape, which was worth, demographically, the weight of those 40,000 european citizens who disappear from our europe every year. and so everything that is done with a view to a drastic reduction in the number of deaths, but also of non-deaths which have a huge social weight because so many people who remain disabled for life or with different levels of disability weigh on our social systems as well as on our consciences, so everything must be done in that light. i agree that the technology applied to vehicles and infrastructure is very important for safety - everything is essential, mr piskorski said, and mr kuc too in terms of safety and rescue - but it is also necessary, they said, that a driver be intelligent and educated. i think that we also need drastic measures to limit speed and to increase the measures in the case of driver liability, and i have to say that the new italian government is also giving some interesting answers. i wonder, for example, what criteria are used to market vehicles with unthinkable speeds and, to quote mr kusstatscher, if there is no intelligence on the part of the consumer driver, who wants to buy these types of vehicles and drive them in our cities, then it is the responsibility of those who administer and have the responsibility for choices regarding the freedom of the individual who must never limit the freedom of other individuals, which unfortunately in this case is often even physically eliminated.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is really not much to discuss in mr liberadzki's excellent report on the internal transport of dangerous goods. i voted for it in committee and i confirm my vote here. the more trade in goods increases between countries of the union and within the union, the more useful it is, in my view, that the conditions for these flows are the same, especially in terms of safety, but also in terms of controls and related administrative practices. it would be illogical to criticise or, worse, to reject such a technical text, on which the consultation of so many experts from the member states has been broadly and qualitatively informed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mr markov's report. i think the proposal is very organic and comprehensive in several respects, with the aim of considering safety at all stages of the life of a road infrastructure: from planning to design to operation. i agree with the principle of subsidiarity in the proposal, which leaves the choice of intensity of application in relation to 'road safety impact assessment', road safety audits and safety inspections to the member states. the adoption of a legislative instrument aimed at the safe development of the road network, even by means of a not too rigid approach, must therefore be considered a positive outcome, the effects of which will depend on the intensity of implementation chosen. however, i believe it is essential to provide for binding minimum standards which must be applied in all member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution on the strengthening of the european union's disaster response capacity. as a member of the development committee of this parliament i have had the opportunity to visit some of the poorest and most disaster-stricken areas in the world, sometimes affected (as in the case of the tsunami) by destructive natural events. i would like to emphasize the good work done by our development commissioner, mr louis michel, who has always been quick and effective in expressing the desire for solidarity and cooperation in the face of these sad circumstances. but as the resolution shows, the procedures provided for in our regulatory framework are still too cumbersome: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament is sending a clear signal in this direction today. now it's important to move from words to deeds.
in writing. - mr president, this resolution is a first response to the very serious crisis affecting the fisheries sector in our union as a result of the increase in oil prices. in the last few days i have personally visited several ports in my country and have come across a very difficult and complicated situation to which we must be able to make rapid and effective proposals. the abnormal rise in the price of diesel fuel threatens to bring an entire industry to its knees. the union has emergency funds for fisheries to be used in particularly serious contingencies. i would ask commissioner borg to take immediate action to see whether the commission should take action in this direction. deeds, not words. deeds, not promises. i have noticed a growing distrust of the european institutions among the workers. we have a duty to make up for this gap, but above all to assume our responsibilities in the face of an economic and social situation which is in serious danger of collapsing.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs zita gurmai, whom i congratulate on her excellent work. in particular, i support the 'esafety' initiative (www.esafetysupport.org) which brings together the european commission, public institutions, industry and other stakeholders to try to accelerate the development and deployment of 'intelligent integrated vehicle safety systems'. these systems use information and communication technologies with the aim of increasing road safety and reducing the overall number of accidents on our roads. esafety is the first step in the 'smart car' initiative launched by the european commission in 2006. i believe that this path must be pursued rapidly in order to foster the growth of a transport system which the commission hopes will be 'smarter, safer and cleaner'.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in the debate that we are going to have – i hope – we will be asking for an independent inquiry into the mass graves, for those sites to be protected and for an end to the harassment of the people carrying out this inquiry. i think there is absolutely no contradiction between this request for an urgent debate on the issue and the hearing that mrs flautre is organising for 16 july.
this point is closed.
the next item is the report by mr jutta haug, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2009 budget: first reflections on the preliminary draft budget for 2009 and the mandate for conciliation - section iii - commission (2008/2025) (a6-0262/0008).
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 108 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 july 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission on the creation of a database for roma fingerprints in italy, by monica frassoni, on behalf of the green/efa group (o-0076/2008 b6-0170/2008), the oral question to the commission on the creation of a database for the fingerprints of roma in italy, giusto catania, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0077/2008 b6-0451/2008), the oral question to the commission on the creation of a database for the fingerprints of roma in italy, by jan marinus wiersma, claudio fava, kristian vigenin, gianni pittella, adrian severin and katalin lévai, on behalf of the pse group (o-0078/2008 b6-0452/2008), the oral question to the commission on the creation of a database for the fingerprints of roma in italy, by viktória mohácsi, marco cappato, alexander alvaro, sophia in 't veld, sarah ludford, jeanine hennis-plasschaert, ignasi guardans cambó, adina-ioana vălean, renate weber and gérard deprez, on behalf of the alde group (o-0080/2008 b6-0453/2008).
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister maroni has called this debate grotesque, but the reality is that today he has stopped playing the cowboy and is trying to convince his european colleagues that it is all the fault of the press and the left and that his only aim is to do good for the poor gypsies, locked up in unlivable camps and that with the ethnic registration it will be possible to force all roma children to go to school and that therefore it is not necessary - nor does he want - to criminalise all the nomads. so this debate is grotesque. i don't agree with that. i believe that this debate, and the attention we have managed to generate together with many ngos, together with many colleagues of different nationalities - because this is not just an italian issue - and with many people simply concerned about the situation of rights, is important and is important precisely because we are doing it here in europe, and because it is a question of rights and citizens, and so today this also wants to be a small contribution to what is perceived today as a crisis of meaning on the part of europe. europe needs: it serves to curb cowboy attitudes and cruel and above all ineffective policies; the european union is fighting racism and discrimination, using existing laws and agreements that are the children of a bloody history. this debate serves to reiterate that there is no place for ethnic filings in europe: it is so true that today the government seems to be backing down on this and we welcome that if that is the case. the debate also serves to raise legitimate public doubts about the need for a state of emergency to be declared for 12 months in an advanced country of 58 million inhabitants, where the mafia controls 120 billion euros and a huge business and whole slices of the territory, where garbage kills one of the richest provinces in europe, and all this for the presence of 160,000 so-called "nomads", half of whom are italian citizens. we think this debate is important because with the threat of ethnic filing and the constant criminalization of the roma and sinti we will no longer be safe. the work of those who work with the roma and sinti communities, to get them out of a situation of marginalization, poverty and violence against women and children which are objective, which exist, and which i and none of us want to deny are an unbreakable knot, which cannot be separated at all if the situation remains as it is today. today we are discussing these problems, mr president, for the third time in a few months. i hope that the positive, friendly and constructive pressure which this debate also intends to exert will convince that part of my fellow countrymen, other european citizens, who are thinking of throwing everyone out and solving this problem of exclusion by violence and also by simplification and racism, which is a real economic problem and is also a cultural problem in our country and on our continent, that they will be convinced that this is not the way to go. i therefore invite you, commissioner, to make the most of the work that the commission does, the work that we as parliament do, and also the money that is given for that kind of positive policies, which are today little known, so hidden and swept away by a prejudice that resists, not only in italy but also in europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs mohácsi and mrs frassoni, mr wiersm, mr catani and all the other members for their questions. for the fourth time in this house, we have the opportunity to speak about the situation of roma in italy. i think that everyone in this house - across most political groups - will agree that the situation of the roma needs to be addressed by taking immediate and responsible action to overcome the social, economic and humanitarian crisis. the commission has received with considerable concern press reports that the italian authorities are taking the fingerprints of persons living in 'nomad camps' and that a database is to be created from them. in the meantime, the italian authorities have provided the commission with information on the general legal context. it follows from them that, under the state of emergency declared on 23 may, the decree of 30 may allows the mayors of rome, naples and milan to take certain measures. these measures also include 'identification and counting of persons, including minors, present in nomad camps'. it also provides that the measures implemented by the mayor must be implemented 'in accordance with the general principles of community law and directives'. the italian authorities state that these measures are taken in the interests of the people living in these camps, in particular to enable them to live in decent conditions. the commission notes the italian authorities' willingness to cooperate. this information is useful, but uncertainty remains as to the nature and real impact of the measures taken and their implementation. the taking of fingerprints and their storage in databases can only be carried out within a legal framework that strictly respects community legislation and fundamental rights. in this context, the commission requested clarification of the purpose of these activities, while respecting the principles of legality and proportionality in their implementation. the commission notes that the italian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in order to obtain a more precise picture of the legal framework in which these measures take place, the commission decided to write to the italian authorities to obtain additional information on this subject. on 7 july, the italian authorities sent the commission further information, which will be analysed. the commission is aware of the existence of social tensions in italy. at this forum, we discussed the situation of roma in italy and other countries in may. the commission stressed at the time that the real problems of poverty and social exclusion faced by roma in italy and elsewhere could not be ignored. it also underlined that this situation leads to human suffering and social tensions. to respond to this situation, it is necessary to combat crime and to find solutions that are truly relevant to the problems faced by roma, especially roma children, who are the first victims of poverty and social exclusion. roma need to be helped, not stigmatized. this is why the commission, in its report adopted last week, stressed the need for the european union, the member states and civil society to join forces to achieve effective coordination of their efforts. in conclusion, the commission, and in particular its vice-president jacques barrot, will remain in regular contact with the italian authorities, who have undertaken to provide a full report on the subject by the end of july. at the same time, the commission will continue to assess how member states have transposed directive 2004/38 of 29 april 2004 into their national law and how they are applying it in practice. i firmly believe that the italian government has the will to implement a policy of social inclusion in full respect of fundamental rights and community law.
before i give the floor to mr pittella, i must ask the colleagues who have shown the t-shirts: you don't wear but display as a flag or banner the t-shirts to withdraw them because our regulations are clear: annex 16 to rule 146 explicitly states that they cannot be tolerated in this way. i ask you to withdraw them or i shall be forced to have them withdrawn by the ushers or worse still to suspend the sitting. i therefore ask my colleagues to withdraw immediately the t-shirts which are being displayed as if they were posters. and to mr ferrari as well.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a minister of the interior of a european country cannot call a debate taking place in the european parliament grotesque. it is an insult to the dignity of the european parliament. we are not pleased that a measure of the italian government should be considered here. we do not see europe as the scapegoat for all national troubles, nor as the policeman to whom the president of the italian council is to be entrusted. we believe that even when we are in opposition in our own country, it is right to value and defend in international forums the right choices that italy makes. but the italian government and the minister of the interior should have looked for other ways, in full accordance with european standards, and informed the european commission beforehand, not too late. for years, attempts have been made to address the roma problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child labour, begging, racketeering, theft and other forms of pathological behaviour. but the solution is not ethnic filing, but a concrete policy that holds together the three pillars: citizenship, civility and security. the identification of roma children and not only roma children is a guarantee for those concerned and essential for the fight against racketeering and child trafficking but it cannot be done on an ethnic basis and with invasive methods such as fingerprints. we thank commissioner špidla for his commitment to give a european answer to a major european question and we ask him to make the measures taken by the italian government as clear as possible and to report to the european parliament. it is surprising that the third millennium, which should have been the dawn of a new alphabet of citizenship rights, should instead be the abyss of cultural revolution. the european institutions themselves should be calling for a halt to the widespread conformity and for the defence of the values of civilization which europe is bringing to the world.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the italian government will send all the information on the measure by the end of the month, as you said. but there is another point to be considered in advance, and that is the state of emergency. the european institutions must make that point. first of all: the council of europe should be informed in advance when a state of emergency is declared in cases such as these. we have no record of that being done. we ask you if you are informed and if this has been done. a state of emergency that is justified by natural disasters or catastrophes or events of this nature. but it is possible to define the colleague said earlier "previous provisions proposed by minister amato" but of course this is true, let's be clear: the non-government of the roma issue is not exclusive to the berlusconi government; it is the legacy of years, lustre of non-government of this problem. that is why it is unthinkable, intolerable today, to invoke a state of emergency which is not such. the state of emergency that exists today is, if anything, the absence of law and democracy in a country like italy, which is the country most condemned before the european court of human rights. this is the emergency: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the issue. there is a need to govern a problem. we govern through reception, we govern through integration, investing resources in this instead of wasting them as we do not use european funds, instead of relying on the technological illusion of biometrics to hide the inability to govern a problem like this.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate gives me the opportunity to put questions to the left, which has so boldly thought of using the european parliament, for the umpteenth time, to judge in a completely improper, pretext-based and pre-emptive way the application of an italian decree which is still in the process of being drawn up. okay, first question: where was the left, which has ruled italy for decades, when these camps were being set up and proliferating in conditions of total lack of the most basic hygiene and safety standards? i would also like to ask you whether you are not saddened by the silence of years and years, the indifference and hypocrisy of turning the other way, when obviously you had no eyes to see - let alone political interest - that dozens of children die every year from cold or burns because of the lack of security in these slums. you may not even be interested to know that in rome, where some 7,000 children live, millions of euros have been allocated for schooling: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the most deprived are not left behind. i wonder if you know or pretend not to know that education was entrusted, in a quasi-monopoly regime, to a few associations which, more than the best interests of the child, had public money at heart. i defend the right of the roma communities to be counted, as is the case for all italian citizens, because the census guarantees the right to health, social inclusion and schooling. i also defend the right of roma communities to verify their identity. of course, there is no general intervention: whoever is in good standing is not subject to checks. but a child who is not registered at birth or who has no recognizable identity becomes an invisible child, easy prey to all forms of exploitation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human organs, illegal adoption, sexual exploitation and child labour. this applies to all minors living in italy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the italian economy. finally, a few words on the title of your oral questions. not only is there no reference to ethnic groups in the ordinance, but there is no specific database, let alone a database on roma fingerprints. of course, if there are better proposals, they are welcome: we are open to constructive proposals. but you don't take lessons from someone who hasn't lifted a finger for years and years to solve a serious social emergency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly 70 years ago, on 14 july 1938, the fascist regime in italy issued the race decree, adapting it to german racial laws. we know the story: over 500,000 roma were killed in the death camps. it all started with a census. in italy, a real filing of all roma is in progress, including children, whose fingerprints are collected, and including community citizens and italian citizens themselves, despite their data, are already present in the register. the questionnaire used in naples, mr angelilli, contains questions on religion and ethnicity and is very similar to the one used in the vichy republic under nazi occupation. an elderly roma man, an italian citizen, who survived deportation to nazi death camps, has been registered in milan. what will be done with this data? today, in total indifference and silence, the committee on children in the italian parliament is chaired by alessandra mussolini, the granddaughter of the duce, a coincidence that strengthens the symbolic link between the present and a past that we thought we had definitively buried in italy and europe, and which instead today reappears in all its gravity. history certainly does not repeat itself but there is no doubt that the italian government has initiated racist procedures in clear contradiction to directive 43 of 2000 and directive 38 of 2004. i ask that parliament approve this resolution condemning the italian government and that the commission initiate an infringement procedure against italy as a matter of urgency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt: it is clear that the italian far left is now effectively governing this european parliament. in accordance with a bad practice which has become established, the parliamentarians of the extreme left and the greens continue to attack the italian government, using the strasbourg chamber. they were removed from the national political scene last april by popular will, and they find a backdrop in the socialist party and the liberal party to amplify their national lies. all of them are attacking the legitimate government of a large, strongly pro-european member state, which is supported by 60% of italians. and we are amazed at the results in ireland! the whole matter, mr president, commissioner šplida, concerns matters which fall within the national sphere of autonomy and not within the competence of the union. however, the italian government has continuously provided the commission with any clarification it has received. i would ask you, commissioner, to read the newspapers a little less and the documents that are sent to you by the italian government officially a little more. the ordinances do not concern roma, they do not concern fingerprint acquisition; the court of justice has already ruled that the provisions of the treaty on european union are not incompatible with the treaty on european union. we need to have certainty of the identity of people, so that we can allow access to schools, social services, health care and housing. the orders do not refer to ethnicity, they are not continuous in time, they do not cover the entire national territory but only three specific cases. the serious problem of the absence of identity documents was also pointed out by the council of europe's commissioner for human rights on 19 and 20 june. the aim is to achieve the signals permitted and required in many states and throughout europe for travel documents and residence permits and includes descriptive, photographic, typographic and anthropometric systems. there is the support of the italian judiciary, especially in relation to the world of minors, there is the use of the italian red cross in competition and so on. there are many other things, but i would like to say to my colleague that i would never have dreamed of referring to her state by talking about racism. i want to remind you that for 3000 years italy has been exporting culture and continues to do so. and that when italy had a deep social state, as it has today, many other states still lived in the trees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is serious that reasons of internal italian politics prevent us from taking a calm look at the necessary measures. it was said that no emergency was declared. i believe that the prodi government, through measures prepared by minister amato, has put in writing the urgency and the need for measures against the roma. the present italian government has not done so, and is merely carrying out a census. this is what the documents which were presented and examined by the european commission say, and the commission had no choice but to recognize the truth, because political speculation has one colour, truth has another. it's another hardness. they are erga omnes, they apply to everyone. perhaps, here, someone pretends not to know perhaps knowing the truth that in the nomadic camps there are minors who are ghosts: they have no identity and it is not a human right to have an identity? they do not have vaccinations, they do not have the opportunity to go to school, even if they want to go, because they are prevented from doing so and instead they are trafficked as we know well. no database has been set up. there is a very specific and specific commitment not to use it except within the limits of the privacy legislation. this is not a file that anyone can access: it's data that's only taken when it's needed. when they were taken by magistrates in juvenile courts, they were considered normal. finally, the government wisely decided to entrust the enforcement of these ordinances to the italian red cross. it is not the ss that goes into the camps, it is the italian red cross, known throughout the world for its expertise and sensitivity in helping the marginalized and persecuted of the world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the classification of a people on the basis of its ethnicity: this is, in short, the proposal to take the fingerprints of roma, including those of minors. this initiative by the italian government evokes dark times, it recalls tragic policies that europe has known in the past and that we would have liked to relegate, forever, to the history books. it is an odious act which constitutes a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the european convention on human rights. the minister of the interior shows that he is not even aware of the european directives when he states that the ordinance is in line with regulation 380 of 2008, which provides for the obligation to take fingerprints from all non-eu citizens. but the roma living in italy, and particularly the minors, are almost all italians or community citizens. if the problem to be solved is the inhumane conditions in the camps, the children forced to live with mice, as the minister says, then you should explain to us how fingerprinting can solve this problem, since the prefect of rome has also said that it is not necessary. if the italian government really cares about the conditions of children, it must take measures to ensure adequate health conditions in the camps, to promote social inclusion and integration, and to promote schooling and vocational training. the racial classification of an ethnic minority, on the other hand, risks jeopardizing the future of minors and any prospect of integration and, paradoxically, risks criminalizing the victims. what i'm saying is not the extreme left saying. in conclusion, then, christian family: "today, with fingerprints, a police state shows the most ferocious face to the little roma, who are italian citizens". "why", asks the paper, "is there not the same determination to fight true crime in large areas of the country? maybe because it's less politically rewarding?"
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we would have preferred not to have had to witness this debate tonight. the late retreat of minister maroni, who is kindling the fire of racism in italy and trying to put it out in europe, like an amateur fireman in front of an irritated commissioner barrot, is the only real grotesque situation we are witnessing in europe today. in italy, the roma emergency is mainly against the roma, mr angelilli, in rome, naples and also in milan. of course, there is a widespread demand for security because the state, faced with a common crime, like that of other european countries, does not respond with adequate means, men and policies of repression and prevention of social ills, from which many mafias and micro-crime draw their life force. we cannot tolerate the post-election need to reassure the disgruntled fringes of the majority to compromise 60 years of constitutional liberties. europe cannot and must not tolerate this. (protests)
i am sorry, mr susta, but i have to ask you to excuse me. what's going on? what's going on? i would like to point out that in this house there is no room for any form of intimidation of other members. i ask you to step away from the chamber.
europe cannot and must not tolerate people being discriminated against on the basis of their ethnicity. that is why this europe, this parliament, which is described as grotesque, must ensure that equality between citizens is guaranteed, perhaps also with the same instrument for all of the census already planned for next year, and that children, the poor and whatever ethnic group they belong to are guaranteed the right to education, health and dignity, which is their right even before as citizens, as persons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is being used as if it were the third chamber of the italian national parliament, in a debate based on inaccurate news reports. the commission is also still investigating and will only report on the government's initiative by the end of the month. now, the italian government has not violated any rights, especially those of minorities and children, and minister maroni has already stated and guaranteed several times that there is no creation of any database but that, on the contrary, all data will be processed in full compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. moreover, the measure will be temporary, i.e. used for a very limited period of time. minister maroni also stressed that the census of nomads and children in nomadic communities is carried out in full compliance with the principles of the un convention on the rights of the child and is aimed at implementing schooling and integration programmes for children and adolescents, already provided for in civil protection ordinances. i am very sorry that the various forces on the left are again bringing to the european parliament a controversy which is entirely linked to the italian situation. i am convinced that many things should have been done before. the challenge is on. the emergency exists and has been recognized by many colleagues who have intervened, but it has not been recognized by the governments before berlusconi's, nor by many large municipalities. the commission's report will be presented at the end of the month, and then we will have proof of the instrumental nature of the left's position. you leftists have started too early and with little information you are not doing a good job.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the modern culture of human rights places more importance on the quality of a man than on that of a citizen. it is a principle which requires that foreigners, stateless persons and nomads be treated as equal to citizens in the fundamental core of their human dignity, which requires a particular solidarity towards the most vulnerable, such as children in particular. this rightful sensitivity does not allow the european parliament to become a stage for denigrating a national government with the most serious and absurd accusation, that of racism, which declares - at least that is the content of the documents we are talking about - that it is responsible for public order but at the same time also for the protection of children, with reference to certain nomadic communities in particular emergency situations. the answer to the questions put is to be found in the italian government's decrees, which are limited to what has already been said to 3 out of 20 regions. it may surprise you to know that the word "roma" and the word "fingerprints" do not exist in these documents. it is therefore not true that there is any express provision for the establishment of a general classification of a particular breed; it is not true that a military census regime has been introduced. the discretionary powers conferred on the commissioners-delegates must take account of humanitarian and welfare considerations and be directed - at least this is the declared intention - towards human development and the integration of young people, especially with regard to schooling. of course, there is also a reasonable fear that the measures in question will be implemented by military and repressive means. it is therefore right to hope, but in a spirit of strong cooperation, that priority will be given to positive actions and to support, welcome and integrate, especially children, without prejudice to the duty of every public institution to enforce the laws. it's despicable to do more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for what happened earlier, but i did not mean to intimidate my colleague, to whom i apologise. but since you've come in and said that we were saying things that we didn't know about, i wanted to show you a card that i'm going to read here. this is a card, not a chat: "delegated commissioner for emergency and settlement nomadic communities in the campania region: census, central milk settlement, family name, surname, first name, date of birth, religion, ethnic group.' "religion and ethnicity" means racism. it is against all indications of ec regulation no 2043 and when fingerprint identification is justified by regulation 380/2008, i would point out that this regulation only concerns third country nationals. now, in italian roma camps, three quarters of the roma are romanians and the rest are roma and sinti italian citizens. we must protect the lives and future of roma and their children, especially those at risk of deviation and abandonment, without casting doubt and suspicion on an entire community and without fuelling anti-gypsyism. in italy, the risk is very high.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not need much, it was simply in relation to the answer given by commissioner špidla to our question. i would like to, if possible, because i found you a little general, evasive and perhaps a little contradictory in your answer today. i suppose that is because you have received information which has been partly confirmed by my colleagues who have gone before me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that public opinion in italy is well aware of what is happening in the roma camps. roma camps and communities live in lawlessness and immorality. while in civilized and christian european peoples, women and children are considered subjects to be protected and protected, in roma communities they are often and willingly subject to exploitation, to inducement to crime and prostitution. the italian state therefore has a duty, even while awaiting the expulsion of these individuals, to intervene to ensure justice and the protection of women and children and, through the census, to prevent widespread crime, which extends to all communities and leads in particular to children being persecuted or subjected to paedophilia or subjected to incitement to crime.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 july 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda for the joint debate includes the following recommendations for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety: on the uniform procedure for the authorisation of food additives, enzymes and flavourings (16673/2/2007 - c6-0138/2008 - 2006/0143 ((cod)) (rapporteur: åsa westlund) (a6-0179/2008) on food additives (16675/2/2007 - c6-0141/2008 - 2006/0145 ((cod)) (rapporteur: åsa westlund) (a6-0180/2008); on the common organisation of the market in food and feed products (com (2004) 0147 - c6-0138/2008 - c6-0148/2008)) (rapporteur: mr j. on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and amending council regulation (eec) no 1576/89, council regulation (eec) no 1601/91, regulation (ec) no 2232/96 and directive 2000/13/ec (16677/3/2007 - c6-0139/2008 - 2006/0147 (cod)) (rapporteur: dr mojca murčarko) (a6-0177/2008); on food enzymes and amending council directive 83/417/eec, council regulation (ec) no 1493/1999, directive 2000/13/ec and council directive 2001/112/ec (16676/1/2007 - c6-0140/2008 - 2006/0144 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs avril doyle) (a6-0176/2008) the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a report on the use of food enzymes in food and the use of food additives in food.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 july 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 29 of parliament's rules of procedure - constitution of political groups [2006/2201 (reg) ], (a6-0206/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 july 2008.
the agenda includes the report by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure in the light of the proposals of the parliament's reform working party concerning the proceedings of the house and owninitiative reports (2007/2272 (reg)) (a6-0197/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 july 2008.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. i would like to thank mr brie for his commitment and enthusiasm in this report and ask him not to withdraw his name from this report because he and the other shadow rapporteurs have been very well worked with. to say what? to do what at this moment so important for afghanistan? what happened yesterday shows that the commitment of europe, including afghanistan, is of the utmost importance. we ask in this report, firstly: i would like to see a greater commitment to military presence, because without it we will get nowhere. secondly, that efforts be stepped up to improve the democratic structures of the new state of afghanistan, which has been the victim of a situation of complete illegality for more than 30 years and, above all, is the heart of world terrorism. when you started to turn your attention to what global terrorism is after 9/11, you went to afghanistan and then iraq and you saw that you had stepped into a viper's den. the last stronghold, i would venture to say like hitler in the berlin bunker, of terrorists in the world at this moment is afghanistan. they're trying to reorganize, taking revenge in afghanistan for the defeat they had and are having in iraq. we in the european parliament, by approving this report as many of us as possible, will be giving a signal in this direction.
i would like to thank mr andré brie very much for his work and i fully agree with his decision to withdraw his signature. the resolution has been amended and describes a country where it talks about mass participation in elections and forgets that the population voted under the constant threat of armed groups. there is silence on the presence of warlords in the karzai government, no firm condemnation of operation enduring freedom, which is causing civilian casualties throughout the country. the support for nato's actions is overlooked, and its presence in afghanistan is one of the main causes of the absolute insecurity in which the country now finds itself. in addition, in view of the continuing increase in opium production, there is no mention of the possibility of starting experimental projects on the use of opium to produce morphine, despite the fact that a specific resolution on this subject was adopted in the european parliament. the concern for the fate of malalai joya and other activists is certainly a positive aspect, but it is not enough to prevent our delegation from voting against.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on amending directive 2003/87/ec to integrate aviation activities into the community greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (05058/3/2008 - c6-0177/2008 - 2006/0304) (peter liese) (a6-0220/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because only a blind man could fail to see that in afghanistan there is a viper's nest against the democratic world, which is trying to defend itself against the terrorist attacks that have occurred in several large and important countries of the world and, after having achieved numerous victories against this terrorism, now finds itself fighting the poisonous tail of this organization, which must be completely eradicated from the face of the earth and which is trying, after the defeat it is suffering decisively in iraq, to reorganise itself in afghanistan. that is why europe must stand firmly by the united states in this initiative.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the finish line after many, many months of work. it was no easy task. i think that the commission's proposals, although somewhat shady, are nevertheless up to the difficult task of dismantling long-standing monopoly positions which, in addition to preventing new competitors from entering the market, have long constrained investment and interconnection capacity between networks. those who have had the opportunity to listen to my speeches in committee know that the undersigned has from the outset given priority to the system of ownership separation in order to ensure complete independence between the companies operating in the transport sector and the companies operating in the gas supply sector, although he is aware that ownership separation is certainly not the panacea for all ills. it goes without saying that when the vertically integrated society is allowed to retain, even temporarily, ownership of transport systems, effective regulatory and control mechanisms should be established which are neither too burdensome nor too intrusive. of course, as we all know, the procedures for implementing the gas directive will necessarily take different time from those for electricity. this diversity was also clearly seen in the itre committee which considered the ito, the independent transmission operator, as the alternative to the separation/owners scheme. a compromise proposal, which i certainly do not favour but which nevertheless goes in the direction of greater liberalization. the ito, unlike the iso, will have to be subject to a third body with effective control powers. i hope that the council will take note of the ito proposal as approved by the committee on industry. the key role that the next regulatory framework will have to confer on the agency should be underlined: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim of reducing energy dependence requires a single energy market and a single integrated network. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the amendments tabled by myself and other colleagues from different political groups, concerning the possibility of bringing together the different transport operators in a single european network company, in order to ensure the uniformity of the regulatory frameworks and to guarantee market access for all operators, effectively overcoming the 'separation yes, ownership separation no' knot. the consumer was also a very important point in my report. i'm going for a run. it is necessary to create a transparent and comprehensible system for setting tariffs, which allows consumers to have access to consumption data at any time, giving them the freedom to change suppliers if necessary. as regards the comitology procedure, i am glad that the commission has accepted my position. i therefore believe that it is up to the member states to draw up the guidelines and not to a committee which is the sole voice of the commission. finally, i would like to mention the agreement reached between the political groups in my report on the powers and role of national regulators, an agreement which i consider important, especially as regards the possibility of using sanctions powers. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether we want tomorrow to be remembered as a key moment in the creation of an integrated single energy market, which europe needs to face the challenges of the next millennium, or whether, on the contrary, it will mark yet another downward compromise, the result of a timid and timid attempt at reform to be postponed substantially to the next legislature. i hope that the council will take due account of parliament's decisions, among other things. this is not always the case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by mr la russa is entirely acceptable in its method and substance, because it is finally decided to separate the ownership of the production activity from that of the transport of natural gas or, at least, to entrust the redistribution to a third party operator, as the parliamentary amendment rightly proposes, which therefore introduces the concept of an independent transmission operator. this is a good attempt to dismantle dangerous monopolies - as mr zile has already said - and thus to resolve the conflict of interests which is essential to guaranteeing security of supply in the most effective way. it is also commendable that efforts are being made to curb geoeconomic and geopolitical interference by prohibiting third-country operators from controlling the pipeline network of strategic importance to the union, even if there are exceptions which i hope will not be long-term. value of the la russa report if it is true that the internal gas market throughout the community is designed to offer all consumers in the union freedom of choice in supply and at the same time to create new business opportunities we must expect that greater efficiency of service will be achieved and that this will be reflected in competitive prices. the contribution to security of supply is also evident and, lastly, and this is particularly important for the social aspect, the strengthening of protection at national level for users, the weakest users and those living in disadvantaged and marginal areas or regions, which is to be achieved through supplies at preferential rates. i congratulate my colleague and wish him the most deserved and most successful report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i knew from the beginning that this would be a difficult debate, not easily understandable: i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in the near future, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in the near future. there have been many interventions and it would take at least another working day to respond to all of them. these times don't allow it. i have received many compliments and flattery, i think too many. i do not want you to get too proud of yourself, but i hope not. i think that the congratulations to the undersigned should be addressed to the whole itre committee in particular, which has worked very hard over these many long months. so i would like to thank in particular the collaborators, manders, swoboda, reul, commissioner pibelgas and vidal-quadras, and all of them for their good work. i believe that i have worked during this period with the utmost transparency and cooperation, trying to listen to everyone and to make everyone involved in the directive. i think we have achieved that clarity and transparency. i have asked some of my colleagues to strip off, perhaps sometimes, a little of the cloak of a national parliamentarian, thus abandoning the role of a party, in order to be a little more of a european parliamentarian at the service of all citizens. i conclude, just to reassure my colleague zīle, who had the problem of gasprom, of russia. we know that this is an extremely serious problem and that it must be tackled, studied and solved with great care and, above all, with great rigour. on the consumer side, i believe that all my speeches in recent months, including my report, have always been about transparency and helping consumers, without, of course, forgetting the operators who have their own merits, so no surrender to the great powers or to european monopolies and beyond.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am very pleased to introduce this debate to you this evening, because it brings to a close a work which started with great difficulty but which i believe has achieved results of great importance. we are discussing very technical matters this evening, but they are matters which, in my view, contribute to the construction of europe much more than many of the talks we have with each other in many other places. we were not aware of it, but there are almost 700 000 railway wagons in europe which can now move from one country to another, which can be used by one company rather than another and which until now were prevented from crossing the frontiers with a certain amount of peace of mind, because we had not guaranteed common safety rules from one side to the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of railway vehicles is not compromised by the introduction of new safety standards, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. finally, we are beginning to see the single railway market which was envisaged in 1957 with the first treaty but which we have not yet achieved. the point we were working on in the proposal for a safety directive was to create a system of certification of the maintenance of railway wagons, which would be available not only to railway companies, not only to those who operate the infrastructure, but also, if necessary, to any third party who decided to invest in a wagon fleet. and this without discriminating, without eliminating the responsibility of the railway companies, in the use of the wagons themselves when they are moving. we have long discussed whether this certification should be voluntary rather than mandatory, whether we should limit ourselves to railway wagons rather than the rest of the things, and i think we have found a good solution. the commission has already made it clear that it will be compulsory for wagons for the next two years, and for other vehicles, passenger vehicles, within a decade. this system has been outlined, this path has been followed, and in a little while we will arrive at the point we are interested in. the regulation on agencies - i am particularly interested in emphasizing - is the point on the european signalling system, which allows a technological step forward and the possibility of eliminating other things. we had two problems: how can we ensure that the technological innovation we need to drive and keep growing does not leave us uncertain about where we need to go to invest in moving to this signalling system. well, i think that here too the solution has been found, which fixes a version 2.3.0 these days and brings it forward and is compatible with the fact that in 2012 we will have the even more advanced and final one that we will have to do. for these reasons, having solved - i think - brilliantly these two problems, i think i can recommend to parliament that it vote on the agreement reached at second reading, which also makes it possible to demonstrate efficiency in our work and in our relations with the council.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i listened with interest to your speeches and i share the decision to defend the historic railway cars, as mr simpson and mr jarzembowski have rightly pointed out. similarly, mr rack and mr savary insisted on defending the agency. we are in favour of this. i have a good feeling about this. i welcome the general agreement on the compromise reached between parliament and the council. we are seeing the process of revitalization of the european railway sector, which the community has been undertaking for several years, begin to bear fruit. its market share, after having declined since 1970 in most member states, has now stabilised and shows clear signs of growth, which we welcome. with the imminent completion of the legislative work on this technical but economically very important legislative package, railway undertakings will be able to play their full role in ensuring sustainable transport in a market open to competition between them and with other modes of transport. i therefore welcome the agreements reached on these three issues: interoperability, security and the agency, and i am once again grateful to parliament, not only as a commissioner but also as a former member, for the rapid and high-quality work it has done on this text.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken, because i think we can look forward with confidence to the vote tomorrow and to the possibility of concluding this agreement, which is a major step forward for us. the railways have a destiny in europe and can only regain market share if they are able to compete. the first condition is that it can travel distances of 300 to 400 kilometres, which is where the competition with the other modes can win. 400 kilometres in europe means crossing borders. the theme is all here: either we can get our trains across the border efficiently and quickly, or we're not there. a few years ago we made the rules because the train drivers could do it, today we make them because the wagons could do it. soon it will also be open to passenger trains and railway cars. they will do so in a blurred manner, without any need to worry that interoperability might jeopardize security. this is the objective we set ourselves and i think we are achieving it. we are giving ourselves european time and horizons - two years for the wagons, ten years for the rest - but this will happen. this material will move using a unique signalling system. the idea we pursued until a few years ago of teaching a train to recognise multiple signalling systems was another way, but clearly it was a way that could not but clash with the fact that we have more than 20 different systems in europe. if these two things are done quickly enough, we shall have made a serious and important contribution to the completion of the single railway market, which our founding fathers had hoped would be the first to be built, but which will be the last: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not affected by the effects of the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro zone is suffering from energy prices which neither the ecb, nor the union, nor governments are able to control. the german finance minister, mr steinbruck, told you that, mr trichet, and in this context the ecb announced that it intended to support banks in difficulty. well, i wonder when the ecb will announce that it wants to support citizens who don't make ends meet, perhaps by cutting the cost of money and imposing on banks interest-free mortgage rates like they do now? maintaining growth is more important than keeping the currency high. this is the dollar policy to which the ecb does not respond effectively. mr schmidt wants the role and authority of the ecb to be strengthened, while i am among those who persist in questioning the ecb's independence. of course, there have been benefits from the introduction of the euro: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last, in which the european parliament and the council discussed the situation in the euro area, stressed the need to ensure that the european union's monetary policy is not undermined by the excessive use of the euro. as schmidt writes, the ecb owes its acceptance by public opinion to the objectives of defence, price stability and economic growth and therefore considers transparency to be incidental. it also proposes to abandon the principle of equality of member states and would like to give more powers to the executive board. in short, the honourable member fears the risk that governments will put pressure on the governor of the central bank, that is to say, he fears the primacy of policy over finance. i believe the opposite. mr schmidt, mr trichet, i cannot support these proposals.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's short time did not allow me to thank all those who had helped as i would have liked. it was a difficult directive, a very long debate, but i think we came to a good conclusion. i am grateful, in particular, for the cooperation of all my colleagues on the itre committee, in particular the shadows, reul, swoboda, manders, turmes, seppänen, of course commissioner pielbalgs - i hope i have not forgotten anyone - and the cooperation of vidal-quadras. of course, my thanks go to the entire secretariat, to my staff and my collaborators. just three seconds. this is a very interesting and very important directive. it's a directive. let me talk for three seconds. it is a directive - we are wasting so much of that time in this parliament - which concerns all europeans, i think. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i believe that in this work we have done we have not wanted to penalize neither producers nor consumers but have wanted to work - thank you for the applause but i continue - to have wanted to work for all european citizens in the direction ... all right, you're in a hurry, let's wrap this up real quick. this, i thank you, is a beautiful expression of parliamentary democracy in europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i abstained from the final vote and voted against the proposal for a so-called 'third way' in the separation of supply from networks in the gas market, because we have missed an important opportunity to affirm the principle of free competition in the gas market. we should have followed what we did for the electricity market; the third way, on the other hand, is in fact mainly for monopolists and ex-monopolists in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. worse than that is the fact that this ambiguous third way actually makes the former monopolists even more incentivized and favoured to have deals like those with the russian gas giant, gasprom.
in writing. - mr president, i shall vote in favour of this resolution. i am the rapporteur on the development committee for the erasmus mundus programme and my report was recently approved unanimously. i hope we can get the final text out in the plenary in september so that the new programme can start in january 2009. the aim is to export the excellence of our university system beyond the borders of the union by involving foreign students in a course of study in our universities. but also to give eu students the opportunity, through support, to undertake an experience in a third country. i believe that erasmus mundus is an essential tool for sustainable development because, as my report emphasizes, it will have to encourage students to return to their home countries and, with the wealth of ideas, knowledge and international contacts they have acquired, contribute to the growth of the economies of origin. a significant part of the funds for action 2 is taken from the development appropriations. i believe it is essential to ensure that the financial allocations in the 2008 annual programmes for argentina and brazil, specifically intended to promote economic development and well-being, are actually used both for education and for concrete interventions on the ground and that they provide infrastructure and means of production for sustainable development.
in writing. - the lambsdorff report (and its recommendation) is an important political signal for strengthening the profile of the european union within the united nations, which, among the member states and the commission, provides the un with more than 40% of its funding, without having yet acquired political weight and a corresponding capacity of influence. the text, however, contains a misleading and damaging part of the discussions currently taking place in new york on the reform of the security council. in reiterating the ultimate objective of a permanent seat for the eu as such, the recommendation mentions, among the various negotiating initiatives under way, only the so-called 'overarching process', an exercise led by countries committed to supporting only one of the various proposals on the table, namely an increase in the number of permanent members at national level. this proposal, which was approved by less than one third of the membership, appeared from the outset to be divisive and unbalanced, as the president of the general assembly himself noted. in reiterating our deep appreciation for the signal of attention and political direction which the european parliament is giving to the overall strengthening of the european union's profile at the united nations, we therefore consider it necessary to put our reservation and objection to the recommendation on the 'overarching process' in the minutes.
in writing. - mr president, i welcome the lambsdorff report, which once again shows the commitment of the european parliament to strengthening the european union's profile at the united nations. i would point out, however, that on the question of reform of the security council, the report gives a positive assessment, in a prejudicial way, of the discussions still taking place in new york. in particular, among the various reform options in the field, the so-called 'overarching process' (paragraph q) is mentioned, which consists of proposing an increase in the permanent members of the security council at national level. this proposal has so far been supported by less than one third of the member states of the united nations general assembly. i would therefore ask you to put my reservation on this passage of the recommendation on the record.
in writing. - the lambsdorff report is an important political signal for strengthening the profile of the european union within the united nations, which, among member states and the commission, provides the un with more than 40% of its funding, without having yet acquired political weight and a corresponding capacity of influence. the text contains a misleading and damaging part of the current discussions on the reform of the security council. in reiterating the ultimate objective of a permanent seat for the eu as such, the recommendation mentions, among the various negotiating initiatives under way, only the so-called 'overarching process', supported by countries that would like only one of the various proposals on the table, namely an increase in permanent members at national level. this proposal, which was approved by less than one third of the membership, appeared from the outset to be divisive and unbalanced, as the president of the general assembly himself noted. in reiterating my strong appreciation of the signal of attention and political direction that the european parliament is giving to the overall strengthening of the european union's profile at the united nations, i therefore consider it necessary to record my reservation and objection to the recommendation on the 'overarching process'.
in writing. - the lambsdorff report (and its recommendation) is an important political signal for strengthening the profile of the european union within the united nations, which, among member states and the commission, provides the un with more than 40% of its funding, without having yet acquired political weight and a corresponding capacity of influence. the text contains a misleading and damaging part of the discussions currently taking place in new york on the reform of the security council. in reiterating the ultimate objective of a permanent seat for the eu as such, the recommendation mentions, among the various negotiating initiatives under way, only the so-called 'overarching process', an exercise led by countries committed to supporting only one of the different proposals on the table, namely an increase in the number of permanent members at national level. this proposal, which was approved by less than one third of the membership, appeared from the outset to be divisive and unbalanced, as the president of the general assembly himself noted. in reiterating my strong appreciation of the signal of attention and political direction that the european parliament is giving to the overall strengthening of the european union's profile at the united nations, i therefore consider it necessary to record my reservation and objection to the recommendation on the 'overarching process'.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one here is questioning the importance of all kinds of relations with the chinese government, let alone solidarity in the aftermath of the earthquake. there is a problem here, particularly in the presentation that the presidency of the council has made. it is a presentation which fully sums up the role that this european union can and must play in asserting the civil and political rights of all the people living on chinese soil, in tibet and not only in tibet. (applause) i would like to thank we must say something about this, because otherwise to welcome in this way the fact that foreign tourists are being allowed back in, without saying a word about what has happened, about the sentences, the public trials, the militarization of lhasa, on the occasion of the olympic torchlight, the freedoms that continue to be lacking, the torture that continues to be carried out, this is a partial way of dealing with a problem. perhaps this partial role will then foster a reaction that will be accused of being naive, idealistic, sterile, because there are people who think about serious things, good relations with china, and then there are people who think about naive and inconsistent things, which will be us. this is the result of a presentation like the one you gave: you don't even mention the uighur people, simply because you don't have a transnational leader of nonviolence like the dalai lama, i think that's a big deal when you talk about china. and so europe is a europe that in the face of all this says: 'each head of state decides for himself whether he goes or not, and we france have in the meantime consulted our partners and are going as the presidency of the european union'. but which presidency? but which european union? this is the europe of the homelands and china rightly does not consider the europe of the homelands capable of any policy which would intimidate it in respecting the human rights of chinese citizens and others. (applause) i would like to thank
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we asked 47 members of parliament from various political groups a simple question: what action does the council and the commission intend to take in view of the israeli authorities' violation of international conventions in their treatment of palestinian prisoners? the vast majority are incarcerated on israeli soil, in violation of article 76 of the geneva convention: arbitrary arrests, searches, administrative detention, torture and abuse during interrogations in places of detention. men, women, teenagers, students, parliamentarians and mayors, about 10,000 people imprisoned out of a population of three and a half million people; there are prisoners who have not been able to meet their brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers for years, and there is a ban on anyone between 16 and 35 years old. everything is documented by international organizations, amnesty international, the united nations and admirable israeli organizations, such as bet'selem, hamoked or palestinians like addameer, defence the children international: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to read a testimony, the appeal of a mother: "i am the mother of the prisoner said al atabeh, of nablus. my son has been in prison since '77, i'm 78, i have high blood pressure, diabetes, i'm losing my sight, and i can't even walk in my own house anymore. you may be surprised, but my only wish in this life is to see my son and give him a warm hug before i die. all my children, boys and girls, have now grown up, married and left my home. said has been stripped of everything and i cannot see him, not because of old age or illness, but because the israeli authorities refuse me permission to visit him for security reasons, they say. said i was able to visit said only once, transported by an israeli ambulance in cooperation with the red cross and that was eight years ago after 29 years of his imprisonment. it was the first and last time i hugged my beloved son. she hugged me and said, "mom, it's like i'm being born again into this life". those were the best moments for me and him, but the moment we parted was the hardest and most painful". this mother makes an appeal, "i want to see him one more time". can we afford this? can we allow a man who's been in prison for 32 years not to see his mother? where are the international rules? where is humanity, i wonder? i believe that as the council, as the commission, as parliament, we must say very strongly and very directly that international rules must be respected, that the palestinian prisoners, and there are 10,000 of them, i repeat, must be free to make peace between palestinians and israelis.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a regulation to deal with the crisis in the fisheries sector. of course, these provisions will not completely solve the problems of a sector which is specifically complex, as the european council itself acknowledged at its june summit, given the dual resource-market constraint which makes the sector itself less resistant to economic pressure. but the measure adopted today on the oil-emergency issue certainly opens up new perspectives and new scenarios. it is important that our navies seize all the opportunities. it must be remembered that the increase in the price of diesel, which has more than doubled in the space of a few months, has not only brought the profits to zero, but is now causing fishermen to operate at a loss. the regulation provides for a temporary special scheme with a deadline of 31 december 2010 and the objective of which is to facilitate a faster adaptation of the community fleet to the current situation by mitigating the socioeconomic impact during the transition phase. the package focuses mainly on reducing fishing effort and overcapacity and on fleet modernisation and conversion with the aim of tackling the problem of high fuel dependency. other measures are aimed at improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions from fishing vessels, and at promoting the abandonment of environmentally harmful fishing techniques such as trawling.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support mr weber's proposal and i thank commissioner barrot not only for what he said in the house today but also for his efforts to resolve in the best and most constructive way a situation which in italy must be defined in the right way, namely an emergency situation involving thousands of people. i can assure you that thousands of children are living in conditions of total neglect, without any right to medical care, vaccinations and education. it seems to me that the commission and the italian government are working together... president may i finish speaking? can i continue or do i have to interrupt? can you remind the house that i have the right to speak? i said that the commission and the government are going in the right direction and above all i think that we should not vote on a resolution which is full of inaccuracies, full of errors from a legal point of view, that is, full of legal falsehoods. so it is a purely political resolution, devoid of any foundation. i would also like to remind the house - i am going to start with the conclusion - that while commissioner barrot was absolutely precise today, commissioner špidla said three days ago that he had not yet read the order, which i myself remember being only two pages long. so if the left must today at all costs make a pre-emptive judgment on the actions of a government, i think it is absolutely illegitimate.
mr president, i would add in the second part of the amendment that it is requested that ordinary and non-discriminatory identification measures be used on a case-by-case basis. so in english, "to employ on case-by-case basis ordinary, non-discriminatory and so on.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution, although i hope that it will not be used as a tool for partisan purposes. the roma issue is neither right-wing nor left-wing, but simply a serious and unresolved problem, requiring urgent action that has been delayed for too long. we are in favour of a culture of integration and therefore concrete efforts and commitments must be made in this respect. the measure under discussion in our government, despite the ambiguous assurances of minister maroni, must be rejected in its basic approach: the problem with this measure is not identification itself, but the fact that it is intended to use an ethnic criterion and a practice (fingerprints) that is highly discriminatory, especially against minors. in exposing these abuses, we are not alone: the protest of large sections of the catholic church, voluntary associations and organizations, lay and catholic, was strong. the national president of unicef has also categorically rejected the substance of this decree. the hope is that the government will learn from this vote, which in fact condemns italy: you have to let go of the wrong path you've taken.
in writing. - mr president, it is good that europe is making its voice heard in this part of africa which is in danger of being the scene of violent clashes again, after the farcical presidential campaign of a few days ago. the g8 also took an explicit stand, not by introducing sanctions, which would particularly harm the civilian population, but by "financial measures" that will especially affect companies, banks and figures of the regime in power since 1980. the situation that has arisen, with elections held in the absence of appropriate conditions and systematic violence, is unacceptable. i also hope that our community diplomacy will take action to support the african union's proposal for a government of national unity to overcome this difficult crisis.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to bring citizens closer to europe, it is necessary, as i said in the european convention for the new treaty, to give europe a soul, while respecting the different languages and identities, reaffirming common roots and values, just as you tried to give this soul in your speech today. as strasbourg is the symbol of a newfound peace, so today the european flag, alongside national flags, should visually represent the symbol of all citizens united by a common project for defence, security, cultural and economic growth, the transparency of the central bank: perhaps that is still missing from the new treaty. politics must give young people clear objectives. there is no economic future without respect for the environment and there is no respect for rights without the recognition of the respective duties. we hope that the french presidency will include the european charter of fundamental rights among its objectives. democracy and freedom are based on the application of rules. the internet cannot be a tool for terrorism, for the trafficking of children, for incitement to violence. we must harmonize the laws of our countries, from immigration to child protection, from energy to compatible progress. a new europe for a new relationship with africa. we must not only accept green certificates or trade, but also mutual growth, by sharing the euro-mediterranean project wholeheartedly. we must also consider the pockets of terrorism in mogadishu and the violence in zimbabwe, which are hindering the development of democracy. there are too many hesitations within the union: we ask the council to approve the made in so that international trade has clear rules. the fight against counterfeiting and illegality is an economic problem, but it also affects the health of our citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises are a cultural asset that must be defended. i would like to express our firm support for the french presidency, so that the hopes of the citizens become a reality and that, if necessary, by helping to develop scientific growth in the fight against rare diseases, we can also combat the endemic antipathy that our intelligent friend mr schulz has for president berlusconi.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, like the president of the european parliament, like many other colleagues, i am a child of the ruins of the second world war, and i very much appreciate the voluntarism you have shown in your speech, which for that reason disregards scepticism, since scepticism is for me something that belongs to the spirit of munich, and it is the acid that dissolves the european will. that is why i very much appreciated the energy you put into a speech which, as mrs lulling has just said on television for example, we found clear, we found precise and we found, i say, stripped of all fashions, convincing. the second thing i want to say, mr president, is that of course you are right and it must be said in this house. the fears and fears of europe and the threats to it were certainly a major factor in the construction of the 1950s, but these fears and fears, if they have changed in nature, are still very much present today. that is why we need a totally voluntary response. i very much appreciate the priorities, i say this frankly, because they are real, and in particular the immigration policy, which will be carried out by your minister, mr hortefeux, our former colleague. i had the honour of representing the european parliament at the euro-african conference in rabat two years ago. it brought together for the first time the countries which have the same responsibilities, whether in origin, transit or reception of immigrants, and, as mr watson said earlier, i think it is very important, particularly - why not? - through the structure of the union for the mediterranean, to have a generous policy of proximity and surveillance. finally, mr president, let us not forget that if europe has a special weight in the world, it is because it is a cradle of culture, because culture is the cement of our differences, because culture is the foundation of our political systems, and that is also why we are looked at in a completely different way. volunteering will probably need your energy in this area of culture as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed the union for the mediterranean initiative, which will be the basis for the summit in paris next sunday, and we wish this initiative success. i would like to make a few points, however. this initiative aims to strengthen the multilateral dimension of the euro-mediterranean area. i think it's right and we have to go in that direction. i think that if there is a policy to be seen critically, it is the neighbourhood with the countries of the south, because the neighbourhood policy, on the contrary, puts countries that are very divided in competition with each other. so we must insist on integration between these countries and between them and europe and channel resources there too. i say to you, mr president, that we have not appreciated at all - and i say this to president barroso - the fact that you have stopped funding the audiovisuel méditerranée programme, which was the only instrument of cultural co-production. you said there was a european cultural exception, but i would add, mr president, that there is a euro-mediterranean cultural exception. if you look at the top 20 intellectuals in the world, you find in the top ten many from muslim culture and a lot of euro-mediterranean culture. so let us help each other to put in place effective policies to change the lives of so many people in these countries, especially young people and women, who see europe as a hope. we don 't need good students . we need to change the reality of this report and parliament is very much prepared to work with its presidency if it can move in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, as president of the italian delegation of the european people's party, i am pleased that you have taken the lead in europe and i am pleased with what you have said. she's got enthusiasm and pride. it is a matter of the european parliament's own initiative, and it is a matter of the european parliament's own initiative. italy has always been linked to france by great cultural and social ties: the european union is not a political union, but a political union. those who live within this institution know how difficult it is to carry out the process of development and integration, because this process must be built up among peoples of different histories, cultures, social statuses and traditions. the political instrumental positions recently expressed by mr schulz in relation to the current and very popular italian government are certainly not helpful. however, it is a process that must be developed despite the bitterness that sometimes entails. the lisbon treaty, a fine treaty, is suffering a setback which must be overcome with such goodwill, not marginalizing those who have not understood. but i agree with what you said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the wave of immigration which is affecting europe, and in particular some member states, and particularly my own country and those in the mediterranean area, must be regulated and seen as a common problem and not as a reason for singling out or even for instrumentally penalizing countries which are already making so many sacrifices. the people of our countries must be protected and integration must be built with reason. mr president, the italian government and people look to your mandate with attention and confidence, in the certainty that the history and social grandeur of which you are the bearer today will be an injection of hope and development for europe.
in writing. thank you, mr president. i wish president sarkozy all the best for his work as he takes over the council's responsibilities for six months today. unfortunately, clouds are gathering over the future of the european union: the paradoxical vote in ireland (which, thanks to eu funds, has become the celtic tiger we know), the government crisis in austria, the proclamations of the polish president - all these are worrying signs. we must find the strength and the capacity to relaunch a european path which must once again arouse enthusiasm and emotion in the citizens, who still perceive the union as something distant and somewhat abstruse. i also take this opportunity to challenge the president: the european union is a great example of a great europe. it would be excellent if the french president would initiate a serious discussion on the question of overcoming the double seat of parliament: we concentrate all our activities in brussels and avoid the monthly move to strasbourg (whose premises could be used for other purposes, for example for the technology centre of excellence): the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been established in europe on the basis of the conviction that it is no longer possible to guarantee prosperity, freedom, democracy and peace on the basis of national sovereignty. we are condemning the georgians, who in the name of europe and with europe as their hope had broken a dictatorial yoke that was stifling them, we are condemning them to national independence, while with profound cowardice a large part of our europe is today also serving moscow and putin's policy, preparing to be also serving china. what we have to deal with today is that we cannot continue to condemn georgia, turkey, israel, morocco - whose king asked to join the european union in 1985 - we cannot condemn them for what we refused and which was our salvation!
in writing. the legislative proposal on executions in absentia needs to be adopted to address a serious disparity in treatment and the strong discretion left to the enforcement authorities in the 27 eu countries. these are the objectives which the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has set itself to achieve by submitting its opinion to the committee on civil liberties. the four amendments, which were unanimously adopted in may and essentially adopted by the committee responsible, seek to ensure a fair balance between the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and the need for mutual recognition of judgments. the work of harmonizing our criminal justice system, aimed at introducing into the proposal the homogeneous criteria recognised by the greatest number of states of the union, in the name of legal clarity, has therefore become essential. these are minimum standards designed to combine the safeguarding of the guarantees for the protection of the accused with the need to preserve effective crossborder judicial cooperation. in some cases, however, the member state is left with the necessary discretion to take account of the specific features of its legal system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact commenting on the decisions taken and i believe that in the face of such different figures on deaths, crimes and possible war crimes, it would be necessary for the european union to propose that the investigation be carried out at international level and, if necessary, with the involvement of the international criminal court. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is certainly true, but then let's say that there are also those who discouraged them from feeling european and that was us, as the european union, because the european vocation of georgia and the georgian people is a fact that we did not want to consider: hundreds of them had signed a call from the radical party in the late 1990s for a european perspective that we did not give them! that is why, and i conclude, the international conference we are talking about is a good one, involving the unrepresented peoples of the whole area and dealing with the european political and strategic perspectives for that area.
mr president, today's ossetia and abkhazia are yesterday's kosovo. none of the many governments that are calling for peace in georgia today can deny their responsibilities: the united states and most european countries, by recognizing kosovo, have set a precedent that would destabilize the caucasus region! the united states, by extending nato to russia's borders, has a political responsibility, even before a military one, for pushing georgia to the brink of collapse on the night of 7/8 august. tbilisi, in fact, attacking south ossetia, thought it could count on the protection, including military, of the united states. an unjustifiable attack that has hit civilians and shattered already fragile agreements. a response, the russian one, prepared long ago and waiting for the opportunity to unfold in all its violence. there are no innocent governments in this affair! the only victims are the civilian population, regardless of their nationality, forced to abandon their homes and victims of all kinds of violence. we are witnessing a war where the nationalist aspirations of local leaderships are overlaid by the clash between the great powers for control of energy resources: the gas and oil pipelines that run from central asia to the west are the real reason for the conflict. the caucasus region is the crossroads of the routes from turkey to the mediterranean and the georgia routes from ukraine to poland. it is no coincidence that the united states has asked poland to host its missiles aimed at the east. europe must work for a peaceful solution, demanding both the withdrawal of russian troops from georgian territory and the right of the peoples to self-determination. the eu must first of all help the refugees and avoid any political action that could further aggravate the situation. we must reject any offer of georgia's membership of nato, we must demand the withdrawal of the us fleet from the black sea and that poland renounce the installation of us missiles. we must be sure that our aid is not used to buy weapons and that refugees are not used as weapons of war by the parties to the conflict!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has done very well today in sending a very clear message to moscow that we europeans defend the rights of peoples and do not play them on the altar of conventions and geopolitical conventions. and we have a moral duty to our people, especially those who for many decades have suffered the heel of soviet imperialism, to defend these principles of freedom. but it is equally good that someone like italian president berlusconi has kept an open channel of dialogue with moscow, to explain europe's reasons and to warn that the prospect of the reopening of a cold war climate - not only from a political point of view, not only from an economic and political point of view, but also and above all from a historical point of view - from the point of view of the prospects of a europe which will naturally be able to understand russia as well as historical developments or which may be closed down for good. so it is very important to open and maintain a dialogue. europe, the peoples of europe, do not want the cold war because the cold war reminds us of death, persecution ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw a few practical conclusions from the debate this evening. i must, however, acknowledge the french minister for having had a lot of courage and for having made some very important statements in this house. i agree with everything the french minister has said, i agree with him to the very end. i will not repeat a few lines because the press will be full enough tomorrow with what he has said here. what i would like to see is that i think there has been a leap in quality from the european union itself: we can talk about anything we want in here, but we are not artificial and we do not have the power to intervene in the foreign policy of the european union, only the european council can do that. the european council, certainly not in my short time in this parliament, has shown what europe is doing: a great leap in quality. today's european council has really shown that the european union exists, that the european union, although not yet in force under the treaty of lisbon, is capable of dealing with matters of considerable importance. i would also like to emphasize the strong appreciation that must be given to what the french presidency has done, to what president sarkozy has done, to what chancellor merkel has done, to what president berlusconi has done in this crisis. i think that the joint result does not express a judgment on the british prime minister's intervention, perhaps he has finally made a correct and fair adjustment today, in the past what he said to the press was certainly not appreciated. i believe, and i conclude, that the great leap in quality is precisely this: the european union exists! let's make plans with nato and eu membership. let's see how good things are. the french minister is right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the shakashvili affair is the result of an unforgivable error of judgement: it is to think that russia would not have reacted to a military aggression, because it was a military aggression. russia is not the same as in 2000 and will not retreat, nor tactics nor strategies! the first thing to do is to return to realism, europe and its unity have been seriously damaged by this mistake, let us not allow ourselves to repeat it and let us not allow anyone else to force us to repeat it. some people think that we should now speed up the accession of ukraine and georgia to nato. i would ask those who feel this way to think carefully, because such a decision will not strengthen our security, but on the contrary will worsen it. because we now know that russia will respond with measures, if not equal, then certainly opposite. we risk having a crisis soon that is much bigger than the one in august and in a country like ukraine in the centre of europe. wisdom is that we should make many recalculations, because they were wrong, and that we should return to the negotiating table with russia on the basis of reciprocity and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the text on the social package which has just been presented to us sets out an important challenge for the development of europe in the light of the lisbon strategy which european decision-makers have adopted as a guideline for a fruitful and unstoppable process of integration, modernization and development of our common home. initiatives are being taken in the fields of employment, social affairs, education, youth, health, the information society and economic affairs, all of which are fundamental issues that directly affect the daily lives of all european citizens and which therefore require complex, concerted and above all transparent work. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to stress the importance and the need for this proposal, which, among the themes already mentioned, seeks to achieve a comprehensive attempt to address, study and solve issues such as demographic change, globalisation and the importance of the human factor. i welcome the commission's intention to review directives 9285 and 9639 as regards maternity leave, an initiative which is intended to improve the conditions of family life for all those women who, in parallel with their domestic life, face the world of work on a daily basis. i would like to have two answers from the commission on subjects such as the fight against poverty - and we are not talking about poverty in the third world countries but within the community's borders - a problem which is affecting every single member of the european union more and more each year. i ask you this: what methodology will the commission adopt in a concrete way to solve a problem which, i repeat, year after year, systematically affects european economies and, as a direct consequence, the living standards of millions of european citizens? secondly, i would like to know - and i am also directly concerned about this on grounds of sex - what the commission intends to do about the discrimination against women which still persists in society today, in 2008, especially in the field of employment and particularly in the area of pay. what concrete measures must be taken to eliminate this imbalance? in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner špidla for the work he has done in drawing up this document. i thank the council representatives and i would like to stress once again the importance of this social package as part of the renewed social agenda.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the analyses and investigations, including those on the correct transposition of the anti-discrimination directives, the main issues remain those of effectiveness and innovation. how can we design the new directive which is awaited and which is called the 'horizontal directive', but which for the moment is nothing but the extension of the protection of a set of factors beyond work, if the subject of positive action is still dealt with as safeguarding measures which are not prohibited and not as calling for measures to be promoted? some signals forwards - but too timid - come from the communication for a renewed general commitment to the issue, which ends with the request for better application of the instruments dedicated to roma, almost to invoke what cannot be done. are we just writing words? in this area, i fear so! for example, it seems useless to put questions to the commission about discrimination and the backwardness of national or subnational legislation. the answer is too often, almost always, simply to remind the public of the existence of european protection legislation: fresh water, no interference, and silence! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the new renewed social agenda may be a good exercise, but the package of proposed topics is more like a puzzle, made up of pieces that had not yet found their place at the end of the legislature, which has a set of interventions aimed at a real innovation project. and speaking of discrimination and stereotypes, mr. secretary, thank your president for the tie.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs batzeli's report and welcome the substantial increase in the funds for it. the youth in action programme has been an important instrument in recent years for involving the new levers of our union in the great european project: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission is right to continue along this path: as a young representative of this parliament, and knowing the commitment and intentions of commissioner figel, i can certainly be optimistic about the success of the new 2007-13 programme.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, as in the case of the previous reports, i would like to express my support for the work of mrs batzeli. the 'europe for citizens' programme has been an important opportunity in recent years in the difficult effort to bring europe closer to europeans: in the past, europe has too often been seen as something distant and remote, a bureaucratic entity out of touch with the everyday reality of its citizens. today, as we are sitting in plenary, exceptionally in brussels, we have the opportunity to send a signal which would be very well received by the citizens of europe: we are now beginning to think about a single seat for the european parliament in brussels. the reasons for this monthly "transfer" which involves increasing economic and organizational efforts are less and less understood by our citizens. we are beginning to discuss this matter without taboo.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs kaufmann on the european judicial network. i share its purpose and objective, which is to strengthen the existing structures and to unify their action. the considerable changes in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters in recent years have made it necessary to establish and strengthen structures for assistance and coordination at european level. although the principle of mutual recognition is beginning to be applied in practice, practical difficulties remain and there is an increase in particularly complex transnational cases where assistance and support to the competent national judicial authorities is becoming increasingly necessary.
in writing. − fisheries and aquaculture are two of the main activities for the socioeconomic development of coastal areas in the european union. they should therefore be managed in such a way as to ensure both sustainable fisheries exploitation and the increasing demand for fishery products. to this end, eu states need to implement a series of measures to safeguard coastal zones and promote a clean marine environment. the cross-border nature of many coastal processes requires cooperation between member states and between them and neighbouring non-community states. one of the measures concerns the planning of tourist property development. the tourism sector accounts for a large proportion of local gdp in many regions. i believe, however, that it is necessary to support 'eco-friendly' tourism, i.e. tourism which interacts with policies to protect the landscape and the environment. coordination is also needed in the following areas of industrial activity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. the coastal and artisanal fisheries are a very important source of income for thousands of families and bear a centuries-old tradition which europe, in my view, must support and preserve.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the gklavakis report which stresses the need for a european strategy to take care of coastal areas in the context of sustainable development. a strategy for integrated coastal zone management can provide the appropriate framework for the sustainable exploitation of coastal zones and activities. i fully share the rapporteur's view that longterm planning is necessary and that all the parties involved should be taken into account. i therefore welcome this opinion and also stress the need for it to be just the beginning of greater attention to the sector and i call on the commission to implement a serious policy in this area.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the brejc report. i agree with the proposal and its aims. our borders are subject to a high influx of people intending to enter the schengen area at particular times. it is true that the proposal introduces a relaxation of the normal control regime, but it is also true that it aims to protect the traveller by saving him from long hours of waiting at the borders to complete the controls. however, this derogation should remain as such and not become a general rule, and i agree that the duration and frequency of the derogation should be limited to the maximum. in this sense, i welcome, in the final analysis, the introduction of the specific recurring conditions under which this derogation can be put into effect.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the world of telecommunications, every resource that allows the transmission of voice, data and images is a valuable asset. that's why the idea that we're going to have a lot of radio spectrum around in a few years, a lot of free spectrum available for new uses, is a great social and cultural opportunity as well as an economic and commercial opportunity. in fact, some have already quantified the commercial value of the digital dividend. we must therefore have a proper policy at european level, one which makes the most of this resource, one which makes europe a driver and not an assembler of many national policies. it is well known that in other parts of the world, i am thinking of japan and the usa, this resource is already being used with great success and all this is going to mark an undisputed competitive advantage for companies in these parts of the world. there is therefore time to make up for this or to use it quickly and even if the digital switchover is completed in europe in 2012 a date which must be absolutely and absolutely respected we must already now, without delay, make the most of both the radio spectrum reform and the digital dividend. radio spectrum is a natural resource and therefore a public good. the value of this technology must therefore be used not only for economic exploitation but also for the benefit of the community, and hence for social value, for example by ensuring wide access for all citizens, including the disadvantaged, by bringing broadband services to the most remote areas of our country and thereby bridging the digital divide that still exists in many parts of europe, and i am not just thinking of rural areas but also of urbanised and industrial areas. i was saying that time is of the essence for the digital dividend and i think we need to use this last phase of the legislature to take some steps forward together: the commission has already i say to the commission and the council: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. we hope for strong coordination within europe and the ability to speak with one voice in the international negotiations that are being opened, i think, in geneva. our report makes a number of points. i'll just quote a few: the commissioner said that there was a need for a win-win strategy, i.e. an allocation of resources that would satisfy both the audiovisual and media operators already present in the field - also to ensure cultural pluralism and the defence of cultural identities - and also to respond and provide adequate space for telecommunications sectors that need to develop new services, a wider network of technologies and also to respond to the new needs of modern consumers. this means that media and telecommunications will be able to play together, on equal terms and in a connected way. but there's a third subject i'd like to see win next to these: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's role in the field of telecommunications is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we must, on the one hand, agree - and parliament has agreed on this - to respect the responsibility of the member states in the allocation of the use of frequencies, but also to jointly promote the indispensable need for harmonisation, because we must all understand that if we do not harmonize, if we do not coordinate, if we do not decide together, the value of spectrum will also be reduced economically and socially. i am thinking of the positive and happy example of gsm. so, on the basis of cost-benefit analyses in the countries, on the basis of national projects, on the dividend that our report calls for, on the basis of all the discussion that must be held in the states, open to the operators, to the citizens, as broadly as possible, i believe that we must all, in the end, with a strong political capacity also at european level, highlight the added value of a european management of this resource and i believe that this too is a challenge for the european economy and society.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the slowdown in economic and productive growth in europe is unfortunately also affecting the telecommunications sector, which is currently undergoing a very critical phase. it is a sector which requires investment, which thrives on innovation and research, which also needs medium-term time to make its own choices. i therefore believe that we have a duty to give all possible support and that our package of reforms of the regulatory framework can also provide support for the revival of this sector by providing a stable, secure and effective legal framework. i believe that this is the meaning of our work in parliament, in the itre committee. we worked with this goal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. we have worked to create a competitive, open market, trying to also address the eternal question between old operators, even historical operators, former monopolists, and new operators, saying that there can be room for everyone in a balanced framework if there is entrepreneurial capacity, if there is design capacity and if there are also available resources. finally, i think we have stressed - and i think this is a crucial point - that in a more flexible and deregulated framework, the role of regulation, the different responsibilities, the chain of responsibility is central, and i agree with the commissioner's point: it is important that there is clarity of competences and definitions of tasks in the different actors dealing with the essential instrument of regulation. finally, a final point, which was then taken up by many colleagues and by the rapporteur, whose value and work we all appreciated, the role of the consumer: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank all the shadows and i would like to stress just two points. it has been said here that we have taken a concrete approach and i think that this thread, let us say, marks all our work, in the agreements that have been made and those that will have to be made. a concrete approach means that we have looked realistically at the interests at stake, the value of the industries, the work of workers in this sector and therefore the weight it has in the european economy as a whole, but also very much at the role of the citizen, the consumer, starting with the most fragile who can benefit from the arrival of digital technology if, of course, they are accompanied in this transformation, i know that some countries, france itself, are carrying out information campaigns and accompanying this transition, but these citizens may also have disadvantages if they are not followed precisely. we have therefore looked at the consumer, the user, from the point of view of the possibility of having new services, including telecommunications services, more adapted to new needs, to the possibility of being more informed, more integrated in the great game of computer networks. i think that when europe takes this approach, that is to say, the market also from the consumer's point of view, it is a europe that is closer to the citizens and i think that the initiative on roaming and costs has made europe known positively to many citizens and young people, who perhaps did not understand well what weight it had in the concrete decisions for their lives and for their finances and their budget, even personal. the second reference is to a balanced approach. i believe that a balanced approach is needed between the many interests at stake, even if they are conflicting, as trautmann mentioned, but also between the many sectors involved: i think about the digital dividend. the fact that we have said that there is room for the various operators, from telecommunications to audiovisual media, in a way that has seen the meeting of the bodies of the committee on culture and the committee on industry, etc., i think means that we have also tried here and i hope that we have succeeded in having a balanced approach. finally, i would like to see a strong european approach. it would be incomprehensible to me if legitimate subsidiarity requirements, the inalienable powers of the member states, prevented the exploitation of the added value that europe must be able to exploit. i would appeal to the commission and the council to enhance this capacity for coordination and harmonization, which i regard as the political guide of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, in conclusion i would like to say that there is unanimous support in the council, and broad support in the european parliament, for extending the duration of enisa for three years. both arms of the legislature agreed to reach a first-reading agreement as soon as possible, in time before the automatic expiry of the current regulation. as i understand it, the council plans to adopt the amending regulation as an ‘a’ point at a forthcoming council meeting. the problem would then be resolved and, after the commission has presented a paper on the basic problems underlying the cyber-attacks, parliament can then take that on board and start a real debate on the future of our responses in that area.
the debate is closed.
the report by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the impact of marketing and advertising on equality between women and men (2008/2038 ((ini)) is on the agenda.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 september 2008 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the cloning of animals for food by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0069/2008 - b6-0545/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, the opinion of the european parliament on this new technology and its consequences is of course of the utmost importance for me and i welcome the views of the honourable members. in particular, i wish to say that efsa’s opinion gives us new food for thought, and many factors need to be taken into account. i agree that novel food is not the right tool to deal with the question of food from cloned animals and this is something that can be discussed during our deliberations on the proposal for novel food. i wish, however, to make a clarification here because i heard a number of speakers speaking about cloning and genetic modification as if they were one and the same thing. no: genetic modification and cloning are two separate techniques. expert opinion states that cloning does not alter genetic material and clones are merely genetic copies of animals. in finalising my comments, i wish to assure you that in any future actions the commission will carefully examine all factors at play.
the debate is closed. i have received the motion for a resolution. b6-0373/2008 on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 september 2008 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has already mentioned, we have had occasion to discuss the subject of the classification, labelling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures, known by the acronym ghs, for which i am the rapporteur, on several occasions in recent months. for this reason, instead of going back to the technical details of the dossier, i should like to begin by thanking the colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs with whom we have worked on a basis of great cooperation and transparency, establishing a constructive and extremely satisfactory dialogue. i would like to thank you in particular for the support and confidence you have shown me, which has enabled me to have the figures to bring the negotiations with the council and the commission to a successful conclusion. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the committees responsible for opinions, mrs laperouze, rapporteur for the itre committee, and mr schwab, rapporteur for the imco committee, which is involved in the enhanced cooperation procedure. the opinions adopted by these two committees have in fact completed and enriched the proposal by making it more effective and simple for end users: consumers, businesses, trade associations, supervisory authorities and member states. i would therefore like to point out the excellent work done by the officials of parliament and the groups that have attended us, as well as those of the commission and the council. in the last few months we have all been working in the same direction, trying to reduce the number of amendments as much as possible and converging towards particular compromise solutions. after two months of technical tables and trilogues with the other institutions, we have reached a satisfactory compromise package with the council, approved by coreper on 27 june, which, if today's vote is positive, will allow us to close on first reading. with this new legislation, we need to maintain our international commitments and thus ensure consistency of content between the un ghs and our legislation, and we must also respect the deadlines already set by our own legislation in reach. this new regulation will at the same time help to protect the users of these substances better and make our companies more competitive and efficient. with these new rules, which are the same everywhere in the world, we are going to avoid the same product being considered more or less harmful in different countries. it wasn't like that until today! this is not only illogical, since the same substance presents the same danger everywhere, but it is also extremely risky when these products are exported from one country to another and end up being used by people who have no idea of the danger of the product they are using. i therefore believe that not only for users but also for workers in this sector, especially in the many small and mediumsized enterprises, the proposal we are making can be a useful answer for all our citizens and for all europeans and beyond.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a case like this, which we all agree on, our debate is likely to be repetitive, and i shall just make three very brief political points, fully endorsing what has been said by my predecessors. the first, of course, is an appreciation of the very tenacious work that our rapporteur has carried out from the beginning. from the very first meetings we have had a political will to close the dossier at first reading. we were almost forced to do so, we were pulled by the hair, but we were all convinced of the need for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products concerned is not compromised by the use of the substances in question. secondly, we have averted a danger that existed, which was looming, namely that of reopening old discussions that had been shelved with the adoption of reach, which i particularly wanted to see. as regards the international dimension, i think it is also a source of satisfaction that reach is increasingly being referred to at international level by other countries which are using it as a model for adapting their legislation. in any event, the provisions which we are about to vote on and which refer to the classification of substances are being adapted and supplemented to correspond to the main regulations on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures without adding any new elements. finally, as all colleagues know, the ghs is not the final word on the subject of classification and labelling of substances. it should not be forgotten that this is an ongoing process, for the time being we are implementing what already exists, we are classifying substances for which a risk analysis has already been carried out at the un. when new findings on risk category, new analyses are produced, ghs will be updated accordingly and it is therefore a continuous process.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent work of mrs sartori seems to be the ideal legislative outcome for updating and thus better regulating the treatment of chemicals. it is commendable that the report not only meets the united nations harmonisation programme but also appears to be consistent, taking into account the needs of producers and consumers and, of course, i would say the environment as far as is objectively possible. as usual, some of my colleagues are not satisfied, and i have the impression that this is due to an ideological radicalisation of technological and scientific progress which all too often, in the name of protecting the environment, seeks to coerce man. it is also the case that, for reasons radically opposed to those mentioned, those non-european states, china in particular, which, in the name of the absolute primacy of the economy, set up conditions for the production, transport and storage of chemical materials in gross disregard of everything that is rightly sought to be protected here, do the same. the sartori report is a major step forward in harmonizing the classification of substances and the labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures. this certainly contributes to improving safety and preventing hazards to the health and safety of consumers, workers and the environment. it is possible today for the same substance to be classified in a profoundly different way from one state to another, by virtue of the different classification system in force, with fluctuations which for the same substance are strongly and dangerously different. substances classified as dangerous in europe are, for example, labelled in china without any special precautions. this, in addition to giving unfair competitive advantages, represents a serious danger for all consumers, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is all the more true in an unfortunately global market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sartori, the shadow rapporteurs, the council and the commission on reaching agreement on the ghs package at first reading. we have succeeded in achieving our stated objective of starting the new system on time and in compliance with the reach regulation, while ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and health, as well as the commercial needs of companies that will be able to access foreign markets more easily. once the ghs is in place, companies will be able to operate under a single internationally harmonised substance classification system, which will, among other things, provide easier access to substance legislation at the chemicals agency. with this regulation, which applies international criteria for the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures in the european union, we will prepare companies to open up to the international market. the benefits to the consumer will also be clear, since he will be able to recognise dangerous substances, such as toxic, irritating and corrosive substances, easily. the ghs labelling information system with uniform and easily readable pictograms will facilitate the identification of the hazards of substances in everyday products such as detergents and soaps. in addition, the ghs, which requires special safety devices for closing packaging for many substances, will help to protect our children from dangerous domestic accidents due to accidental ingestion of toxic or corrosive substances. of course, the ghs will be a cost to businesses, especially small and mediumsized businesses, who will have to get used to the new system. the system will introduce seven new risk categories and a new classification of the transport system. that is why i am particularly pleased with the agreement reached with the council which took account of the needs of support, information and training, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. the agreement also took account of the wish expressed by all the groups in parliament to limit animal testing and any duplication of tests to the greatest possible extent. for all these reasons my group will vote in favour of the package.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the debate that took place. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken and i also thank the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the itre and imco committees for the words of encouragement they have given to the work i have done, but i do so together with them. i think that the vast majority of the members who have spoken are satisfied with the result achieved. i share the opposition of those who say that ghs is also an ongoing process and therefore, on the other hand, it is a way of working that we have set up; i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. this is also what i have taken from the speech by the commissioner who preceded me on the possibility of also hosting part of the debate that took place. we are aware that we are adopting today a regulation which is widely accepted, which will help, which will bring benefits to consumers and workers in this sector, who are the vast majority of the population. we know that they are rules that serve as a framework and as certain and untouchable points of reference. after that there is a world that keeps changing and referring to these rules will be by the commission dealt with.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of the resolution and i would also like to thank mr elmar brok for his efforts to achieve a broad consensus here. i believe that, while there is a need for dialogue with russia, we must ensure that we do not become totally dependent on russia in energy policy or remain largely dependent on russia, because this also significantly reduces the possibility of discussion. it must also be remembered that georgia's military response is a result of a long-running and recently very intense provocation by the separatist forces and that this measure of self-defence for russia was the reason for the invasion. nevertheless, we should make a peaceful settlement of the conflict a top priority, and i wish all those involved success as soon as possible so that crimea, latvia, lithuania and kazakhstan do not eventually follow south ossetia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, on a small island in sardinia, some separatists from the sardinian independence party, using peaceful methods and ecological intentions, proclaimed a republic with the poetic and polynesian-sounding name of the 'republic of maluventu'. the president has already received the charter inspired by the un charter and the sacred principle of self-determination of peoples, and i would like to draw your attention to it. europe is always in solidarity with those who fight for freedom by peaceful and democratic means! long live the struggle of the sardinian people for self-determination!
in writing. - i vote in favour of this resolution, hoping for a rapid and peaceful end to this very serious crisis. i think it is necessary to stress two points: the principle of the inviolability of the territorial integrity of the various states is inviolable, and on the other hand, it must be stressed that the rights of the minorities present must be fully respected. the international community's voice is undoubtedly weaker and less credible after the kosovo incident, but diplomatic efforts must be stepped up to reach a credible and concrete solution. but as the world's embassies are at work, there is an urgent need to respond to the growing humanitarian crisis linked to the presence of a growing number of refugees. the european union must be the initiator of a task force to alleviate the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people in distress. i'm in contact with the international unicef representative who confirms the absolute gravity of the situation: i hope that the european commission, as in other situations, will do its part.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the resolution tabled by mr parish on the cloning of animals for food production. i share the reasons behind it and the concerns it raises. it is true that in the past the most "revolutionary" innovations were met with suspicion and only brought benefits in the medium to long term; it is also true that the subject of such a resolution could fall into this category. however, the dangers of cloning animals for food should be seriously considered on three main fronts: food safety, the health of cloned animals and their genetic and zootechnical diversity. these aspects are obviously interrelated. i therefore welcome the initiative and am confident that measures will be taken to safeguard our health by maintaining the high quality of the food we eat, as well as the health of the animals.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken a positive view of the text, especially after some amendments and, i dare say, some improvements, which were made thanks to our amendments, which were accepted by mrs flautre and i hereby certify her openness. this report adds interesting new elements, new approaches to the subject, (seeing the environmental issue as a sufficient reason to adopt restrictive measures). my group wanted to stress the importance of setting clear conditions, achievable objectives and appropriate benchmarks when applying these sanctions. in addition, to make them more effective, he tried to emphasise that they should be as targeted as possible - commissioner ferrero-waldner has just emphasised this - these sanctions should not involve civilians, for example, and should not lead to indiscriminate measures that isolate the population. in one paragraph of the report, it was requested that un sanctions be preferred to eu sanctions. it is a matter of urgency that the european union should be able to take action to ensure that the sanctions are not applied in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment. they are called secret services because they must be able to act in secret but not with impunity, not in violation of international law. of course, there must be a political assessment by the european union of sanctions and the actions we take must have a substantial impact, failing which the sanctions themselves must be reviewed. but the report calls for the establishment of networks of independent experts to assess these sanctions, as mrs flautre said in her speech. our group prefers that the council itself should take the appropriate decisions, since it is more competent and more legitimate than experts outside the system who are not controlled by governments. it is in this spirit that we propose that the new amendment to paragraph 70 which will be tabled tomorrow by the greens, the pse and the alde group in the house be voted against, and that is precisely the request. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. i think that the proposal to find more uniform criteria for sanctions policy is also a timely one. i would like to stress one specific point which is contained in paragraph 6 of the report and which concerns crimes and environmental destruction. it is proposed that this kind of voluntary action should also be subject to sanctions and i think that this proposal should be taken seriously. the limit of sanctions policy is often inconsistency, but it is above all linked to the limit of the common foreign and security policy of the european union: the more strong and consistent that policy is, the stronger and more consistent a sanctions regime can be. the problem we have as the european union is that we are often too timid or too difficult to find the necessary consensus across the member countries to lift sanctions that we are unable and powerless to react to. i would like to take this opportunity of the french presidency to remind you that in the face of a regime like burma it is clear that excluding energy from the list of sanctions makes those sanctions very ineffective. in addition, there is the question of human rights and democracy, which should be the priority of international policy and therefore also the priority of sanctions policy. it's not like that! so it is not starting from a problem which is mentioned in the flautre report in paragraphs 18 and 19, that of cooperation agreements where we have clauses, rules which require respect for human rights, they are clauses which bind the european union. these clauses are systematically ignored. so before we can even get to sanctions, we need to find mechanisms to make these clauses effective. they are negotiating new ones, negotiating new ones with vietnam and other asian countries. we must find gradual mechanisms to avoid, i say, the president, that we reach a sanction, but we can only do that if we respect the legality, the clauses, the written agreements that our union signs.
i would like to thank mrs flautre for her good work, but this was at least partly distorted in the committee on foreign affairs during the vote, and this led the socialist and green groups to abstain, while only the people's party and the liberal group approved the substantially amended text, precisely because the adoption of a number of their amendments changed the political balance, and i recall that our group voted against it in committee. as a group we note that the 13 amendments tabled, even if approved, are not capable of changing the overall political line of the report and therefore, while voting in favour of the majority of the amendments, our final vote remains critical. the problem - we believe - is that international relations must be based on dialogue and mutual respect, even when there are differences of opinion. sanctions as such should be the last resort for states and international organisations, while the report praises them as the principal instrument of the union's foreign policy. we also believe that priority should be given to so-called positive incentive measures. a state must be rewarded if it undertakes to promote and respect human rights by signing specific agreements in the economic, commercial and financial fields. the report instead insists on negative measures, however, coincidentally, always against the usual countries such as, for example, cuba: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i mean, more cooperation and less unilateral punishment. nor does the european union have a monopoly on rights, as is shown by the intolerable way in which we treat migrants and the roma. maybe we should just sanction ourselves!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 september 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the declarations by the council and the commission on the millennium development goal 5 'improving maternal health'.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked on the joint motion for a resolution on maternal mortality, bearing in mind that objective 5 'reducing maternal mortality by 75% by 2015' is far from being achieved and requires a strong initiative, a strong and concrete initiative by the international community, of which the europe of rights and values can only be the interpreter and guarantor. we have noted the reassuring statements made by mr jouyet and mrs ferrero, but we must quickly move from statements to facts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as all of us remember, most of these women live in sub-saharan africa, where one death occurs every minute, and, as mentioned, the comparison with women living in the west for the same risk is 1 in 3,700. these figures are made all the more dramatic by the encouraging progress made in the same years by some middle-income countries in east asia, southeast asia, north america, latin america and north africa, showing that this repugnant situation can be overcome. the resolution is therefore, in our view, timely, articulate and comprehensive and identifies appropriate strategies to address this truly global health emergency, recognising that access to an adequate level of health care is a fundamental human right. in conclusion, i hope that the commendable compromise reached between the groups on such a divisive issue will find the widest possible convergence in the assembly and that the adoption of the joint resolution will urge all our institutions and every country to take concrete action and adequate investment in infrastructure and transport, health care, training of workers, education, prevention and policies for the emancipation of women, in order to achieve this important goal of civilization in 2015.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that we must work to ensure that women can perform their maternal duties in the best possible health. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. but i cannot hide the unease that comes from the international misuse of the term "reproductive health services": we want reproductive health services, but we cannot accept that they include voluntary abortion, so that it is transformed from the dramatic suppression of human beings at the dawn of their existence into a social service. i think that in a document on maternal health it should not be forgotten that motherhood is a two-person affair, not a one-person affair. i therefore find it very gratifying that the compromise resolution actually refers to both the declaration and the convention on the rights of the child, which also recognize the name of the child before birth and require special services from both the mother and the child. i therefore think it would be appropriate for the documents designed to ensure the safety of maternity to always mention, in addition to the other instruments already mentioned, those aimed at giving birth preference to abortion. this is solidarity, economic, social and psychological aid and education in respect for life. on the other hand, if you limit yourself to insisting on the use of contraception only, perhaps including abortion, you will not get the desired results. there are countries in europe, such as france and england, where contraception is certainly much more widespread than in other countries, and where, conversely, abortion is steadily increasing, as has been officially reported. i would simply ask my colleagues to give a little thought to these observations of mine.
the agenda includes the report by mr syed kamall, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade in services (2008/2004 (ini)) (a6-0283/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the uen group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kamall, on the excellent quality of his work. the services sector - as he himself recalled - is still the most important voice in almost the whole world, even in africa and asia it is the most important voice in gdp. but it is this strategic sector which must give the most economic growth, especially to the countries which are still suffering from underdevelopment, the report has the merit of highlighting the significant growth of trade in services as a vehicle for greater prosperity and stability, especially for those countries which are still to develop. the exchange of services is also a transfer of knowledge between countries and citizens, and the freedom of such exchanges, within a system of shared and respected rules, is therefore fundamental to any growth strategy. but no one should pretend to want to export or import models to others: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new road of liberalization must therefore be pursued with the understanding that governments must adapt to the needs of their citizens and not - as has unfortunately sometimes happened in africa - when they are unable to provide basic services such as water or energy, then sell these possibilities to provide services to economic companies linked to governments in other countries, because there is obviously the risk of economic and political problems and security, also at international level. the failure of doha has unfortunately affected everyone, the european union, the industrialized countries, but above all - we think - the poorer countries. we hope that this report will once again send a strong signal for a return to harmonious development of society as a whole.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there has been talk of liberalizing banking systems, but we all know that after basle ii there has been a monopolistic drift of these financial systems and we have seen the suppression of entire businesses, of entire economic entities, due precisely to this monopolization of the financial system. so i think we should go back to the old system, the cooperative system, which in rural areas or in many other parts of europe, gave the lifeblood to small private enterprises and families to move forward. so we are really talking and acting in a liberalising and not monopolistic way in a very important area such as banking, which affects the lives of families and businesses throughout europe!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 september 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing systems, such as the electronic data-processing system, to the whole of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, towns and cities have developed around ports, and these ports are linked to the development of our peoples. it is therefore very important that the operation of these ports be smooth and regular and that the law should prevail. i must remind you that there are two ports in italy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in particular, illegal imports of products, for example from china, are organised and then infiltrate the economic fabric. and then there are mafia-like organizations which have organized the clearly illegal import of drugs and weapons and have thus undermined and are undermining the economy and public order of our people and indeed of all of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ries' report is absolutely unimpeachable, especially since the rapporteur is continually monitoring and verifying, also through the question, the implementation of the actions envisaged by the commission and is even calling for further efforts in the desired preventive strategy which must characterize the actions of european policy. i also welcome the calls for the green paper to be timely and for pollution of confined spaces to be avoided, and i would stress the sensitivity shown by the rapporteur to the health impact of electromagnetic fields on humans. in short, what mrs ries has said is absolutely agreed and i hope that this report will receive the widest possible support from parliament.
i would remind those who were not able to speak that they can attach the written statement which will enable them to put their explanations of vote on the record. written declarations of vote
in writing. - mr president, i vote in favour of this document, but i would like to stress that this is yet another act of this parliament adopted in support of respect for human rights in this part of the world: what are the effects of our statements? unfortunately, almost none, beyond the political solidarity expressed. on this issue europe - if it is to be credible - must speak with one voice and put international security above individual national interests. i believe it is essential to strike a balance between two needs: the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. if you separate the two, it becomes rather difficult to find a credible synthesis and a lasting solution. i hope that in the future our european union, which is so interested in peace in this part of the world which is close to us, will be able to play a more effective mediating role than in the past.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we face iran as a global and nuclear threat, there is a strong political and diplomatic action that leads us to involve, for example, russia, and never as iran shows us how the issue of human rights should be an integral part of our common international and security policy, because at the root of iran as a nuclear danger is first of all the daily violence that that regime does to iranian citizens and so this is what we have to deal with. i hope the commissioner can tell us even more about how we are able to use the funds to promote democracy and the rule of law. in iran, we know that it is very difficult to reach the democratic opposition. then there is the general question of the death penalty, which was voted on by the un, and there has been a great push from this european parliament for a moratorium, for a global suspension. it is time to strengthen this position and to propose to the un that a special envoy of the secretary-general on the death penalty be appointed. i propose it with an oral amendment and i hope the groups will approve it.
member of the commission. − mr president, we share parliament’s outrage at the increasing number of attacks in tanzania against the albino population and at the abhorrent and illegal trade in albino body parts linked to traditional medicine, to superstition and to the practices of witch doctors. in particular, we share the concerns recently reported by the un committee on the elimination of discrimination against women that, for instance, albino women and girls have been targeted very specifically in ritual killings. we condemn all forms of discrimination and victimisation, and we are committed to supporting policies and actions aimed at eradicating them. the government of tanzania, too, it must be said, is committed to stamping out these practices and raising awareness of the plight of the albino population. therefore, we welcome the nomination of an albino member of parliament, the recent arrests of some witch doctors, and the president’s commitment, as has been mentioned, to bringing those responsible to justice. we also closely monitor the human rights situation in general in tanzania, together with member states and other development partners. several member states and other partners are supporting organisations, such as the legal and human rights centre, which regularly monitor possible human rights violations. as a member of the donor group on governance, the commission will continue to coordinate donor responses to addressing the problem, including the albino association. the commission will also, with member states in tanzania, raise the problem in its political dialogue with the tanzanian authorities. the eur 3 million edf-funded civil society programme will help to create awareness: workshops are being organised to highlight the albino situation and a new sensitisation campaign is shortly to be implemented in the mwanza region of northern tanzania. so, in general, we use our regular dialogues to refer to this issue. these questions are, of course, also being raised in our ongoing exercise concerning public funds and the health, education and employment sectors. we believe that an independent and functioning judicial system is vital. therefore, we, the commission, in our contacts with the authorities, will underline the importance of appropriate legal action being taken against the perpetrators of these horrible acts. we will also contact the honourable kway-geer, the first albino member of parliament in tanzania (she has already been mentioned), and discuss possible actions with her, because she can tell us even better what can be done. finally, together with the presidency in tanzania, we will discuss this issue at the 60th anniversary of the signature of the universal declaration of human rights planned in tanzania on 10 december 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the amendments i propose at the end of the resolution. i apologize for doing so at this last minute on a matter concerning the moratorium on the death penalty at the un, on which parliament has already spoken three times and which is why i feel i can only do so as an oral amendment. the two paragraphs i propose are these (i read them very slowly in english): calls for the presentation of a resolution, at the next un general assembly, with a request to all countries that retain the death penalty to make available to the un secretary-general and to public opinion all information on capital punishment and executions, so as to overcome the state secret on the death penalty, which is also a direct cause of a greater number of executions. the second paragraph is as follows:calls for the new resolution to foresee the figure of a special envoy of the secretary-general, with the task of monitoring the situation, ensuring maximum transparency in the capital punishment system and favouring an internal process directed at the implementation of the united nations resolution on the moratorium on executions. i understand that this is an additional issue on the iran issue, but it is also an issue on which we must be timely. i ask you to grant this addition to our resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week has been a particularly sad and difficult one for the issues and for those who deal with the issues of freedom and racism. in italy, last thursday, six people were killed by the camorra, six migrants from various african countries, who were accused first of all of being pushers, criminals, and then later it turned out that they were not at all; and a black boy was beaten to death in milan. at the same time, in cologne we had an incredible response from that city to the same issues, to the issues of racism, to the issues of discrimination. i believe that europe is presenting two very different faces at this time. and i think that this parliament will have to start dealing with the subject of racism again in a much more active way than it has been doing lately, because in many countries - including my own - this issue is coming back to the fore in a most tragic way!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am glad that the commissioner is also taking up this subject, and i hope that he will do so not only in his short speech but also in the commission, because we must of course see that the european commission also implements our wishes and ideas. the title of my report, or of the report of the committee on agriculture, which unanimously approved it, is 'the situation and prospects of mountain farming' and it is clear that it reflects only part of what is actually contained in this report. the report states that we must make policy for an area which in some member states covers up to 50% of the total area, in italy, austria and spain for example, in some member states over a third of the total area, and which in the european union as a whole is home to 19% of the population. a field that can be described as uniquely multifunctional and extremely sensitive. an area that is much more affected by climate change, for example, in the alps than in the lowlands. mountain areas are disadvantaged in many ways: because of their steepness and slope, because of weather conditions, erosion, altitude differences, altitude, rock deposits. we need a comprehensive strategy for these mountain areas, not just an agricultural policy which has borne fruit, which must be strengthened, but which is not enough for mountain areas alone. the old, well-established methods must therefore be maintained, but new and old methods must be combined to preserve agriculture as the lifeblood of mountain areas, and other important areas must also be included: the sustainable use of nature in its various forms, the creation and improvement of transport networks, not only physical transport but also data transfer, i.e. the internet and communications, the improvement and strengthening of municipal and local services - which are all the more difficult in these areas because of the dispersion - and the strengthening of the social fabric. the new needs to be integrated, such as training and continuing training, sensitivity to the richness of species in the natural environment, adaptation to climate change, which has already been mentioned. the report, which was adopted unanimously by the committee on agriculture, deals with this subject in 13 recitals and 72 paragraphs. a framework strategy will be developed, building on the sectoral efforts made so far. the text therefore called on the european commission to draw up and implement within six months an overall strategy with a wide range of instruments, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and in cooperation with national action plans drawn up by the member states and local and regional authorities. i hope that the approval of the plenary will be similar to that of the committee on agriculture, and i ask the commissioner to intervene in the commission accordingly and to point out that the achievement of the mountain population is an achievement for the whole population which must bear fruit and be rewarded accordingly, an achievement in ecological and touristic terms which must be taken into account because it guarantees that there is no depopulation, as for example in piedmont, in lombardy, in parts of spain or france.
in writing. this report contains everything imaginable, really "herbs and beets", the result of a quick brainstorming on agriculture and mountain areas. it is a catalogue of wishes and demands, with idioms and clichés, with repetitions and contradictions, with which one cannot agree, although everyone can find something beautiful in it. the biggest contradiction is between the ecosocially damning statements and the hardline policy of our colleague michl ebner and his party in everyday life. a truly sustainable economic and nutritional approach must be at the heart of a sustainable european agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the ecological farming industry must get out of its niche. we greens do not support a subsidy policy for the big players in the world market. we want to strengthen local and regional food markets, provide farmers with a decent income and guarantee consumers fresh and healthy food. this form of management is also the best protection for the cultural landscape and the environment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, after seven years of fighting terrorism, i believe we have learned to properly assess the risks of terrorism, its effects and its devastating consequences. and i think one of the most dramatic consequences is the loss of balance, of a sense of balance in responding to the threat of terrorism. the balance needed to investigate the deep, not superficial, causes of this violence, the balance needed to implement policies of prevention and repression, without abandoning the fundamental principles of our legal civilization. it is a valuable and difficult balance, because it must be translated into rules which leave no room for arbitrariness. the commission's initiative to revise the 2002 framework decision is therefore welcome, provided that attention is paid to the very precise indications that have come from the two reports we are discussing today. the first indication: we must avoid the culture of suspicion, mr minister and commissioner, we must base our society on suspicion, we must imagine that integration and immigration policies based on mutual distrust would be a gift to terrorism, because terrorism is primarily about creating divisions. that is why, when we think about terrorist offences, we prefer the more legally consistent and more timely concept of public incitement to the concept of provocation, which seems to us to be a generic and subjective concept. i think it is a less confused, less subjective principle and it is not a question of terminology, commissioner, it is a question of substance: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and all of this brings us to the second risk we need to avoid: the fight against terrorism must be seen as a justification for the revision, restriction and reduction of fundamental rights. we expect these two reports to send a clear and unambiguous signal on this point: the challenge facing us as legislators is to combine the fight against terrorism and its preparations with respect for the charter of fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression and freedom of association, without which our civilisations would regress to the times of barbarism. and we must be honest, commissioner, the risk is that the fight against terrorism will become a clash of civilizations or religions, that racist slogans will be fabricated; that the european union will not be able to cope with the crisis. it is a very real risk: the fact that the meeting in cologne a few days ago was attended by an irresponsible member of this parliament, mr borghezio, shows this, and it must therefore be said forcefully, it must be said here, it must be said by this parliament: fascist intolerance has nothing to do with fighting terrorism! this is also the direction in which the two reports we are discussing are taking their valuable work: the european union must not be left to the mercy of the united states, which is the only country in the world to have a nuclear weapon. we ask the council and the commission to keep a close eye on this, mr president, mr minister and mr commissioner, and we guarantee the utmost cooperation from this parliament.
i would like to inform my colleagues that the french presidency has correctly apologized in advance of the start of the debate and has informed them that minister dati was unable to attend because of force majeure and that minister jouyet, who replaced her, was unable to attend. the substance of his appeal remains, which we shall pass on, but i would like to stress that the french presidency's apology was received in advance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am also sorry that the french minister has left, he could have learned, for example, that the information he has given us is wrong information. in fact, mr dührkop is right when he says that the vast majority of terrorist attacks in the european union are of an independentist nature and have nothing to do with al qaeda, as the minister has said. it could have broken this suggestive equation, which is often proposed to us, between islam and terrorism. it is a vocation which is often made and which unfortunately also has responsibilities in this parliament, i am thinking of the attitude taken by mr borghezio at the recent demonstration in cologne, who, if this framework decision were valid, would certainly be accused of inciting terrorism. i would call mr borghezio's activity that and i formally ask, on behalf of my group, that the presidency of this parliament should take action by issuing a formal warning to mr borghezio. i believe that the strategy adopted in recent years in the fight against terrorism has been a losing strategy, too subordinate to the interests of the united states in the war in iraq and afghanistan, in the formulation of the list of terrorist organizations, in the limitation of the rule of law. the processing of personal data is too often abused and i believe that we must all contribute - and i conclude - to preventing the restriction of individual freedoms, to increasing the scope for democracy and to preventing the fight against terrorism and security from contributing to the objectives proposed by the terrorist organisations themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, may the european parliament defend freedom of speech throughout europe - including in cologne, because cologne is europe - for those who want to speak out against islamic fundamentalism and totalitarianism, the ideological matrix not of islam but of fundamentalist islam and terrorism. then let's stop censoring and defend the law! here we are trying to smuggle in and defend the right to freedom by giving anyone who wants the opportunity in the mosques to speak in favour of terrorism, to include a few words against racism and xenophobia, and then we can no longer censor them, we can no longer prevent them from making propaganda. we've been forbidden to speak, and that's why i'm gagging!
i think, i gather, from your choice to keep your mouth shut, that we are at the conclusion of the intervention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports seek to reconcile, as usual, data protection and the prevention of terrorism. of course, we all hope to strengthen the fight and win the war on terrorism, but frankly i do not know if the amount we discuss - like all the compromises - in view of the duplicity of intentions, does not end up diminishing the scope of the initiatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. but what is certain is that the citizens of the union are suffering from continuous, suffocating controls on their privacy, and it is equally certain that this is absolutely useless in protecting us from terrorists. in fact, despite their worldwide control of communications and the movement of people, they continue to proselytize and sow death. unfortunately, our initiatives do not reach the criminal hand of a certain islamic radicalism, which perhaps should be fought differently from the way we do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this morning many people here spoke of the war on terrorism, only to find that it is difficult to wage war against something that has no concrete form, that has no army, that has no territory, but is simply a tactic. this strange war has not been won, certainly, and it is unlikely that it will be won, but it has had some positive results, if you consider that the united states has not suffered any more attacks since 9/11. but these successes have come at a high price, and the rapporteur, mrs lefrançois, is understandably concerned that the line between freedom of expression and violation of the law is blurred, and that the desire to improve the security of european citizens may in practice lead to a reduction in the rights and freedoms of those same citizens. it is very difficult to find a balance between these two needs, not least because we are in unknown territory: terrorism is too recent a phenomenon to have any precedent to build on, to have any experience to draw lessons from. there is no doubt that in the name of the war on terror, illegal acts have been committed, and especially by the country that has fought against terrorism the most and also in our interest, namely the united states, because there is a price to pay to contain terrorism, and that is the restriction of civil liberties. on the other hand, it is also easy to avoid making mistakes when you do little or nothing. so we in the european union, if we want to ensure a safer future, must do more, we must coordinate more the action of the member states, the initiatives of the intelligence services and above all not leave the burden of this responsibility to the united states alone, so that perhaps we could also try to assert our principles, our ideas on that elusive border that separates the security of citizens from the violation of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the pensioners and the pensioners' party who have sent me here to the european parliament, i would like to express our opinion on how to combat terrorism: the financial resources of the european parliament and of europe must be used more to alleviate the suffering of the people, from whom the terrorists draw most aid. these funds must be controlled so that they are used for the benefit of the people and not for the illegitimate interests of some corrupt rulers and so yes to the marshall plan of the italian prime minister silvio berlusconi to help the people of palestine.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would first like to congratulate the whole of the european parliament on the quality of this debate. it is true that the european parliament legitimately expects the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, but it has shown its maturity this morning by winning a very large majority in favour of your two reports - mrs lefrançois's report and mrs roure's report. these two reports seek to strike a fair balance between the collective protection against terrorism which we must guarantee to our citizens and the protection of individual freedoms. i believe that it is in this double balance that we must find the right solutions. i shall briefly echo the discussion, mr president. i would like to return to mrs lefrançois' report on the fight against terrorism. i would like to point out that while freedom of expression, including the right to criticise, is one of the fundamental pillars on which the european union is founded, incitement to racial hatred cannot be considered admissible under the pretext of freedom of expression. racist speech is an abuse of freedom of expression and cannot be tolerated. secondly, i would like to point out that the commission's proposal was drawn up on the basis of a thorough impact assessment. there has been a lot of consultation and the commission's proposal is indeed based on the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism and we have tried to follow the balanced wording of offences in that convention. if mrs lefrançois and the many members who have joined in this term of incitement allow me, i would like to advocate the term provocation for a few minutes: the advantage of the term 'provocation' is that it is new. that is why the council of europe has used it. this new approach allows for a common and precise definition in the european union. provocation is not an open concept, it can be, i believe, well defined by case law. the truth is that we want to prevent a terrorist attack in order to incriminate those who, in particular, by their words, called for it, even if the attack does not take place, and that is the whole difficulty. but i am counting on the wisdom of dialogue between the council and parliament to find a solution. i would also like to say that the current text of the framework decision contains in article 1 (2) a clause on the protection of human rights which concerns - and i think mrs lefrançois agrees - the whole of the framework decision. mr president, i would like to stress the importance of including this action against terrorism in the integrated institutional framework of the european union. we have here, in fact, an assurance of effectiveness through the incorporation of this text into european law. this will allow for a uniform legal regime for specific acts as regards the nature and level of criminal sanctions and jurisdictional rules. this will allow the european union's cooperation mechanisms to be applied, which refer to the 2002 framework decision. in conclusion, mr president, while i thank the rapporteur and parliament again for all the work that has been done over the past two years on this important subject, i would like to hope that a decision will be taken quickly now, given all the work that has been done and the need - as many of you have stressed - to fight effectively against terrorism. so i now come to the second text which is inseparable from the first and i think parliament has done a very good job of linking them, demanding at the same time data protection and protection of personal freedom. so i thank, of course, mrs roure, who has defended with great energy this balance and data protection. the text must be accompanied by the text on the fight against terrorism so that the law enforcement agencies will have specific data protection rules in the near future. of course, as i said, and i do not want to dwell on this, the commission would have liked, like parliament, to go further on data protection from the outset. the minister, jean-pierre jouyet, said that the french presidency, although inspired by the same concern, had to take account of the possibility of reaching a compromise. so i can simply say that the commission will try to make the most of the evaluation clause and recital 6a. we are therefore following your libe committee, and we will try to take account of your wish for a revision of the ambitious framework decision to assess the extension of its scope. that is what the commission can do and what i will try to do personally. i know that the european parliament would like this review to take place in the near future. i hope that the council will accept a revision within a time limit which will allow the european system to be brought into a proper balance in a short time. that is what i was trying to say, mr president. i would also like to say to each and every one of the speakers that i appreciated the quality of the debate on a major subject, on a subject where europe must be an example, both in ensuring effective collective protection against the threats of terrorism but also, of course, in remaining very attentive to the protection of individual freedoms and the autonomy of the person. i think that parliament has once again shown its maturity and its capacity to be a co-decision-maker in this area in the future.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
before adjournment, i would like to reassure the security services that there was a rumour that an individual had entered the chamber with his face covered. it was only mr borghezio who had been gagged in protest, so the chamber is not at risk from a security point of view. i would like to reassure the services. (the sitting was suspended at 12 noon for the vote and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to introduce a new crime of 'provocation' or 'public incitement to terrorism' in european law under the council of europe convention because i believe that the definition proposed by the commission is too vague and based on purely subjective elements, creating risks for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular for freedom of expression in europe. in fact, any public statement, or any message reported in the media, or posted on the internet, which could in any way directly or indirectly, on the basis of an 'intent' and with 'risks that crimes may be committed' be considered as an incitement to commit an act of terrorism, will be criminalised at european level. the stated goal is to target "terrorist propaganda" on the internet. the rapporteur has tried to clarify the european commission's text in order to make it more respectful of human rights, seeking to ensure greater legal certainty. i think that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a report on the situation in the community.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we met in this house in april 2007 for the first reading. it's september 2008, and i don't think this time has gone by in vain. many things have been achieved, many steps have been taken, and i remain confident that the last mile between us and the completion of a great task can be completed, namely to give europeans, all our citizens and not only them, all those who sail the seas of europe a security that is certainly better than the one they do not enjoy today. i do not only remember, as my colleagues sterckx, erika and prestige did, but i also want to - and this is the task i reserve for my sector report - to remember that we must avoid not only tragedies such as the princess of stars, with 800 dead in the philippines, but also the four deaths that occurred in the collision between a container vessel and a hydrofoil in the straits of messina or even the two deaths that occurred not more than a few days ago between la besogne and a bateau mouche in paris. in short, all waters are at risk, all waters need to be dealt with. anyway, the point is very simple: i think we cannot be in a position to regret that we have not taken the necessary decisions in the face of recurring accidents - and i insist - not only those which have concerned the protection of the environment, the coastlines and the seas, such as erika and prestige, but also human lives, such as the serious ones which have fortunately fallen into the sea far away from us so far - recently - but also those which are apparently smaller. i have just given two examples, one on the strait of messina and the other on the river seine a few days ago. my report also contains a strategy which i believe should be common to all of us: the commission's proposal is to make the best use of all the european expertise in environmental protection and consumer protection. in this case it means defending lives, defending people, defending safety and security to improve the situation compared to what we have at the moment. warning: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, from this point of view, i think we should continue to work, continue to work in the case of my report, i think to find ways of extending the scope of application that no one can deny, to find progressive ways of application in a reasonable period of time that allows everyone to adapt over time, without expecting it to happen tomorrow; that the limitation of liability is a way of combining certainty on the part of the shipowner as to the liability he assumes, the amount of damage he could incur, with certainty on the part of the potential injured party that he will be compensated in any event; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think we could easily reach agreement on these issues, we could find a way of responding to these remaining points and winding up the game. the key point remains, though: we cannot afford to touch just one point, we need to close and be able to tell the european citizens that we are working on all fronts, in all sectors! i do not want to repeat the theme of the two missing reports, the two missing measures. i acknowledge the great effort made by the french presidency and i am sure it will continue to do so. as far as i am concerned, as far as parliament is concerned, i can assure you that we will work every day, every moment, from now until 31 december of this year, to ensure that the game can be concluded under this presidency and that it can be concluded in the most useful way for all those who are watching us, convinced that in the end we can all be proud of having advanced maritime safety in europe, without anyone feeling, as it were, that they are losing responsibility which they feel they want to carry out directly.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very encouraged by your speeches. as almost all of you have said, agreement should be found quickly on the first six texts. i am of course a little disappointed that we have embarked on the path of conciliation but i feel very encouraged to continue our dialogue and bring it to fruition. i have heard your messages: you are committed to the responsibility of the states, to the need to be able to carry out investigations in a large number of cases, to the ratification of the imo conventions in particular, and you have emphasized that the package will not be broken down or cut up. i have heard it, and i will repeat it to the council at our meeting on 9 october. you know that the discussions will be complex and you have also stressed the time it has taken, too long, to get to where we are. but i say before you, our will is strong, it's intact. i hope that we will be able to work together to establish a complete, coherent system which ensures that all its actors are held to account. i think that maritime safety in europe is at that price. so we are making progress on the last two proposals and as you know we will be working on them until the last minute of our presidency. in the words of a well-known compatriot of commissioner tajani, president paolo costa and antonio gramsci, in these discussions we seek to 'balance the pessimism of our intelligence with the optimism of our will'. in any case, i thank parliament in advance for all it can do to encourage this optimism.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank mr bussereau for his continued commitment. i should like to go into the substance of the various reports and amendments which have been tabled. as regards the first vote, the report by mr sterckx on the monitoring of maritime traffic, i am very pleased that parliament has given its full support to the objectives set out in the commission's proposal. the most important provisions of the proposal are those concerning places of refuge. we fully support parliament's efforts to preserve the principle of independence in the decision-making process which allows the reception of a ship in distress in a place of refuge. the amendments which take up the substance of the proposal for a directive on mr kohlíček's report, civil liability and financial guarantees for shipowners, can be supported without reservations, with the exception of the two which refer to the establishment of a community office for the management of financial guarantee certificates. my services have doubts about the administrative and financial implications of this proposal, which we will have to examine in greater depth. on the other hand, i am pleased to read in mr kohlíček's report that parliament's support for the proposal on accident investigations is not diminished. the commission has also been sensitive to the argument raised in the council debate that in order to ensure the quality of investigations, it is necessary not to multiply them unnecessarily: what is important is that in addition to the cases of very serious accidents, an investigation be carried out so that lessons can be drawn from the understanding of the causes of the accident for the future. this objective, which corresponds to the imo solution, is guaranteed by the common position, so i cannot support amendments nos 7 and 13 or 14. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. while it is true that the commission proposal, as well as the common position, require member states to avoid conducting parallel investigations, it is also true that they do not deny the member states concerned the right to carry out their own investigations. in any event, it cannot be the commission's task to act as an arbiter between member states, each of which is convinced that it has an essential interest in carrying out an investigation. what is important in this case is to guarantee the independence of the investigating bodies. as regards compensation for passengers in the event of accidents, you know from the report by mr costa that the commission is determined to see the rights of passengers strengthened in all transport sectors and everywhere in europe. when the commission put forward this proposal three months ago, it had started from the following premise: if an accident happens in europe on board a vessel at sea or on a river, victims will not be adequately compensated because the applicable rules are too different from one member state to another and in fact appear to be substantially outdated, there is no compulsory insurance, the compensation ceilings are insufficient and the liability systems require that the victim be the one to provide proof that it is the fault of the carrier and this is a difficult proof to provide in the event of a shipwreck. in view of this, the commission saw only one solution: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. this is about implementing the athens convention. the negotiations are being conducted under the auspices of the imo and are being fully implemented in order to ensure that all victims receive compensation under the conditions and within the limits set by the convention. the council has shown that it is of the same opinion. all the amendments tabled by the european parliament are intended to give new meaning to the future regulation. so we support them wholeheartedly. as regards the scope of application, which must be as broad as possible, it cannot be denied that some national or river transport operators are experiencing difficulties. it would therefore be legitimate to implement the regulation in stages over time to allow for the necessary adjustments. i therefore support the amendments. at present, the maximum compensation depends on the size of the ship and the number of victims, and this is not acceptable. this must be remedied, inter alia, by making life insurance easier by setting a single european-wide ceiling for compensation. that is the subject of amendments nos 12, 13 and 14, part one, which the commission supports. i am extending my speech, mr president, because i think it is right to give an opinion on the various amendments which have been tabled, so if you will allow me, i will take two more minutes. as regards the vlasto report on port state control, i thank the rapporteur and parliament for supporting the proposal which will lead to the implementation of an ambitious new inspection regime for europe. i would like to make two comments on two essential aspects: the first concerns the mechanisms under which the conditions for inspections of ships cannot be determined. on the one hand, there is the flexibility, which is justified for operational reasons and is already provided for in the current directive, so we believe that it should be maintained. for this reason, i cannot give my favourable opinion on amendments nos 19 and 23. the most important aspect from a political point of view is the ban on the use of the products referred to in amendments nos 31 and 32. if the commission can accept the council's view that a less stringent regime should be introduced for ships on the grey list, i am glad that parliament supports the commission on the issue of permanent ban. as regards the de grandes pascual report on classification societies, i am pleased that parliament has accepted the division of the act into directives and regulations, as requested by the council, which seems to me to be a fair and rigorous approach from a legal point of view. as regards the amendments, i would say that amendments nos 27 and 28 introduce changes in the civil liability regime of recognised bodies and we find them to be incoherent. in any event, death due to negligence must continue to be covered by the directive and be covered by minimum liability. as regards amendment no 1, which deletes the third recital which the council added to the draft regulation, we can accept it. this recital seems to us to be superfluous and dangerous; i would not want to see our inspectors having a hard time doing their job because of it. finally, as i have said, i can accept the amendments to incorporate into the draft directive certain elements from the flag state proposal. i am sorry, mr president, that i have been a little long, but there were so many amendments and i thought it was right to let the house know what the commission's view was.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, i would like to make a small suggestion based on my experience, which is not very long but which i have gained in this period. i assure you, do not fear the conciliation: reconciliation is a creative process that allows us to overcome even seemingly intractable problems. i can assure you that we will also agree on the limited overall liability that every shipowner would like to have in the face of the need for every passenger to be treated equally. today it seems impossible, some imaginative effort that we all put together, can surely make it happen. in short, in addition to the optimism of the will that i will certainly, of gramscian memory, instill, i also invite you to follow the suggestion of the anonymous frenchman of '68 that with a little imagination in power, something will be achieved in a definitive way. i must be less happy about some jokes by some colleagues about this resistance to extending passenger protection to inland waters, which i do not understand. i must say, it bothers me to have to honestly play up the fact that a child and his father who died on the seine should be protected differently than if they had died in the open sea. i think it is unbearable that mr rack, mr wortmann-kool and mr blokland really wanted to imagine that the protection of small interests, because it is a very small cost of insurance for events which are very unlikely are very low; i am glad to hear that the commission has also confirmed this position, which would also be an honour for this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 2009 is a year in which we will not only be called upon to vote, but also to give some answers to the specific questions our constituents will ask us. one question will be on the area of freedom, security and justice: why we want to do it, how we want to do it and when we want to do it. we need to build a response through an ambitious legislative political programme which the commission, madam commissioner, has not yet put into place. we expect strong legislative proposals in the area of immigration policy, especially on entry and asylum policies, to secure this fundamental right throughout the european union and to avoid a confrontation, which seems to us completely out of place, between legal and illegal immigration policies. we believe that a political framework, a common regulatory framework is needed. in addition to containment policies, we need integration policies and legal channels for immigration. we expect strong proposals on judicial, criminal and police cooperation which are based on mutual recognition of procedural guarantees; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. finally, we expect more courage in the protection and safeguarding of fundamental rights, which remain the core business of justice policies. the new fundamental rights agency, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, will have to become the main instrument for this action. we expect, madam commissioner, to find signs of this awareness in the programme which the commission will present to us in the coming days.
mr president, mr jouyet, commissioner wallström, ladies and gentlemen, i must respectfully point out that the difference between the speeches of my colleagues and your own introductions is that you have not found the courage to speak in these introductions of the massacres of these days, to condemn forcefully the decline of religious freedom in india. this is a very serious signal, which makes us think that we will be entering the summit in the coming days without having the courage to tackle the central question, which is about the real and genuine friendship that can exist between the european union and india. it is not simply the massacre of christians that is at stake, but the issue of religious freedom, and religious freedom is not a freedom like any other, it is on religious freedom that the quality of a democracy is based. we have learned from the words of the president of india in this house, who told us how he learned, in a christian school, not only a love of knowledge but also the distinction between religion and politics. if this is true, we strongly urge the european union to spend the days of the eu-india summit remembering that religious freedom is the foundation for the development of democracy and to remember thoroughly that we are called to a common task, in which we must remember in friendship that the violation of human rights is the end of a true and constructive relationship between realities that have much to gain and that have everything to gain, building their future together. we must have that courage, madam commissioner, we must have that courage, mr minister, because if we do not take this responsibility ourselves, we will inevitably be complicit in the deterioration of the quality of democracy.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
we shall suspend the voting for 30 seconds to receive the lebanese parliamentary delegation which is present at our sitting, and we naturally welcome it very warmly. the lebanese parliament delegation, led by mr boutros harb, is due to visit the european parliament as part of the interparliamentary meetings. let me stress the importance we attach to this visit, after the difficult years lebanon has experienced, with a civil war lasting 15 years, the subsequent occupation and more recently the war that raged in the summer of 2006 and the paralysis of state institutions, we are particularly pleased to receive the delegation at a time when the lebanese political situation, but also the regional one, has improved considerably, particularly following the doha agreement and the election of the president of the republic. we hope that the new electoral law, which will be voted on in the coming days, will ensure that the legislative elections scheduled for next year take place under the best possible conditions and that they will give a new impetus to the lebanese democracy which the european parliament broadly supports. on behalf of the european parliament, i therefore welcome the members of the delegation and hope that the discussions in which they will take part in the european parliament will be highly fruitful. thank you again, delegation.
the next item is the continuation of the voting.
the next item is the continuation of the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an oral amendment to the beginning of paragraph 25, i would add the following words: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr cohn-bendit has indeed spoken.
in writing. - as radical meps we abstained today on the harbour report, to highlight the missed opportunities to make an immediate and limited impact in favour of the inclusion of the disabled. although some progress has been made, too few mandatory measures will fall to the competence of the authorities and telecommunications operators in favour of the inclusion of disabled people. for example, the proposals, drawn up with the luca coscioni association, for the subtitling of all public service programmes such as news and information programmes have not been taken into account, and service operators will not be required to provide disabled users with regular information on the services available to them and the reduced rates they can enjoy. there are also many questions about ensuring net neutrality and safeguarding the fundamental rights of its users. the increasingly militarized control of the net is on its way and, under the pretext of safeguarding security, the freedoms of users are once again being eroded, whose safeguards and guarantees, in the face of the possibility of systematic filtering of the web, all remain to be verified.
i believe mr de rossa's proposal is to give commissioner mccrevy a subscription to the guardian. the bureau will take care of that.
president of the council. - mr president, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this very exciting debate. we could sit here for hours because the subject is indeed worth a great deal of debate and the reflections you have given are exciting, but unfortunately we are short of time. the lessons i have learned are as follows: firstly, as regards the position on laissez-faire, on the absence of regulation, i believe that, in view of the reservations which are due to my office, i have been quite clear. it seems to me that the debate between 'regulation' and 'no regulation' must be overcome. financial deregulation is now an archaic concept. strong, modern financial regulation is the solution for the future. it must be adapted, we must go beyond what has been done so far. that is the first point, and from that point of view i am very clear. i listened carefully to what mrs koch-mehrin also said and i take up what she said, namely that regulation is not the enemy of the market. we all have our responsibilities. it is up to the public authorities to regulate, to adapt the regulations, because what is at stake is the stability of a system, the protection of small savers, the protection of depositors. i also say to mr wurtz that it is also employment, growth and the impact on the real economy that are at stake in this crisis today, and that is why action must be taken, including for the most modest, and quickly. secondly, europe must act in the context of closer international cooperation. there's no other choice. europe, it has been said, must make its voice heard, otherwise - i was going to say as usual - we shall suffer what we deserve from american regulations. we have already done this with sarbane-oxley, we have seen the effects it had on a number of european companies, we have seen what it has done to accounting standards and market standards. we can start again today. the only advantage is that europe now has the opportunity to make its voice heard on the international stage, as commissioner almunia has said, as the president of the european union - president sarkozy - has done, to take the lead, to be ahead of the game. i really call on europeans to coordinate their efforts to ensure that the union has a strong presence on the international scene and to reflect on the international financial architecture and on the international regulatory bodies. because if no international action is taken, we will not have to complain that we have no other choice but to call on sovereign funds, which we would like to keep. i am not making any judgments, but we must have some consistency in this respect, we must know what we want to do and if europe does not act, we will also be dependent on other funds to stabilise the financial system. third conviction: this has been mentioned by many, including president schulz. it is true that we have to raise the problem of remuneration and the problem of earnings which are linked to cyclical market activities. the problem of the remuneration of market operators must also be seen in the context of this international reflection. i'm not the first to say it, gordon brown said it in his day. it seems to me that this is a logical and thoroughly considered matter. it is clear that this is not just an economic and financial crisis, it is also an ethical crisis, a crisis of responsibility. this is a crisis of economic ethics and it challenges all actors and all policy-makers, regardless of their sensitivity. as has been stressed, finance must remain at the service of the economy and the economy must not be the victim of finance, as has also been emphasized by mr wurtz and other speakers in this field. as i said, we must reflect on the role of the financial institutions and on the road map which has been drawn up by the finance ministers with the support of the commission, on the basis of proposals from the commission. let us talk about concrete progress: i say to pervenche berès, we must go further and we must act quickly in terms of timetable. commissioner almunia said - i take him at his word - that the commission must be able to act very quickly because what is at stake, and i would like to end on that, is the restoration of confidence. the important thing is that, even though europe is less affected, we were sending messages of confidence. messages of confidence mean action, international cooperation, not being afraid to adapt regulations, acting quickly and putting proposals on the table in the run-up to the european council on 15 october, making use of the proposals of your assembly and, as has been said, being attentive to the fact that we are also facing movements which affect not only liquidity - that has been said - but also the solvency of the whole financial system. from that point forward, economic confidence will be the key to rebuilding growth, and that is why we must act with extreme vigour, without dogmatism, and we must use the full range of instruments at our disposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i agree with all those who have stressed in this debate that we have to react; that we have to react to a very big transformation in our financial system; that we need to learn from the errors of the past; and that we need to work together – the european institutions – because, without our interinstitutional cooperation, we all know that we cannot succeed. we also need, in reacting, to work together with the other players in this game, and we know that we are talking about global financial systems. if they were not global, we would not be affected in the way we are, so we cannot forget that our leadership, our initiatives and our decisions should be followed by a high degree of consensus around our positions with the other partners and the other players. if not – let us be honest – we will pay the price of being clear but naive, and we will not be competitive in the financial industry, and we need to continue to be competitive – not only efficient, not only rigorous, not only able to learn the lessons of the past, but also to be competitive. as i have already said in my introductory remarks – and i agree with the chair’s remarks – what i mean by reaction in the short term is to fully implement the ecofin road map as soon as possible – and we are on track, mrs berès. the assessment carried out a few weeks ago in nice shows that we are on track in adopting the decisions of this ecofin. next week we will need to put forward proposals on the capital requirements directive and, in a few weeks, to the credit rating agencies directive. in this parliament and in the council, the adoption as soon as possible of the solvency ii directive is also very important. but beyond the eu’s borders the financial stability forum needs to continue working very intensively; it is a very important institution at this moment – the level 3 committees of the lamfalussy framework. we are deeply concerned – parliament, the commission and, i hope, also the council – about the lack of efficiency of some reactions at this level, and these are key institutions that should work much more efficiently than when these institutions were created a few years ago – the basel committee, the international accounting standards board – that is a key issue, as mr jouyet said. so, we are not alone. we have to react quickly, in an efficient way, taking into account the big problems that we are facing and, at the same time, ensuring that our leadership is followed by others – as we know is the case in many other regulatory areas. from a structural point of view, unfortunately, we cannot decide on everything today. but it is true – and i fully agree – that the relationship between regulation and markets will change because of this crisis. it is obvious there is a regulatory failure, among things. i think we all agree that we need to establish a more intense relationship at all levels with the us authorities, not only in our task as the commission or the executive branches, but also parliament with congress, which is now a key actor in the solution of the particular problems in the usa. we need to react at the multilateral level. the real origin of all these failures in the financial systems – the excess of liquidity, the excess of risks adopted by the actors, the low risk aversion that we have seen in the past – the cupidité, in the words of mr jouyet – has been created by these global imbalances that the global institutions have not been able to solve so far, and we need to act, as europeans united, to convince the other partners in the global arena that, if we are not able to adjust these global imbalances in an orderly way, they will create new problems in the future, and we need to coordinate ourselves within the eu in a more clear and efficient way. we are living in an economic and monetary union. we have an internal market, we have an action plan for integration of financial services, but we still have a lot of internal barriers and inefficiency. i think all of us should be aware that this will require more european integration and not more national reactions or defensive attitudes from the member states. beyond this, we need to keep in mind what our challenges are for the medium to long term, and we need to preserve, in this very difficult environment, the stability and growth pact, the lisbon strategy, and the energy and climate change strategies, which are extremely important now. we cannot afford to forget that we are facing not only very difficult short-term challenges from the point of view of financial markets, but also big challenges over the medium to long term for the world economy and for our own future. one last word: this was not in the road map but will be on the agenda of the next ecofin, and the commission will fully agree with this issue. we need to think about the systems of remuneration of executives, directors and ceos and all those who can create trends and who can adopt decisions in the markets. i will tell you one thing – and this is also addressed to the council – in 2004 the commission – and in particular my colleague charlie mccreevy – put forward a recommendation asking the member states to adopt decisions in this regard, to avoid wrong incentives. we have been considering what has happened since then, during the last four years. only one out of the 27 member states reacted positively to this recommendation from the commission point of view. so the commission fully agrees now with this consensus to touch upon these important issues as well.
the debate is closed. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the council on energy price control, by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the pse group (o-0082/2008 - b6-0460/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the pse group (o-0083/2008 - b6-0461/2008), the oral question to the council on energy price control, by giles chichester, anne laperrouze, sophia in 't veld, eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the ppe-de, alde and uen groups (o-0089/2008 - b6-0463/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by giles chichester, anne laperrouze, sophia in 't veld, eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the ppe-de, alde and uen groups (o-0090/2008 - b6-0465/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by rebecca harms, claude turmes, on behalf of the green group (o-0091/2008 - b6-0466/2008), the oral question to the council on energy price control, by esko seppänen, ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0093/2008 - b6-0468/2008), the oral question to the commission on energy price control, by seppänen, ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0094/2008 - b6-069/2008),
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a ceiling on energy prices, to say it in a little more than a minute, i dare say it is impossible. let's sum up the situation a little bit: in the meantime, national social measures favouring the most vulnerable groups and small businesses, think for example of fishermen and also of public administrations; i am therefore in favour of targeted social interventions, as mr turmes has said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to stress another aspect which is often brought up, and that is the question of excise duties: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think mr piebalgs has something similar in mind. i think that we need a strategy that rewards those who consume less and penalizes those who consume more. a strategy that therefore rewards energy efficiency. but we also need an anti-speculation control which has not been done so far and a two-way adjustment of retail prices and production costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the trend in energy prices is choking the economy and eroding the purchasing power of households, whose energy bills are rising. in this new context, the link between energy prices and foreign policy is evident and hence the increased political weight of the producing countries. it is clear that europe must pursue a short-term strategy based on accelerating the use of renewable energy sources, promoting and researching new forms of natural and clean energy and building new pipelines, and therefore also increasing oil and gas stocks. all this cannot be enough, we must strike out on new paths. i would like to emphasize the two proposals made by president berlusconi in recent weeks: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much in favour of the proposal. the commission, commissioner, can it give its views on these two proposals? and in giving us your strategies for marginalizing a different future in terms of supply, can you tell us whether you are aware of any financial speculation and what the commission intends to do about it?
member of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank the honourable member of parliament for his congratulations, but i would like to pass his congratulations on to parliament, because parliament, in a very difficult situation with five directives on the table on very complicated matters, has done a wonderful job. i might not agree 100% on everything parliament has voted, but what parliament has done today is put the single market for telecoms on the agenda. now the council has to look at what parliament has proposed and try to find a common way in order to make this telecom package become a reality for industry and consumers. with regard to the question on roaming, is there not a risk that, because we bring down prices on roaming, the operators try to raise prices in another way? we already heard last year, when we introduced the voice roaming package, that the operators would be forced to raise the national cost for voice mobiles, but what we saw was just the contrary. so what happened? firstly, citizens, instead of switching off their phones when they are abroad, are now using them. so the volume on voice has gone up tremendously, by 34% in one year only. secondly, because there is competition at national level, national prices have not risen but have gone down by 10-12%. the honourable member recalls the polemics which were going on at a certain time about ‘bill and keep’. it is up to the operators what kind of billing system they want to adopt. our european way of doing it is not to use ‘bill and keep’. that is the american way of doing it. i have just seen that prices in the united states are lower than prices here, and i told the operator very clearly that they should choose their business model. it is not for the commissioner to do that, but they have to be on terms with their customers. the only thing that concerns me is that there is transparency, that prices do not go above price limits which are unacceptable, and that all european consumers can feel at home when they are travelling in europe and when they are communicating in europe. regarding the question on inadvertent roaming: yes, we are aware of this. coming from luxembourg, you can imagine how many complaints i receive from consumers on this question, because some luxembourgers living in a border area have one operator in the living room, another one in the kitchen and a third in the bedroom, so i am fully aware of this question. that is why we have raised this question with the national regulators, and we are monitoring this problem with the european regulators group. we will also continue to do so with the national regulators. we have also increased the transparency initiatives for data and sms on the package which is now on the table in the european parliament. there have already been some positive developments concerning this inadvertent roaming, for instance in ireland, with good work done on both sides of the border. i think that is a positive way to see it, and i think that the operators also should be very conscious of the fact of inadvertent roaming. even if it is only a very small percentage of the population which suffers as a result of this question, it is the responsibility of the operators to try to solve the problem.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commissioner piebalgs should have answered the question, but i will refer the question to him. so, roaming for petroleum products, that would be something! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can imagine that parliament will act very quickly to work out its opinion on this roaming package so that it can be concluded quickly under the french presidency. i also spoke this afternoon with the french president of the council, who will take up the matter and who will be able to have the council analyse the commission's proposals as soon as possible, so that it should be possible to meet the deadline of 1 july 2009, when the new provisions are due to come into force. that is what the citizens, the consumers, expect from parliament and the council.
member of the commission. − i am at the disposal of the honourable mr crowley if he would like to speak with me later on and has a supplementary question. as for the question concerning the break in transmission of the chinese tv channel ntdtv, the commission was very much aware of this problem, and therefore asked eutelsat to clarify the situation. we received a letter from eutelsat which answered that the irreversible loss of one of the v5’s two solar panels has been confirmed both by eutelsat and by the satellite manufacturer, thales space. to safeguard the satellite’s operation, eutelsat switched off the four transponders providing direct-to-home television services while keeping the 20 remaining transponders used for telecommunication services. as eutelsat does not operate any other satellite with coverage of asia, they have provided their customers, including the service provider of ntdtv, with a list of competitor satellites with appropriate coverage and availability capacity. eutelsat also pointed out that their satellites carried channels representing all channels, cultures and political viewpoints. they refrain from indulging in the slightest judgement as to the ideological and political positioning of the channels. eutelsat reaffirmed to the commission that they had not taken any action against ntdtv at the behest of the government of china or anyone else. ntdtv is actually still carried by one of their european satellites. eutelsat also supplied technical information showing that, in order to receive ntdtv, rather large satellite dishes were necessary, which made it unlikely that a significant part of the population of the people’s republic of china could receive it.
member of the commission. − concerning the first question, eutelsat has told us that the breakdown is irreversible and that the transmission of tv services cannot be resumed. so it is a purely technical question. unfortunately, the capacity is only 50%, so the energy which can be taken up is only 50%. it is a technical question which, unfortunately, cannot be solved. now to the more fundamental question from the honourable member as to whether we should, some day, have a ‘europe without borders’ for television. we are not yet there. we have our television without frontiers directive, which is now implemented in an audiovisual services without frontiers directive, where i hope very much that the video-on-demand services can become europe-wide services. the dream, of course, is that one day there will no longer be any borders and that citizens, wherever they are, can receive whatever tv channels they want. we are not yet there because the selling of rights is still done under a national system. one day, europe will arrive at a situation where the selling of rights can also be done at a european level. i favour this. i cannot impose it, but i favour it, and i believe that slowly but surely we will move beyond the national selling of rights to the european selling of rights.
member of the commission. −the european commission's new strategy on multilingualism, entitled 'multilingualism, a benefit for europe and a common commitment', was adopted on 18 september 2008. the main theme of the strategy is linguistic diversity and how best to use and develop it in order to foster intercultural dialogue, boost the competitiveness of european companies and improve skills and employability for european citizens. the strategy therefore focuses on encouraging the use and learning of foreign languages in the member states rather than on the internal language regime of the european institutions. the commitment to developing citizens' ability to communicate in two languages in addition to their mother tongue is reaffirmed, while at the same time the need to provide citizens with a wider range of languages to enable them to learn those foreign languages in which they have a greater interest is highlighted. the commission will draw on existing community programmes, in particular the lifelong learning programme, to support member states in promoting foreign languages through the implementation of this strategy. under council regulation no 1 of 15 april 1958, as amended by article 1 of council regulation no 920/2005 of 13 june 2005, irish acquired the status of an official language and working language of the institutions of the european union with effect from 1 january 2007. however, articles 2 and 3 of the regulation provide for a partial derogation, renewable every five years, concerning the use of the irish language by the institutions of the european union. in practice, this derogation implies that, for the time being, only proposals for regulations under the codecision procedure and certain related documents, as well as direct correspondence with the public, are translated into or from irish. in this respect, in accordance with the provisions mentioned above, the commission was able to carry out all the translations into irish necessary for the legislative process and to ensure their timely transmission. in addition, replies to questions addressed to the commission by citizens or legal persons were provided in irish. in addition to the obligations arising from the amended regulation 1 and within the limits of the resources available, the commission has also started to present some of its high profile webpages in irish, giving priority to content of particular interest to irish-speaking citizens. as regards interpretation, the directorate-general for interpretation is in a position to respond to all requests for interpretation, in and from irish, received from the council, the commission or the committees and will continue to make efforts to ensure that it has sufficient resources to do the same in the future.
member of the commission. − looking at the requirements that were put before the european commission, we can say with satisfaction that they were not only met, but that the european commission went beyond them. on the other hand, to promote and encourage the wider use of the irish language at community level, it is a joint effort of both the community institutions and, above all, the irish authorities and society, i will give you just one example: in this respect, we need, in order to ensure wider use of the irish language, more speakers, more translators, and without adequate training, without allocating significant resources at the national level, that is, at the irish level, it will be difficult to achieve this. this is why i am in close contact with the irish authorities to encourage and stimulate those who wish to do so to come and train and acquire the knowledge necessary to work at the level of the community institutions in the field of languages. i would also like to stress that we are in close contact with the irish authorities not only on institutional matters but also on the various developments in the irish language. of course, we want to help with all our strengths the development of, for example, terminology at the level of the irish language and, as i told you, we have very close links, not only with the authorities but, in general, with all the actors who are involved in the field.
member of the commission. − the european commission internship programme is open to anyone who has completed university studies, who has not yet completed an internship with the european institutions and who has a thorough knowledge of at least one of the european commission's working languages: german, english or french. this is a practical requirement that allows a trainee to participate in the activities of the services and to benefit fully from the traineeship. in addition, practical information and explanations to help applicants are available only in these three languages. moreover, the provisions on the traineeship programme are available on the europa website in all the official languages of the union, in force at the date of adoption of the commission's reference decision. in order to fulfil the task laid down in article 177 of the ec treaty, the number of languages in which the proposals of the european instrument for democracy and human rights may be accepted should be limited to those languages which are understood and used on a regular basis in the third countries concerned. however, documents submitted by non-governmental organisations in support of their proposals for external aid projects, such as their status documents, are now accepted in all official languages of the union through pador, the online registration system for non-governmental organisations. for awareness raising or coordination actions taking place exclusively in the union and where the main target groups are union citizens, applications submitted in the language (s) of the member state (s) concerned will be assessed. the first page of the online anti-discrimination campaign uses an english logo, but it provides access to web pages in almost all the official languages of the union. in line with the action plan for better communication with citizens, in 2006 the commission set up a web translation service within the translation directorate. the commission has thus progressively increased its multilingual communication capacity through the translation of web pages. however, given the rapid evolution of the internet and the need to fulfil first its legal translation obligations arising from the requirements of regulation no 1, the commission must constantly strike the right balance between the option of making relevant and up-to-date information available to union stakeholders and the option of ensuring full multilingualism for all commission websites. with regard to the use of languages on web pages, the general principle is to adapt the language regime of each website to the target audience. the commission therefore ensures that the websites or parts of the websites of interest to all citizens are translated into as many official languages as possible, while more technical topics of interest mainly to specialists are presented in a limited number of languages or only in the language of the text. similarly, information that is generally expected to remain for a longer period will be published in more languages than more temporary content. the commission's obligations under regulation no 1 imply, on the one hand, that regulations and directives, as well as all legislative proposals and communications formally approved by the commission and sent to the institutions, are translated into all the official languages and, on the other hand, that replies to letters from citizens are drafted in the language of their choice. in addition to these obligations, and in accordance with the principle of multilingualism and multiculturalism, the commission is committed to making every effort to ensure equal treatment of citizens, cultures and languages.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i think that the distinction you have drawn and proposed between those documents of a technical nature and documents - if i have understood correctly from the interpretation - of a public interest, seems to me to be a particularly dangerous and slippery distinction, because documents of a technical nature can in fact be of great public interest. the problem is simple: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. in particular, i find it absolutely incomprehensible that calls for proposals for projects promoting democracy and human rights should be accessible only in english, french and spanish. the sites must be multilingual, registered in all languages and, to conclude, the internal information bulletin commission en direct, which is also not understood because it must be almost exclusively in english.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on the report we are voting on tomorrow morning, i should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, now senator of the italian republic, adriana poli bortone, from whom i inherited the draft report and an already careful and thorough study of the problem; i would like to thank my colleagues who have worked with me in carrying out the in-depth study and analysis of the phenomenon with enthusiasm and dedication, and the shadow rapporteurs, who have undoubtedly contributed with their commitment to the implementation of the text in the committee on the environment, with political and practically unanimous agreement. ladies and gentlemen, when i was given the task of this project, i asked myself what my objective as rapporteur should be in carrying out a study of this kind, and i found an answer in the strategic nature of the document which indicated the two pillars on which i should base my work: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. in undertaking this journey, i relied on data, statistics, percentages, which are already widely available on the subject. and that's a disturbing number, because if you look at the world health organization, more than a billion people are overweight, and more than 300 million people are obese. obesity in children is growing very rapidly and it is estimated that obesity and overweight-related diseases account for up to 6% of national health expenditure in some member states. in our search for solutions, we have been careful not to demonize certain food categories as the sole cause of obesity. it is not by eliminating these foods from the diet that the problem is solved, but rather by educating the consumer citizen and especially the young, the child, in proper nutrition. fats are essential for proper nutrition, but in the right amounts and at the right times of the day. the food pedagogy on which i insist strongly is not the ability to discern good food from bad, nothing is bad, absolutely nothing and in health conditions, unless dietary related pathologies, must be excluded from the diet. another problem i want to draw your attention to: obesity is a disease. a disease with causes not only physical but often social or psychological, but still a disease which imposes huge costs on our national health systems every year. as such, it must be tackled with concrete, multi-level solutions. in these months of study, however, i have come to realize that too often the public underestimates this aspect, wasting time in very justified alarms and awareness campaigns against anorexia but in an equally unjust consolatory approach to overweight with slogans such as: fat is good, and so on. this is wrong, it's uneducational; we're not talking about aesthetics or looks, we're talking about health. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one. we call on the educators, the health professionals, the food industry, the media, particularly television, to feel the strong sense of responsibility attached to their potential to shape public opinion. the public administration, in particular, and the local administration. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a piece of news that has been circulating for some days: one of the two candidates for the white house has argued that it would be useful, right, necessary to tax obese citizens the same way we tax alcoholics and smokers. we believe that we are facing an absurdity in principle, but we believe it is essential that this serious inconvenience and this serious problem be dealt with in the right way, because only with a method that can lead us to determine certain conditions can a positive result be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. i shall of course repeat many of the points made by my colleagues, but i do not think we should use half-words. obesity affects approximately 25% of european children and is therefore a serious risk to their future health. the causes include poor information, poor dietary habits, lack of physical activity, even lack of sports facilities. social and psychological problems are not to be underestimated either, since overweight children are often the victims of bullying. i therefore find the proposal to increase funding for the school fruit scheme, which provides free fruit and vegetables on the school shelves, interesting. the 2009 mediterranean diet and fruit and vegetable production should be revived, even in the face of the latest who data which show that mediterranean countries are also experiencing a decline in the consumption of this type of food. this initiative will use fruit, which was previously destroyed to maintain prices, to ensure healthier food, especially for our children, and thus a healthier future for european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize something which i consider very important, particularly in view of the statements made by the commissioner, namely that he has focused his attention on a problem which must be tackled seriously, while also seeking to provide opportunities. i think that this is a subject which many of us are interested in, because there have been a number of speeches, all of them specific, they have dealt with the subject, they have tried to point out and urge the commission, but above all the report, to achieve an objective which is to establish a principle which we certainly have a great criticism, which is that of obesity. obesity, in the context of the health problem, which is a problem that is becoming extremely complicated because it has to be solved, because it has to be helped, because it has to be tried to establish a relationship that has to lead us to achieve our goals. so i think, commissioner, that it is also essential to think that the commission has emphasized the role of the world health organization, but it is the world health organization that is asking for the trend of increasing childhood obesity to be reversed by 2015. but in 2010 we will have an important date, which is to actually establish what we have achieved with regard to this strategy. so, i think, in thanking all of the speakers, the shadow speakers, but all of the suggestions that have been there, in saying that we have to be very careful, observers in trying to establish an important relationship that can allow us to really think about prevention and balance to eat well, not just in the body, but also in the mind and soul; and i believe that we can really achieve this by everyone working together. again, thank you to all those who have spoken in support of our report. thank you, chief.
i thank you very much, mr muscat, and i also wish you well for your fruitful work and for making europe ever stronger. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 september 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the oral question by mr giuseppe gargani on collective management of online copyright (b6-0459/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 september 2008.
the agenda includes the oral question by mrs pervenche berès on the iascf: review of the statute - public accountability and composition of the iasb - proposed change (b6-0463/2008).
in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure, i have received a motion for a resolution. the following paragraph is added: the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 september 2008.
i am sorry that i cannot share the optimism of my colleagues, but i remain convinced that this directive risks being for business, not health. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the point at the heart of europe must be that every citizen must have the right to the best possible care in his own country, otherwise behind the sacred right to care everywhere lies the lack of care in his own home, which cannot be reduced to subsidiarity issues. and the interests of those who want to speculate on health are hidden, perhaps by making a big deal for insurance and with rising costs for citizens and the european health expenditure itself. a directive which i think is wrong because it does not look at the harmonization, the universality of the service that europe must guarantee, and which is not based on the concept that health is a right that must be guaranteed by the public and not entrusted to the ability to take out private insurance. the trade unions are rightly extremely concerned and we are concerned with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe four out of every 100 citizens go abroad for treatment. i believe that health migration is a thermometer of a territorial dysfunction, a lack of services. for italians who seek treatment in other countries, the health service spends about 40 million euros a year, in addition to what is obviously private insurance. let us see what the reasons are: the long waiting times for services, that's for sure! an example of this is the 300 days it takes for a prostate operation in italy or the month or more often required for a ct scan. the second reason, of course, is that services are paid for in italy and not in other countries, such as dental care and plastic surgery. a third reason - and i would like to draw everyone's attention to this - is that people go abroad to take advantage of techniques which are prohibited or partially prohibited in their own country, such as artificial insemination, or which are absolutely illegal, such as the purchase of organs from living people. the example in india is sad, but sad examples of this were perhaps also seen in some countries before they joined the union. in short, the quality and cost-effectiveness of the services provided are attractive to therapeutic trips, but in many cases, in my view, there is a need for greater supervision by the union of these services, in order to guarantee consumers and a level playing field. the social context in which the service is provided, even in the new member states, is often a mixture of public and private sectors, and i would recommend, mrs vassiliou, that in addition to the principles you have mentioned, strict monitoring be carried out of the existing rules requiring the use of raw materials, the ce marking and the documents of conformity, because the safety of medical devices and treatments must be guaranteed. let's not forget that there's always someone.... the president will withdraw the floor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that health services are an important pillar of the european social model. it is therefore very appropriate that we should deal with this subject, with the aim of ensuring a high level of health protection and guaranteeing equal access to health care for everyone, but unfortunately the text under discussion does not seem to be moving in this direction. we must avoid the risk of denying the very purpose for which the directive is to be adopted, namely to guarantee the right of european citizens to use health services within the union in the context of free movement. in reality, the text can be seen as an instrument for ensuring the opening up of the health market at community level, which is of a very different nature and which is in danger of becoming a right to health for the wealthy. the text provides only for reimbursement of expenses which they have paid in advance and which are limited to the cost of health care compared with the cost in the country of origin, leaving out the costs of transport and stay in the host country. there are other critical points which have been discussed, ranging from the need to ensure service standards at community level to the important question of information. for these reasons, i think it is worthwhile to reflect more deeply and to try together to give the european citizens the answers that are still missing in the directive itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps mr guardans should ask his group, since he was one of the drafters of this regulation. anyway, i want to say this: the report we are voting on today, the micco report on the question of concentration and media pluralism, is the first report we are approving under this procedure, which prevents a real debate, which prevents amendments, on the day, by the way, on which a serious, very serious incident has taken place in italy, which is detrimental to freedom of expression, with the announced dismissal of 25 journalists from the only television station which for the time being does not refer to berlusconi. i think that the way we are discussing these problems in this parliament is also indicative of a lack of will to make legislation, a law, a directive on media concentration and pluralism in the european union, which is increasingly urgent. (applause from the centre and the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to go into the substance of mrs frassoni's incorrect positions, but i think i have to make a clarification to the house. in the meantime, there are no television stations in italy owned by president berlusconi, but by other groups. in italy, mr president, there are three state television stations: rai 1, rai 2 and rai 3, there is the mediaset group and then in italy there is la7 ... (protests from the centre and the left)
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress the importance of protecting media pluralism (already mentioned in article 11 of the charter of rights of the european union), which ensures a democratic process by which information is made available to the various european citizens in a transparent manner. it is well known that political pressure too often influences the media, which, on the other hand, especially the public service media, need a considerable and stable market share to make them independent of inadequate funding and political lobbying. i shall therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which intends to entrust three european universities with the task of monitoring this pluralism by means of indicators of reliability and impartiality. and i agree with the need to establish control systems that also guarantee freedom of the press and of the press in every country. the time is right - considering the upcoming 2009 european election campaign - to write together a media freedom charter that will combat the current precarious working conditions of many publicists and journalists. finally, new media channels, widespread in europe and the world, must be funded, but also used responsibly (e.g. the status of authors and weblog publishers must be defined) and greater media literacy must be encouraged throughout europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must certainly welcome the efforts to develop a european school, but we must not forget that the strategic objective is to make europe, in a certain sense, the leader in scientific and social terms, but also as a model of coexistence. in this sense we must develop what are europe's cultural roots, for example what rome has given from a legal point of view or what greece has given from a philosophical point of view or what germany has given in terms of music. but it must also be said that we must take up the subject again today - and in this respect there are clear studies - of the so-called dead languages, such as latin and greek, which the most developed american companies, such as general motors or yale university, require as a basis, precisely for the modus operandi of entrepreneurs or, if we wish, even of heads of households. finally, it must be said that the element of christianity and the christian values of our roots must be fundamental to a genuine european school.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to simply point out the complaints from many quarters about the inadequacies of the current governance model. i think we all have a duty to understand, after this debate, that what is at stake is exactly the model that european schools can represent for the european educational area. and since we want to win the challenge of the european education area and we want good practice to prevail in this respect, it is absurd and contradictory that we maintain a level of governance and a model of governance incapable of meeting the challenges that are put before us. i believe that today's debate is more than enough to give the commission the impetus to realize that we must undertake a radical reform of our schools.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, several very serious and important issues have been raised. first of all i would like to remind you that the european schools system is a completely independent body. it is based not on the treaty of 1958 but on the statute of 1953, it has its own board, its own statute, and all rules are adopted by this board. the commission is only one voice on the board. as for the content of the education, this is fully the responsibility of the board, and all this, including the different proportions between the language sections, and the curriculum, is totally in the hands of the board of governors of the european schools. so the commission has not very much to say. as to financing, this is the second thing i would like to say in reply to one important question. the infrastructure is provided by the host countries. so the schools are built by belgium, germany, france etc. this gives us the full picture of the limits we have in developing the infrastructure. what about the content of education? the honourable member mentioned in her introductory remarks that the quality of the education is high – and it is high. this is one of the main priorities of the european commission, to give every possible support so that this quality will be high. this will really be a benchmark for european educational systems, that european schools give pupils an education which is highly appreciated everywhere. so i do not have any information that pupils with a european school education have any specific difficulties in getting to university after school if they so wish. concerning teachers, they count as part of the infrastructure, so teachers are also provided by member states. english teachers, for example, are provided by the united kingdom; in other words, the burden for bigger languages is correspondingly much higher. we, the commission – or the european budget – pay the operational costs for this. this gives us a combination that results in a rather cumbersome system, and one objective is therefore to reform the system and to bring more clarity to responsibility and financing. you can also see the problems with belgium, where, it has been said, one of the four schools is still a temporary school. the construction of the fourth school has been postponed and postponed, and we are in intensive discussions with the belgian government about this. on the openness of european schools, in our view the key issue is the european baccalaureate, and the certification of schools which want to award the european baccalaureate. we promote this idea, which has basically been adopted by the board of governors, so the basic rules exist. now the question is how to put this into practice in the member states. again, the leading role lies with the member states. so this will to some extent settle the problem of different pupils. today, as i said, i am meeting parliament and i hear your observations that category iii is something which must be excluded, but i also regularly meet our staff – it is the same size, comprising hundreds of people – and they of course have a clear demand, namely that education for their children must be guaranteed. so there is a requirement – and this is emphasised very strongly in the treaty, in the staff regulations, in the regulation – to provide places in the schools and then, of course, the question arises who will distribute these other places which are to remain free and definitely in brussels? this is more and more difficult. this is for me a very complicated question. at the beginning of this commission, we insisted on behalf of our staff that there must be more clarity, and so the central enrolment authority has been established by the board of governors to settle these questions. so this is the overall picture, and i must just repeat that the commission’s attitude is that we must bring clarity to the financial issues and clearly share the burden, have clear responsibilities, clear obligations, and then we can also find better solutions to the infrastructure questions, but we cannot have any kind of reduction in the quality of education. about some specific questions, one honourable member raised the question about disabled students. you said that there are many more of them but i do not know that anybody has been rejected when parents have asked for special treatment: it has always been provided. so, if you have facts that there are some hidden pupils with disabilities, please provide these facts and we will deal with them. now, about parliamentary assistants, you know that at present parliamentary assistants are not covered by the staff regulations, they are a kind of special staff members in parliament, but you know also that negotiations are ongoing to settle this and to have more precise rules, and then we can also consider what to do about access to the european schools for the children of parliamentary assistants. so these are more or less the questions which were raised, and of course all these questions – religious education, languages – are clearly in the hands of the board of governors, and the commission is just one voice on that board. the board of governors is dealing with these issues very seriously. they have held long discussions about this, and i can assure you that the secretariat-general of the european schools is very attentive to all needs of the different languages and different religious aspects. so this is their responsibility. just one thing more: if parliament can draw member states’ attention, and especially if all members of the european parliament who have their own connections in their home countries can encourage the member states’ ministers of education, to promote this idea of the european baccalaureate because this is their choice. we now have rules on how to go ahead with the european baccalaureate. now it is up to the national ministries to find interested schools. i know that there are a lot of interested schools, but the national authorities in many countries have not shown enough enthusiasm about this project, which can be a step forward and which can really then be a positive mark for the european baccalaureate, so we can have european schools not only in brussels but everywhere – in new member states and old member states. this is a symbol of europe. the baccalaureate and european education is one element in our architecture.
in writing. i agree with the various solutions proposed by the reform of the european schools: i am also, thanks to my privileged role as rapporteur responsible for the committee responsible for the development of the community action programme erasmus, a strong supporter of the need for a multilingual and flexible european school model which would still maintain the teaching of the mother tongue (assured by the presence of native-speaking teachers), but which would at the same time be equal for all and without distinction of classes. the european baccalaureate will be the first instrument, followed by the erasmus opportunity, which will ensure real student mobility, first in europe and then throughout the world. the importance of tutoring for the social, cultural and linguistic integration of incoming students is obviously implicit and the achievement of excellent language proficiency should be encouraged, with the support of intensive courses. (as commemorated since 2001 by the european day of languages held regularly every 26 september). i believe that cooperation between existing european schools and regional schools (primary and secondary) remains the sine qua non for the development of the renewed european school system, but i do not hide my concern for the future of italian regional schools which, under the new "gelmini" reform, in some small, territorially disadvantaged communities, may even disappear.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in full agreement with what president sarkozy said in evian: only coordinated action by central banks and governments will contain systemic risk. this does not mean that, despite the interesting debate today, we still have some disturbing doubts as to why the european central bank did not lower interest rates earlier than what was happening on the american market, on the world market and on the financial market of some countries of the european union. we wonder why there has been no clear position on the derivatives problem, when we know that this product has exponentially indebted some important public institutions and public administrations in italy and europe. we wonder why the policy of consolidating banking institutions has continued, creating clay giants on many occasions without taking account of the real system we have within our countries, and why consumer credit has not been controlled, thus creating exponential indebtedness both on the part of individuals and, in turn, on the part of banking institutions. finally, we ask that europe today have the courage to revise the stability pact, which is now a thing of the past century. in the face of new and exponential crises, decisions must be made quickly and with certainty. the council must also make it clear, since we have been talking about small and mediumsized enterprises, that the commission has a duty to bring down the cost of fuel more significantly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has not protected the people from financial speculation. even in the new york times we read the prophetic verse of the poet pound: "with usury no one has a stable home". today the fed and the us treasury want to cure crack by lowering rates. a medicine easy credit that caused the speculative bubbles. in 1933 a group of chicago economists proposed a plan: the government should be given back the exclusive monopoly on the issuance of money, banking institutions should be prohibited from creating fake money, and banks should be required to maintain 100% reserve requirements. so fractional-credit fraud is impossible, no more financial games that ruin the poor, the savers, the real economy! the nobel prize winner maurice allais has long been railing against innovative finance, securitisations, derivatives and hedge funds, which are so popular with a certain financial europe, the gnomes of finance. he rightly calls for - as we have been calling for - a ban on derivatives. we're going to go with the chicago plan, the allais plan. the creation of money for the states only. enough with europe uncertain of its course, rightly warned by the pope. money is not everything, it's nothing!
mr president, we are currently receiving conflicting signals from minsk, and this is already some kind of progress in relation to before, but the recent parliamentary election reinforced the popular western image of belarus as a kind of banana republic. on the other hand, the recent release of political dissidents is a welcome development. if it is an attempt by lukashenko to reach out to the west, let us reward his efforts with our cautious support. but we should be under no illusions about the widespread abuses of human rights and political freedoms in belarus. our focus must be the people and civil society of belarus – a cause that this house has a noble and vital tradition of supporting, even more so after today’s speech by ingrid betancourt. the people of belarus yearn to take their place in the new europe. they need to know that we care and that we will not ignore them.
president of the council. - mr president, the french presidency pays great attention to all our eastern neighbours in the european union: georgia, ukraine - the 9 september summit marks an unprecedented step forward in the relationship between the european union and ukraine - moldova - i was there two days ago to discuss the future of the relationship between the european union and moldova in the form of a new agreement more ambitious than the current partnership and trade agreement - and it is in this context that we are closely examining the evolution of belarus. we regret, as you do, that the regime did not take the opportunity of the elections of 28 september to demonstrate a move towards democratic standards. at the same time, the union welcomed some positive developments, including the release of political prisoners. there is to be a debate between the foreign ministers on monday in luxembourg, in terms close to those used by the speakers in that debate. our message is that the union is ready to move if the authorities in minsk make an effort. we need a gradual approach - that is, sanctions will not be lifted overnight - conditional - the union will respond to positive gestures by the regime - and focused on the welfare of civil society, as mr severin has indicated. i would point out that, of course, children and young students can benefit from visas. that depends on the embassies, that's allowed under the schengen regime. we must put pressure on the authorities in minsk to issue these visas, but the european union is not responsible for this. i would also point out that there are specific advantages for young people, children who are close to the borders in belarus. the union will continue to support the opposition. i have just spoken with mr milinkevich, mr kozulin and mr protasiewicz, and your assembly can take the honour of awarding mr milinkevich the sakharov prize. i think it is a gesture which honours the european parliament. it is essential, as has been said, that when a representative of a member state visits minsk, he has a meeting with the opposition. we have therefore not lost hope of moving the regime towards greater liberalisation, so as not to leave belarus in an exclusive confrontation with russia.
member of the commission. − mr president, on the question of whether we are prepared to receive the opposition on monday on the margins of the gaerc meeting, this is an interesting suggestion. we will look into it and i will pass on the views of the members to benita ferrero-waldner. however, it is for the presidency to extend the invitation. if the meeting with the opposition takes place, the commissioners are of course ready to participate. on the question of eu assistance to belarus, assistance focuses on support to civil society and the needs of the population: the combined enpi resources of eur 20 million for 2007-2010 to address the needs of the population and democratisation in the broad sense, with the funding from the thematic programme for non-state actors and local authorities and the instrument for democracy and human rights to support democratisation and civil society in the more narrow sense. we foresee actions to further the extent of the capacity of ngos, in particular in the human rights field and independent media. the question was asked about chernobyl orphans being banned from travel and from stays in member states. the commission, together with the heads of missions in minsk, has raised the issue of chernobyl orphans with the authorities and we will continue to do so as necessary. in addition the commission will continue to support the alleviation of the chernobyl catastrophe. in conclusion may i say that this vivid debate demonstrates that there is a clear interest in the belarus issue at this crucial time. undoubtedly the time has come for making strategic choices on what should be our approach towards belarus at this complex juncture. i have listened with interest to the views expressed by the members of parliament and i understand that, according to some of you, a limited and proportionate suspension of sanctions could be used as a positive lever to press for democratic progress. we now await the parliament resolution on belarus which is due to be adopted tomorrow, and we will take due account of your opinion in our decision which will be taken shortly.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 october 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the results of the belarusian elections speak for themselves. this was to be expected. the opposition is crushed by a powerful power machine set up by belarusian president lukashenko which has effectively prevented the elections from being held in a proper manner. it seems to me that europe is once again playing the merchant's ear: the voices denouncing fraud, intimidation, violence and abuse have so far gone unheard, despite the fact that the international observers in their substantial totality confirm clear violations, light years away from the required democratic standards. i expect a clearer, more precise word and consequent political and diplomatic action from the european union. otherwise, let us avoid the usual proclamations, the fine resolutions, the declarations of intent! they would only be hypocritical acts, the expression of a europe which has not been able to express an authoritative and decisive position.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the council on the implementation of the judgment of the court of justice in the case 'turko' by marco cappato, michael cashman, anneli jäätteenmäki and costas botopoulos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs (o-0087/2008 b6-0470/2008), and the oral question to the commission on the application of the judgment of the court of justice in the case 'turko' by marco cappato, michael cashman, anneli jäätteenmäki and costas botopoulos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs (o-0088/2008 - b6-0471/2008).
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our colleague from the previous legislature, maurizio turco, now a radical member of the italian parliament, had lodged an application - an application as a citizen can lodge - seeking access to council documents in which the names of the national delegations which had taken certain positions during the debate had been censored, as had access to a legal opinion and the request had been refused by the council. the action before the court of first instance, which had in the meantime urged the council to make the identity of the national delegations accessible in order to prevent the court from ruling on the matter, had proved turco wrong and the council right. however, the appeal to the court of justice has reversed the situation. the court simply said that access to documents, and in particular to those with legislative effects, must be compulsory, because access to documents is democracy and any exception is to be interpreted in an extremely limited way, there being an obvious public interest. public and legal debate on documents can give further legitimacy to the institutions and improve self-confidence. the question we ask today in summary is: how do the commission and the european institutions intend to follow up this judgment? that is to say, it should also be an opportunity for a thorough review of the operational methods of immediate publication of documents. i know very well that this is simply a citizen's appeal, as any citizen could have done, and not a reform followed by an institutional debate. but i say, all the more so, that this is the strength of maurizio turco's initiative, which shows how the individual case can do perhaps much more than what institutional initiatives offer us. we need to maximize the publicity of these documents. we must know that, for example, just today at the european commission press conference it was confirmed that the commission has not yet asked the italian government for information on a matter which maurizio turco himself raised on discrimination in the teaching of religion in our country. why hasn't this been requested? it is a concrete example of the mechanisms by which the functioning of the european institutions becomes inscrutable to the citizen. so let's seize this opportunity for a radical and profound reform of access and disclosure of documents.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council has mentioned the amount of one million documents published. in the case of access to documents, quantity is also quality, but it is not only quality. if we look closely, there's a problem of what kind of documents: the minutes of the meeting or documents accompanying the formulation of decisions. that's what's missing today. let me give you an example. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to take part in the negotiations on the new treaty, and that the council is not forced to take part in the negotiations on the new treaty. i just gave an example with the few seconds of time. i believe that, even in the light of the answers we have received, this occasion should be seen more as an opportunity than as a risk to the functioning of the european institutions.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a violation of the principles of democracy in italy to which i would like to draw the attention of the house: the italian parliament has not elected a judge of the constitutional court for 18 months and the parliamentary committee on information system supervision has not been set up for six months. i don't have time to go into details. we sent the material with the detailed information to all colleagues. mr pannella has been on a hunger and thirst strike since midnight last saturday, demanding, together with the president of the italian republic, that the law be restored. 25 members of the european parliament have given us their confidence and signed a resolution in accordance with article 7 of the treaties. my time is up and i ask you to read it and support it.
madam president, for once an event that allows us to smile. in the present situation, in which the europe of the former countries is once again destroying our european homeland, it is difficult to speak out. well, this is a surprise. yesterday, the newspaper le monde - i thank its new editor, eric fottorino - published a really beautiful editorial under a thumbnail with a drawing of plantu, in which this newly invented non-institutional g4 is drawn in the following way: here are the germans, the macaronis, the treacherous albion and the french who are meeting to destroy europe, each thinking of his own small things and this, in the face of a parliament, a so-called parliament, which has not yet succeeded in making itself understood. thank you, le monde, thank you, plantu. thank you, plantu. thank you, plantu. you're running for president! (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am trying to make up for lost time, because it seems to me that it is a little late. i would like to thank the committees that have expressed their views and the shadow rapporteurs with whom we have worked over the past few months. it is also thanks to their contribution that we have drawn up a text which has allowed us to have a large majority in the committee on employment. we have thus shown that the fight against undeclared work is a problem which affects all countries and which requires europe to take a concrete stance in this fight if the objectives set out in lisbon are to be achieved. the text has adopted points which i consider to be very important on a subject such as underwater work, which is of great importance: the commission has already made a number of proposals. this means that there is a widespread situation of illegality which cannot be tolerated because it in fact causes a serious disturbance of competition between firms and territories and makes work and those who do it less safe in all respects. it is therefore right to draw attention to this, to make people more aware that the absence of a serious fight against undeclared work is likely to generate these problems and, at the same time, to seriously undermine the social security systems in europe in the near future. we have started from these considerations to draw up this proposal which is being submitted to parliament. as i said, there are important points in the report which, if the commission also makes a real effort, can lead to positive results, proposals which we consider useful. in doing so i think i can say that the european parliament has done its part and that it is now up to the other institutional bodies to do their part to achieve the objectives of combating undeclared work.
in writing. health is a commodity that has a cost but no price. investment in health is the most effective and efficient investment for a society of human scale. and this investment is a shared responsibility of the individual who must activate healthy lifestyles by holding their own behaviours accountable, of the healthcare staff who must preserve their sense of professional ethics, of the national and regional governments who must pay particular attention to the sustainability of healthcare systems. particular attention should also be paid to the need for integrated health and social policies to respond to new needs. combating inequalities, addressing the demanding demand for health, the epidemiological changes taking place, and increasingly effective cooperation between the member states and the regions are requirements which the rapporteur, mr peterle, has understood well and for which i thank him for the excellent work he has done.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr marinescu on the extension of the agreement on the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu to romania and bulgaria, which joined the european union on 1 january 2007. i share the rapporteur's view that this extension could bring economic benefits to both contracting parties in terms of employment, opening up export markets and, consequently, increasing trade and economic growth, without prejudice to switzerland's rights to apply the transitional measures already provided for in the previous protocol (eu 10), albeit with the necessary adaptations.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr panzeri on strengthening the fight against undeclared work. i think it is all the more necessary to combat the spread of a phenomenon which prevents fair competition between firms and territories, which creates difficult situations for governments and which has profoundly negative consequences for regular workers. i agree that a serious and concrete fight against this phenomenon is needed, whether through preventive measures, incentives and accountability, or through repressive measures, effective monitoring and appropriate sanctions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my favourable opinion on the report by mrs zimmer on promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, including child poverty, in the european union. it is obvious that much still needs to be done within the european union to make the integration we talk about so much real and effective. the objectives of eradicating poverty, developing labour markets that are conducive to social inclusion, guaranteeing access to quality services for all citizens and an income sufficient to guarantee a decent life, mentioned by my colleague in the report, cannot but be shared and deserve the greatest consideration.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr zaleski on the conclusion of the ec-ukraine agreement on the maintenance of the provisions on trade in services contained in the partnership and cooperation agreement concerning the freedom to provide international maritime transport services on its inland waterways. i agree with my colleague that there is great potential for growth in trade relations between the eu and ukraine, especially in the area of trade in services. i believe that this report is perfectly in line with the european neighbourhood policy, of which ukraine has been a member since 2004, and that the service sector is where this policy can bear its greatest fruit in terms of economic benefits for both sides.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus following the parliamentary elections of 28 september 2008. despite the considerable signs of openness on the part of the belarusian authorities, such as the release of political prisoners and the refusal to recognise the unilaterally declared independence of south ossetia and abkhazia, i believe that the democratic legitimacy of the elections just held is at least questionable. this is the result of an internal policy which is in no way aligned with that of the european union: the death penalty and the application of certain articles of the penal code as a means of repression are proof of this. the belarusian government must therefore make every effort to ensure genuinely democratic elections in accordance with international law in the future.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the suspension of the doha round of negotiations of the world trade organisation. i am fully aware of the difficulties involved in trying to reach a single result in the negotiations. i believe that the difficulties in the doha negotiations highlight the need for reform within the wto, to ensure transparency and effectiveness which have not been achieved so far. i also stress the need to create, within the framework of the doha development agenda, technical assistance aimed at helping the developing countries. finally, i am convinced that in the present context a positive conclusion to the doha treaties can be a stabilizing factor for the whole world economy.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on introducing the symbols of the union in the regulation after they were surprisingly excluded from the new treaty. as a member of the european convention, i have always said that the union needs a soul which, through shared common values, brings it closer to the citizens of europe. the exclusion of symbols from the treaty was yet another act of alienation of the european institutions from the citizens. how can we expect the latter to be recognised in the union if the union is becoming increasingly unrecognizable, even losing the symbols that should represent it, both in the member states and in its international relations? the recognition by all of the symbols of the union is a first step towards that commonality of intentions for the construction of a common european home capable not only of giving political answers to the european citizens but also of restoring to politics the primacy which it deserves in the understanding and management of the 'public good'. i therefore renew my congratulations to the rapporteur in the hope that this initiative of the european parliament will find a response in the other european institutions and in the conviction that it will strengthen the parliamentary institution of which we are a part.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mr carnero gonzález on the insertion in the rules of procedure of the european parliament of a new article on the use by parliament of the symbols of the union. the symbols is known are worth more than any slogan or word: they are indispensable components of any kind of communication, especially those relating to the processes of identification in a social group or organisation. flags, effigies, anthems are essential if an organisation is to be recognised as such by public opinion. i therefore welcome the initiative of my colleague, which is aimed at facilitating the participation and communication of citizens in the european project, thereby contributing to its legitimacy.
in writing. − the problems of water scarcity and drought, which are directly related, affect many regions of southern europe in particular, with catastrophic effects on the environment and on indigenous peoples. the region from which i come, sicily, is subject to periods of water stress and drought every year, with consequent heavy damage to agriculture. this is an alarming problem, which could be partially solved if action were taken vigorously in at least two areas. firstly, in the infrastructure sector: in the island, for example, a lot of water - it is estimated that up to 30% - is lost due to poor maintenance of the aqueducts. secondly, in the field of prevention: i fully agree with the rapporteur when he says that training and education through information campaigns, starting in schools, are of fundamental importance in facilitating a change in behaviour and in bringing about a culture of saving and efficient water use.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the seeber report, which tackles the serious problem of water scarcity and drought in the european union. water is a limited resource. the protection of ecosystems, water resources, drinking and bathing waters are the foundations on which the protection of the environmental system is based. that is why joint action at european level will ensure the best management of this precious resource. i also welcome the work done by my colleague, who has highlighted the main issues that the union should be dealing with: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on arctic governance in a globalised world. i am convinced that we must recognize the potential of the arctic region in the global context. this is why a specific eu policy for this region is needed, which respects the indigenous peoples and the environment. i support the initiative of my colleague, because the environment is a particularly important issue and requires a political or legal structure across borders, capable of mediating political conflicts over natural resources.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of mr cercas' report on social legislation in road transport. it was necessary for the european parliament to take a position on a matter of such importance. this is the only way to ensure road safety, the safety of drivers and passengers and, last but not least, fair competition within the common european area. i also welcome the initiative of my colleague, because clear rules and control procedures are essential if the work of the operators in this sector is to be properly organized.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution containing recommendations to the commission on the follow-up to the lamfalussy procedure concerning the future structure of supervision. it is absolutely essential to introduce new measures to regulate financial services in the european union in the light of the serious crisis affecting the markets. economic stability is one of the union's main objectives; i therefore fully support the initiative, which aims to ensure a peaceful and stable future for our citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr peterle's report on the eu's commitment to and approach to health. this is of fundamental importance in the light of the new health threats facing the european union. there is therefore a need for a common approach to adequately protect european citizens from such risks. i also welcome the initiative of the honourable member who, with his report, has made it clear to everyone that health is not simply a state of being free from illness or infirmity.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall first try to answer mrs gebhardt's report and then i shall answer the oral question which you very appropriately linked to the report. i welcome president deprez, who is also present. i would like to thank you very much, mrs gebhardt, for your excellent report and for the excellent cooperation you have had with the commission on this sensitive and sensitive subject. the rome iii proposal is very important to us and not just to the commission - i know it is of great interest to the european parliament - and i believe it is important in supporting the free movement of people within the european union. i would remind you, madam president, of some of the data available: we currently have 2 200 000 marriages every year in the european union, of which 350 000 are international marriages! that's already a lot, 350,000 international marriages. obviously, this phenomenon will increase. the proposal affects about 170 000 divorces each year, or about 19% of the total of some 875 000 divorces annually in the european union. 20% is a significant figure! that is why the commission shares your view, madam president, on the importance of the rome iii proposal. this proposal brings more predictability, legal certainty for the couples concerned. you mentioned it - in the absence of devices - we either have forum shopping, or it is the stronger partner of the couple who wins. the commission therefore broadly endorses the european parliament's report on the original rome iii proposal, subject to certain reservations. the commission supports parliament's amendments to ensure that the choice of spouse is an informed one. the commission agrees with parliament that the formal conditions for the conclusion of marriage contracts should be made more stringent and that the weaker spouses should be protected. but we must also take account of the differences between the legal systems of the member states in this area. it is not a question of harmonizing, as you have just pointed out. in the same vein, the commission welcomes parliament's proposals to improve public information on national and european laws on marriage and divorce contracts. there is one point on which we differ: the commission does not think it necessary to include a new jurisdictional criterion based on the place of marriage. the link between the place of the marriage ceremony and the situation of the couple at the time of separation may be very tenuous. however, the commission agrees with parliament's amendment on the possibility for spouses to bring the matter before the court of last resort when the divorce cannot be pronounced by the court of their habitual residence. but we're looking at it as an exceptional hypothesis. the commission also prefers to leave the interpretation of the concept of 'habitual residence of the spouses' to the court of justice because this concept already appears in a number of legal instruments and, at the moment, no formal definition has been given. national judges seem to apply it without too much difficulty. we believe that, in order to respect the diversity of the legal systems of the member states, we can trust the court of justice. nor do we see the need to limit rome iii to the law of the member states alone. this is an important question. the member states want to be able to continue to apply the divorce laws of third countries which share our democratic values: for example, if a german or a french woman marries a swiss man, it is easy to think that the same rules we give ourselves should also be able to apply to this union, to this disunion. but be careful! the commission agrees with parliament that an anti-discrimination clause must be included in rome iii, of course, allowing any european court to rule out the application of foreign laws which are incompatible with the principle of equality between spouses. with this anti-discrimination clause, we can probably apply it to couples such as switzerland/member state or norway/member state. i now turn to the question of how to make rome iii a success and i thank mrs gebhardt and mr deprez again for the oral question on the progress of the rome iii dossier. of course, i share your regret that the negotiations on the rome iii dossier have been blocked at council level. we had a debate last july between the ministers of justice on the possibility of using enhanced cooperation in rome iii and, at the end of july, nine member states, more than a third of the member states involved in the adoption of rome iii, submitted a request to the commission for enhanced cooperation. so obviously the commission must look into this request for enhanced cooperation. but you will see that in this too, in order to succeed, it is necessary to be attentive to the whole context. i will now answer the three questions you have put to the commission. first of all, i should like to say that a possible withdrawal of the commission's original rome iii proposal is not on the agenda. if the commission agrees to make a proposal to the council on enhanced cooperation in the field of rome iii, when the decision is taken, it may nevertheless, in the interests of legal clarity, withdraw its original proposal in order to amend it. but that is if we have the possibility of engaging in closer cooperation. in any case, withdrawal is not on the agenda. i take this opportunity to recall briefly the procedure which organizes the mechanism of enhanced cooperation. the commission has to be asked first by at least eight member states, which it is. where this is the case, the application fulfils the other criteria laid down in the treaty on european union compliance with the rules of the internal market , the commission may submit a proposal to the council. if it does not, it shall state the reasons for its failure to submit a proposal. enhanced cooperation must then be authorised by the council, after consulting or assenting to parliament, as appropriate. the request for enhanced cooperation, of course, raises some questions both from a legal and a political point of view. it is necessary to confront the need to continue our joint action on family law as closely as possible to the citizens, to confront this need with the risk of over-fragmenting the european area of justice which could result from a whole series of enhanced cooperation. before i make my statement, i would of course like to hear from the members of parliament and i would very much like the member states to make their position very clear. in any case, i would like to assure the european parliament that i intend, and not only intend, but intend to take judicial cooperation in civil matters in europe forward. family law should not be the poor relation of civil justice. it would be paradoxical, given that these are issues which touch the daily lives of citizens most closely. fortunately, progress has been made in the circulation of divorce decisions, parental responsibility and child visitation rights. i would also like to say that we have texts, but that the commissioner, with your help, must now ensure that these rules are properly applied. i am thinking in particular of the right of access to children and childcare, where not everything is satisfactory in europe at the moment. in short, we could imagine a legislative proposal on the law applicable to this matter... and i would add something: at the same time we are preparing a law applicable to matrimonial regimes, which could be adopted in early 2010. that is the state of the matter, madam president. i cannot, of course, prejudge the consultation which we are about to begin with the member states. what i can say is that the commission clearly wants to move forward, but we must once again ensure that we can get the majority of member states on board. that is a bit my view but i hope, like you and parliament, that things will go forward.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation in question has been the subject of a thorough examination by the committee on legal affairs, of which i have the honour of being the rapporteur. the suggestions in the opinion, which was unanimously adopted at that meeting, were, however, only partially accepted by the committee on civil liberties. i must say, however, that we have tried together to rationalize the council's initial proposal as much as possible, by introducing elements of legal certainty. the compromise amendments adopted by the two committees, thanks also to the work of mrs gebhardt, whom i thank, have been appreciated and have made it possible to strengthen the principles to which we referred in order to initiate this regulation. in this connection, the authorities of a state which does not provide for divorce and which does not recognise such a marriage will not be obliged to pronounce dissolution. there is one point of disagreement which has remained, however, and which is what mrs gebhardt's speech has already shown. it allows for the choice of law, which is a very new thing in the legal world, because normally you can't choose the law, you can choose the judge, but not the law, and so it's an extremely new thing. that being so, to which law are we referring? the law of one of the 27 states of the european union or the law of any country in the world? true, there is a limit. the limit is that already established of public order and the inapplicability in a state of a law providing for a marriage not considered to exist in the state. i believe that if we really want legal certainty, my objection is technical, if we really want to shop around on the choice of the applicable law, if we really want to respect the weakest code - because let us not forget that consent is required to choose the law and that consent is also subject to strong pressure - if we really want to rebuild a european legal area then, in my view, it is good for all these amendments, it is good that the choice of law is limited to the laws of the 27 states of the european union alone. we have tabled several amendments to that effect, but in essence it is only one, and since it is a technical amendment which does not change our overall view of the proposal, we think we will appeal to the rationality of all members to have this amendment approved.
i am not convinced by what commissioner barrot has told us that there is any real utility in using these pnr data. we still have no clear evidence that this data can make a real contribution to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in fact, this eagerness to identify suspected terrorists has turned everyone into a suspect. i think we should have some clarity about the use of the data that is being collected or how this data is being processed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i believe that this rush to extract information is not helpful in protecting our own security. the overriding concern for security over freedom has often led to the elimination of elements of protection of our rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am happy to be here and again express gratitude for the very strong political support of the educational agenda, namely for the erasmus mundus second programme for the next five years. i think that to reach a first-reading agreement is really a good confirmation of this support. i would especially like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mariella de sarnez, but also the committee on culture and education and other committees, specifically the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development as the partners in enforced cooperation. as the rapporteur said, this is a programme with world-class quality. it promotes intercultural understanding, but also people-to-people contacts and, since the establishment of the programme, we have more than a hundred european joint master programmes. more than 7 000 scholarships to students and academics have been given. and i think, with the increased budget, as was mentioned – particular thanks again to parliament and to the council – we will be able to meet the growing demand and enthusiasm for this programme. the second phase of the programme will provide for the continuation of the existing actions, but also innovation. there are new elements, because it means the extension of the scope of the programme to the doctoral level; it means third-country universities are enabled to participate in the joint programmes; it will provide full study scholarships to european students to follow joint master and doctorate courses. as we said already, the ‘erasmus mundus external windows’ or cooperation windows, come into one house or under one roof. partnerships funded under this action will continue: they will allow the transfer of know-how and exchanges of students and professors at all levels of higher education. of course, they will continue to respect the needs and priorities of countries concerned, in this way contributing to their development. to conclude, really i am pleased that parliament and the council have been able to support the programme structure as we proposed, and also i welcome the valuable contributions on issues like visas or disadvantaged groups or minimal requirements for the new doctoral courses. let me finish by congratulating the parliament for the work done, because it was not easy. we, as the commission, fully share the agreement achieved, which is reflected in the compromise amendments tabled by ms de sarnez, ms pack, ms novak, ms prets and ms trüpel. as soon as the formal legislative procedure is finalised, we will launch our call for proposals, in order to ensure the smooth continuation of existing courses and the selection of new programmes.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs marielle de sarnez, who has done an excellent job of summarizing the situation, even in a context in which the commission and especially the council have not always shown great openness to parliament's requests. the committee on development unanimously approved my report: some of our surveys have been accepted. we are still rather dissatisfied with other points. however, we are taking a step back in a spirit of responsibility, considering it imperative that the whole package be approved at first reading, so that the process can begin on 1 january. it's great that we quadrupled student funding, but, mind you, a significant portion of that comes from development resources: dci and cotonou. we will therefore be vigilant in demanding full compliance with the overall regulatory framework, in particular with regard to the dci. for now, i wish all the best to the many young people in europe and around the world who, in a spirit of friendship, sharing, learning and growing, will be the protagonists of this extraordinary training experience.
in writing. thank you, mr president, as i have already pointed out in my previous speech, the committee on development shares the objectives of the erasmus mundus programme and supports this proposal. my report contained ideas which were taken up by the rapporteur. but i would appeal to the commission: let us not fall back on the mistakes of the past. only a few months ago we had to go to the european court of justice to get the statutory provisions of the cdi respected. the principle we want to be respected is simple and straightforward: the resources allocated to development must be effectively used, in their entirety, for development. we take note of commissioner figel's commitment to this and will be watching closely to ensure that the relevant regulatory framework is fully respected.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission, the french presidency and my colleagues in parliament, and first of all the rapporteurs for opinions, for their commitment to drafting a compromise text at first reading which will enable the safer internet programme to enter into force on schedule, i.e. as from 1 january 2009. the new programme for minors using the internet and other communication technologies, as it is known, will be structured around four main lines of action: reducing illegal or harmful content and countering harmful behaviour online; promoting a safer online environment, including through ad hoc technological tools; information, participation and prevention to raise public awareness of the opportunities and risks associated with the use of online technologies and to create a knowledge base to foster international collaboration, exchange of good practice and information. the data speak for themselves and commissioner reding knows it well: the age of children accessing the internet has dropped significantly. already from the age of 9 or 10, children go online several times a week and by the age of 12 or 15, 75% of european children use the internet for about three hours a day: they communicate through chats, texting, and social networking sites. of course, the aim of the programme is not to criminalize the internet in a catastrophic view of new technologies, quite the opposite. the aim is to provide the right tools to learn more about and navigate the world of new technologies, to fully understand their positive potential and opportunities in terms of information, training and socialisation, and at the same time to learn how to defend themselves against abuse. we cannot ignore the fact that the latest statistics tell us that 30% of young people have had at least one bad encounter online, at least one unpleasant experience in which the child has been confronted with pornographic content, offensive or violent messages of various kinds or sexual proposals or even content that incites violence or self-harm, suicide, anorexia or bulimia. we cannot ignore the exponential growth of child pornography sites. we cannot ignore the data provided by interpol which reveals that every year at least half a million new original child pornography images are uploaded online. the commission has done well to highlight three new emergencies: grooming, i.e. the online grooming of minors through psychological manipulation techniques aimed at real-life contact. the grooming is very insidious because the approach is apparently softer. there are no explicit sexual demands at the beginning. the child is disoriented by affectionate and confidential behaviour: he doesn't understand the danger, he's happy with the exclusive relationship he's establishing, so he doesn't talk about it with anyone, especially not his parents. this is therefore a highly dangerous situation because it is not perceived as such and often ends in face-to-face encounters and actual abuse. another priority is cyberbullying, which is bullying that uses new technologies and amplifies the persecution of the bully victim who may be harassed 24 hours a day through the internet and mobile phones. and there 's another problem . the generation gap in technology. we have a generation of digital natives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is therefore of fundamental importance to close this gap. the programme's objectives are ambitious, perhaps too much in relation to the available budget of 55 million but it is nevertheless a good starting point. parliament has tried as usual to play a stimulating role with cutting-edge proposals, which i do not mention because they are in the report and my time is almost up. i would like to conclude, mr president, by reiterating our commitment, that of parliament and - i am convinced - that of the commission, to never let down our guard on these issues.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for her important assurances, including that the commission and commissioner barrot intend to find a legally binding definition of grooming, a common definition in all the member states. that certainly sounds like a very important goal. i believe that this programme obviously cannot solve all the problems, also because it is only a programme, it has legal limits and of course budgetary limits. but the debate also confirms that the european parliament is willing to be active in the fight against harmful content online. the future objective is also to better coordinate action at european level, by making available best practice, the most successful measures and by sharing information and methods. i believe that international cooperation in this area must be stepped up, because, as other members have already said, it is a field that knows no frontiers. the aim is to move towards real-time data and information sharing. parliament wants to maintain its leading role in this area. there are many proposals, and some of them have been mentioned by my colleagues: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i believe that efforts should also be made to ensure that the financial transactions linked to the exchange of child pornography images can be traced. i share the commissioner's view: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of new technologies, such as the introduction of new technologies in the education sector, the development of information and training campaigns involving not only children but also adults, parents and educators, not with the aim of criminalising new technologies because they are so important, but they are also essential for european children.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank mr andersson for this initiative, with the contribution of all the groups and all the rapporteurs to the final text adopted in committee. i think that the position of the european parliament is very important, because, to be clear, it does not discuss or criticise the court's judgments as such, which are always legitimate, but it tries to react to the problems of interpretation of the 'posting directive' which are partly raised by these judgments. it is wrong to imagine that this reactionary initiative is concealing a distrust of certain fundamental freedoms, such as the freedom to conduct business across frontiers, which we intend to safeguard fully, just as we intend to safeguard the principle of fair and transparent competition. what is not acceptable is competition which may be based on the advantage of dumping. competition can be drugged by the illusion that it can violate certain fundamental principles such as that of free movement of enterprises and, among them, that of non-discrimination which, beyond any interpretative conundrum, is based on a single truth: there must be no difference in treatment between workers, whether posted or mobile, and regardless of their nationality, in relation to the country of employment, and what is lawful, including from the point of view of the right to strike, in relation to an undertaking in the country of employment must be equally lawful in relation to an undertaking operating under a system of posting. we believe that any other model of europe would be rejected and looked upon with suspicion, that free movement also concerns principles and that any derogation in this direction is first and foremost a damage to europe, even before the interpretation of a specific directive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is certainly going in the right direction in placing work above the economy and social rights above the rights of free enterprise. it basically defends what is a general concept of social principles which are in the european tradition. it must be said, however, that this report does not touch on a fundamental problem of our times, namely the very high number of posted or foreign workers who are flooding the national markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would certainly create dumping and a positive effect for big capital but not a positive effect for native workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the andersson report because it focuses on the principles which should govern the balance in the internal market between freedom of movement for services and the undeniable rights of workers. if the problems of implementation are to be tackled at national level, action is needed to counter the negative social and political effects of the free movement of workers. the directive on the posting of workers must therefore be reviewed, the social clauses of the 'furniture' and 'services' directives must be combined and the directive on temporary agency workers must be adopted, to which the same rules apply as to permanent agency workers. finally, i also share the urgency of measures to combat shell companies, which are set up to provide services outside their home country by circumventing the application of the rules on wages and working conditions in the country in which they operate. in conclusion, with a few exceptions, i welcome the report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the president's statements, especially with the work done by the presidency in these difficult months, and i am satisfied with the proposals that have been made. we would like to remind the president of the commission that to assume certain assumptions, which we can also share, means taking responsibility for the actions of certain commissioners, such as the commissioner for competition, who certainly did not help to ensure the safety and serenity of the markets with his statements on the paraffin problem. we also wish the commission had been more prompt in responding to derivatives, a product which has brought many citizens but also many administrations and states of the european union to their knees. what president sarkozy said is in line with the wishes of each of us who want a europe which no longer has a president who is elected every six months, but which responds as a figure to the image of a europe which is actually united, not equal, but united, that is to say, capable of identifying problems together and of finding strategies together to be able to combat them and, above all, to solve them. the crisis is certainly systemic, but to change a systemic crisis we must identify a new system and allow, mr president sarkozy, the re-establishment of world capitalism. perhaps we should say something more. it must be said that market freedom is not exaggerated liberalism and that today a system which wants to be based on capital must be able to combine the social and the liberal. we have failed banks, banks that are going bankrupt. how much more could our european central bank have done if what you yourself, mr president, had said and suggested even before you took office had been implemented, namely better cooperation between policy planning and economic propulsion. we cannot manage the economy if we do not also have a political vision of what we want to achieve. we hope that tomorrow the ecb will also have greater control over the quality of the financial system, but we do not want it to be locked up in a splendid isolation. mr. president, in closing, thank you for passing the immigration and asylum compact. finally, common rules in a field which concerns us all and which must see us particularly united. we hope that on some hot topics criminal and civil sanctions can be harmonized to combat speculators and those who endanger consumer safety and thus the stability of the economy. thank you and good work, mr. president.
madam president, i am of course not opposed to the respect of human rights and the fundamental rights of the union in the choice of law. but there's another problem. the question is whether the law which the spouses may choose - i would point out that the choice of law is an exceptional fact in all legal systems - whether this law must be the law of one of the 27 states of the union or of any country in the world. so i am not against this amendment, but i think that this amendment cannot preclude a vote on the subsequent amendments of the people's party, which stipulate that only one law from one of the 27 countries of the union can be chosen.
madam president, sometimes we have to take glasses to see if there is a member who asks, in terms of the rules, to speak to the president. so, as you know, another group can take amendments that one group has rejected. we are not at ease with what mr casini has said, and we are going to vote on this amendment which the uen group is taking up on its own behalf.
madam president, i must say more clearly why i was opposed to and find it unfair that the amendments tabled by the people's party in the gebhardt report were declared invalid by the vote on something which was on a completely different subject. it is one thing to say that you can choose the laws of all countries in the world, unless they are contrary to human rights, but it is another thing to say that you can choose the laws of the member states of the european union. the situation is different and therefore the expiry of the amendments calling for this second aspect seems unfair to me. i think the limit is right and i hope that in the further discussion of this regulation my argument will be accepted that we should try to build a european legal area, a european harmonization. it is pointless to apply the law of china or any other lost country in the pacific in a matter as delicate as marriage, when the urgency is to bind the 27 countries of the union together.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the angelika niebler report (a6-0367/2008) on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european community, of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with the government of new zealand, the only non-european industrialized country with which the european community has not yet concluded an agreement on science and technology. at present, cooperation between the community and new zealand is based on an informal agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the commission and the government of new zealand, which was signed and entered into force on 17 may 1991. but this agreement does not provide for institutionalised coordination of cooperation activities, nor does it contain specific rules on the treatment and protection of intellectual property rights. i have had the opportunity to speak to some of the country's most senior officials during my recent visit to new zealand, and they have reiterated their interest in strengthening this cooperation through the framework programme on food, agriculture and biotechnology, information and communication technologies, health, the environment and the mobility of researchers. these areas correspond perfectly to those which the commission services consider to be the most interesting and promising from the eu's point of view for future cooperation, allowing the full potential of cooperation in this industrialised country to be exploited.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs niebler on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of new zealand. as the reading of the proposal for a council decision shows, this state is the only non-european industrialized country with which the community has not yet concluded a formal agreement on science and technology. therefore, also in view of the increasing complexity of the phenomenon of technological innovation and the rapidity of scientific progress, i believe it is more appropriate than ever that the community should formalise the existing cooperation agreement in order to strengthen cooperation, especially in areas that are more important than ever such as health, biotechnology and information and communication technologies. i believe that this will enable the community to exploit fully the potential of cooperation with new zealand on the basis of the principles of effective protection of intellectual property and fair distribution of intellectual property rights.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr costa on the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation between the international civil aviation organisation and the european community on safety inspections and controls. i believe that the obligation to be subject to two systems of compliance control which pursue the same objective and cover, to a large extent, the same field of application, constitutes not only an inefficient allocation of resources by the bodies responsible but also, and above all, a burden on the member states in terms of costs and the exploitation of the limited resources at their disposal. i therefore welcome the proposal for cooperation between icao and the european commission in this area.
in writing. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a council regulation on the adjustment of the system of own resources of the community. i share the reasons behind it and i agree with the rapporteur's position that the new commission decision, which aims to update the implementing regulation on own resources in accordance with the council decision of 7 june 2007, would, in its current form, further complicate the procedure by providing for continued derogations and special conditions for certain member states. i therefore believe that the general review of the operation of the own resources system, which needs to be implemented, should see the european parliament actively involved in proposing appropriate measures to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr deprez, chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the council's framework decision on the european search warrant. i share the aim of the report and the position it takes. the facilitation of cross-border evidence-gathering is undoubtedly an important step towards the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, which is the basis of judicial cooperation whose ultimate aim is precisely to make judicial assistance faster and more effective for all member states. i think it is appropriate to stress that in order to ensure a coherent european criminal space and to ensure that judicial cooperation in criminal matters produces the desired effects, the legislative framework should be implemented by all member states and the instruments should simplify assistance between the various national judicial authorities, while not omitting the protection of personal data.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr böge on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, requested by france, to deal with the emergency situation caused by hurricane dean in martinique and guadeloupe in august 2007. i share the rapporteur's opinion and i agree with the opinion of the committee on regional development, which considers that the use of the fund is in full accordance with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mr böge on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the requests made by spain and lithuania in february and may 2008. i think it is appropriate to mobilise the fund, since these countries have had to bear heavy costs in the form of measures to support workers. since the fund is intended to provide additional support to workers who are threatened by the new competitive environment and the business models in today's world trade, i believe that the request to mobilise the fund can be accepted without any doubt.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by anders wijkman on the need for a global alliance against climate change between the eu, the least developed countries (ldcs) and small island developing states (sids), because i believe it is imperative to strengthen the eu's external action on the common challenges of climate change and poverty reduction as a step towards the implementation of the eu action plan on climate change and development (2004), based on a greater awareness that climate change must transform the way development aid is conceived. as a member of the development committee, i am particularly sensitive to this decision which has the potential to complement the international climate change negotiations in poznan 2008 and copenhagen 2009. the distrust between industrialised and developing countries, which has been one of the main obstacles to a post-2012 climate change agreement, must be overcome.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr wijkman's report on the creation of a world alliance against climate change. the climate issue has been on the agenda for some years: a lot has been done, but it's still not enough. the aim is to strengthen the eu's external action on climate change by: therefore, policy dialogue between the eu and the pvs needs to be promoted to facilitate the integration of climate change considerations into poverty reduction plans at local and national level. i support this initiative, but it will have to face several challenges before it can take hold, such as lack of global coordination, lack of funding, etc. i also agree with the rapporteur when he talks about investing in the development of innovative public-private partnership (ppp) models, in which europe believes strongly. they are the future of the eu at national, regional and local level.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr beaupuy on governance and partnership at national and regional level and for regional policy projects. it is clear that the success of any regional development depends not only on the results achieved but also on the way in which these results are achieved, i.e. governance. it is therefore necessary to develop mechanisms to improve governance systems without the different policies becoming an obstacle. i support the rapporteur's position, which is in favour of the partnership institution: the new methods of governance must not replace public institutions, but must cooperate with them. i also welcome the plan to reorganise the governance relationship with community funds, with the different territorial dimensions and, of course, with the european union. project management, borrowed from industry, can be a great tool to make the new governance operational, one of the real engines of the particular development of the european system.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the medina ortega report on the protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the european union must be guided by the criteria of clarity and effectiveness, in accordance with the regulatory framework. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a good example of the need to ensure that the labelling of foodstuffs is not restricted to the labelling of foodstuffs. i also regard with suspicion the self-regulatory and co-regulatory processes which are one of the causes of the current financial market crisis: regulations remain the simplest way of achieving the union's objectives and providing legal certainty for businesses and citizens.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg on monitoring the application of community law. data are objective elements, which can be interpreted but cannot be discussed: the considerable increase in cases of infringement, failure to comply with court judgments and failure to transpose directives within the time limits laid down underline the need for greater control by the commission over individual member states. i am also convinced that cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments should be increased, in order to promote and strengthen the application of community law at national, regional and local level. i also welcome the inclusion in the text of the question of the management of the structural funds: member states should be reminded that, in order to benefit from the funds under the 2007-2013 financial framework, they must bring their legislation into line with european legislation, especially as regards environmental protection, in order to promote economic and social development at regional level in an appropriate way.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the report by mr papastamkos on the strategy for the future implementation of the institutional aspects of regulatory agencies. i agree with the commission's proposal to set up an interinstitutional working party to define the functions of the regulatory agencies and the respective responsibilities of each body of the european union in relation to the agencies mentioned above. but this proposal must be a starting point and not an end point, because the aims are quite different from the creation of an interinstitutional group. the approach, as common as possible, proposed in relation to the structure and functioning of the agencies in question, aims to reduce red tape in order to enable those bodies to carry out their regulatory role correctly and effectively, thus making it possible to monitor them, and to satisfy, even partially, the need for control (audit) and accountability that such an important role requires.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for the motion for a resolution on the indictment and trial of joseph kony before the international criminal court. it is absolutely unacceptable that for more than 3 years, there have been unsuccessful attempts to arrest an international criminal like kony, who is the author and mastermind of crimes such as murder, genocide, rape, looting, incitement to rape, etc.: all this is not possible because of the continued reluctance of the ugandan government to cooperate in the capture of this criminal, for whom the icc has issued an international arrest warrant. i would stress that uganda is a signatory to the rome statute, which commits each member to ending impunity for the most serious crimes of concern to the international community and to helping to prevent such crimes. i also express my concern about the total lack of a clear commitment to prevent the diversion of international aid (especially from the government of sudan) to the lra, the army led by kony, which can easily finance itself in this way.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the de sarnez report on the erasmus mundus programme (2009-2013). young people are our future. the erasmus mundus programme pursues a philosophy of excellence and promotes intercultural integration through cooperation with third countries, so that the new generations can work for a better world. in concrete terms, the new erasmus mundus programme focuses on the possibility of attending master's and doctoral courses, the creation of partnerships with educational institutions in third countries and the pursuit of specific communication and information activities. i welcome this initiative and would also like to stress the proposal by mrs de sarnez, who wants the learning of at least two foreign languages to be made a priority: languages are the first vehicle for cultural integration.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the ryan report on community statistics on trade in goods between member states. community legislation is designed to reduce unnecessary and excessive bureaucracy and, consequently, the scope of statistics relating to the trading of goods between member states cannot be left untouched. eurostat has set up a working group to assess how to simplify and modernise intra-community declarations on such trade; a single system for developing and cataloguing the trade flows of goods within the common market is also under consideration. i agree with this initiative, but i hope, together with my colleague mr ryan, that the commission will improve this proposal by specifying adequately what measures need to be taken to introduce this single-flow mechanism. pilot projects can be used to this end, so that the value and feasibility of this initiative can be fully assessed.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs gebhardt on the law applicable to marriage. the aim of establishing a clear and comprehensive legal framework, including laws on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters, as well as rules on the applicable law, is commendable. the current situation is such that, because of the conflicts between national and community rules, any 'international' divorce can generate a wide range of legal problems. the risk of a "court-run" is also noted, whereby the spouse who wants to bring the matter before the competent authority first is rewarded by the law that best protects his interests. this is absolutely unacceptable, and i therefore welcome this report, which is likely to place considerable responsibility on the spouses, particularly as regards informed choice, choice of court and, finally, choice of applicable law.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the report by mr guerreiro on the management of the fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions. i agree with the commission's position, which has always been in favour of european integration, whatever the field of reference. but in this case, any time constraints must be removed so that these regions have the time to renew and modernise themselves properly, so as to be able to compete effectively in the internal market. it is clear that the continuity of support for this renewal is considered by the undersigned as a sine qua non condition, without which working conditions, safety and conservation of fish could not be adequately ensured. i therefore welcome this initiative, which aims to restructure the fleets of the outermost regions (ors) to meet the new european fisheries challenges.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must acknowledge that the council has managed relations with russia in a more balanced way than the european parliament did on the georgian issue. in fact, all the accusations in that resolution were directed only at russia and even justified the attack carried out by georgia on 7 and 8 august. but if we are really concerned about peace, we must say clearly no to the possible accession of georgia and ukraine to nato. we know that this would only serve to destabilize the whole region and create a strong risk of further wars. we must resume negotiations with russia not only for economic reasons, but also because, as long as we are discussing, we are not shooting, and that is always the best thing. at the same time, we must be firm on human rights, freedom of information and political freedoms, which are certainly not at home in russia. the best way to defend rights is not to be subjected to energy blackmail; but to change our situation of dependence on russia, they need not only to diversify their energy supplies but also to invest in clean alternative energy. one last point. i have heard from both the commission and the council that there is great confidence in russia's accession to the world trade organisation. i would remind you that you said the same thing when china came in and we saw the dramatic results for the european economy and for european workers. then perhaps there are other solutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to clear the air of the idea that russia has attacked georgia. i think we should follow the lead of the russians who at the time called for a tribunal to determine who was really responsible for starting the war. that said, it seems to me crucial at this time when creative finance has collapsed, to think about what the real economy is that awaits us in the future, which is made of raw materials, land, labor and actually at this moment for europe is made of russia. i also want to say that this is not just an economic fact: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. so it is in europe's interest to be with russia and it is in russia's interest to be with europe.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, council, there is a negotiation under way on the new cooperation agreement with vietnam and i think it is important for this parliament to be informed about the subject of these negotiations, particularly in terms of respect for human rights and democracy. we do not claim that through cooperation agreements we can, with a snap of our fingers, miraculously achieve respect for democracy and human rights in vietnam or elsewhere. but what our european legality requires is that we do not accept serious and systematic violations of human rights and democracy. we know that we do not have the great tools to enforce this respect; but we know that the opportunity for renegotiating cooperation agreements can be a good opportunity to at least achieve some successes in the most serious and systematic violations. i hope that this parliament, with a resolution which will be voted on tomorrow, will be able to suggest to the commission and the council some particularly serious points, which the hearing of the parliament's subcommittee on human rights, with personalities such as koksor, vo van ai, comrades of the radical party of non-violence, among others, has also brought to light. first, the situation of the montagnards, the montagnard minority, christians in the central hills of vietnam: the fact is that hundreds of people are still being arrested and there is still no free access to the central hills of vietnam for international observers and in particular for the united nations. now that vietnam is on the un security council, this must not happen again: the hundreds of political prisoners at this point must be released. there is a huge religious freedom issue that vietnam must address before a new agreement is signed, particularly the non-recognition of the unified buddhist church. thich quang do, the leader of that church, continues to be arrested and catholic lands continue to be confiscated. it is time for vietnam to repeal those laws that criminalize dissent and religious activities. the question, therefore, commissioner, is very specific. can we get these problems, at least these serious human rights violations, resolved before a new cooperation agreement is concluded?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say to mr pafilis that the war in vietnam today is the war waged by the vietnamese regime against its own people, against the vietnamese people, against the khmer krom people, against the montagnard people. there will be a human rights clause in the new agreement. that is all right, but there is already a clause in today's agreement and we cannot enforce it. the request i want to make is that before signing a new agreement, concessions be made on the fundamental points of systematic human rights violations: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the central american country, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the reform programme for polish shipyards.
i thank you, mr siwiec, and i welcome the delegation.
i appeal to the members of parliament to show discipline and responsibility, because we are very short on time. there are many topics on the agenda this evening, so i would ask that you respect the timetable.
i apologize to colleagues janowski, wojciechowski and pęk, but we cannot go on. i have been a trade unionist for 30 years and i understand the tragedy and the drama but i must give the floor to commissioner kroes.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by dan jørgensen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the revised proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient vehicles in road transport (com (2007) 0817 final) (a6-0291/2008)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr jørgensen for the document and i believe that it is really a coherent action with the whole energy and environment package we are discussing and precisely to act on public procurement to guide the choice of the institutions, of course, but i would first of all say, upstream of this, to guide the choice of the manufacturers. this is really a coherent framework of specifications that vehicles must meet, both in terms of the parameters relating to the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions and other parameters directly related to pollution and health. it would also be a little worrying to have a monetary valuation, which, as far as carbon dioxide is concerned, is already something of a current issue for the kyoto protocol in the context of emissions trading. for others, it is also a matter of monetizing health, of monetizing health. however, it is clear that the aim is specifically to find comparative elements, not to encourage - indeed, to reduce - emissions, including health effects. so, technical specifications for energy and environmental performance. this is the great opportunity offered by this directive and it is therefore a clear situation which does not, however, limit the choice of the institutions. i am a little surprised at this opposition, which seems to me to be very prejudiced. it is a strong suggestion to the institution but i would say especially to the vehicle manufacturers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 22 october. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the impact of aviation security measures and the use of body scanners on human rights, privacy, data protection and personal dignity, by philip bradbourn and marco cappato, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0107/2008 - b6-0478/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the vice-president, commissioner tajani, for some clarifications and i would like to reply to his question immediately: i am not going to go into the details of the proposal. the answer is yes. the oral question is part of that requirement. we want to examine it with the possibility of having all the information necessary to understand, as you rightly ask, whether this instrument is necessary and above all of security and guaranteeing respect for the privacy of citizens, which is our priority. we appreciate the letter you sent to the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, mr deprez, in which you make a commitment which we here want to consider a formal commitment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data subject is protected. our group has no formal bias against the body scanner: we need additional information and further study. in the meantime, on the health side, we want to understand what an overdose of exposure really does, especially for the so-called frequent flyers, and in this sense we need to be sure of the goodness of the information, because we have come from many years of being obliged to put aside liquids to find out now that it was probably an excessive scruple and that the information and assessments were probably ill-founded. we need an assessment of the principle of proportionality and the full involvement of the european parliament. we do not believe that these measures can be regarded as purely technical measures: these are measures that directly affect human rights, privacy. it is difficult to combine safety, privacy and the protection of the health of passengers, but this is the point of responsibility that this parliament shares and that it is putting to you. we hope that you will give us some information, and that the european data protection supervisor will give us some information, so that we can decide with confidence how useful these body scanners are.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, it seems to me that there is first of all a procedural problem rather than a question of substance, on which it is obviously not difficult to reach agreement. i mean, it's clear in the substance that any safety instrumentation has to go through an examination of the health of the citizens, the privacy of the citizens and the effectiveness of the measure itself, the cost-benefit ratio how much these machines cost because that's also a problem and i think that's going to become the most delicate aspect. in fact, these technologies are usually easily circumvented by well-organized terrorist groups, while they affect citizens - it is true for fingerprints, it is true for the preservation of telephone traffic and eavesdropping - well-organized groups are not afraid of these controls which instead become mass controls of tens of millions of people. i think we can agree that such a mechanism can only be given the green light by the european union after a thorough analysis of all these aspects and only after this analysis has given a positive opinion on all these aspects. as regards the procedure, we have been given a document which, in part a of the annex to document 1258, is entitled 'methods of screening allowed'. so maybe this title is what caused us to sound a little bit of an excessive alarm about the procedure, because "allowed" means "agreed to". we are asking that they be allowed only after a technical assessment and therefore a purely political decision. that is the spirit of tomorrow's resolution. it is up to you, after the political commitment you have made, to find the technical way to proceed in this direction and you will find a loyal partner in parliament.
i would like to thank mr tajani, and i would like to say a few things. the first is that in recent years the airport has become the preferred place for the application of the 'security' obsession. there is a common thread between this proposal and the pnr proposal, the indiscriminate retention of air passenger data, the liquidity regulation - it was introduced after an alleged bombing two years ago, only to find out that now that the regulation is in force, all those who were suspected of terrorism have been acquitted. the institution of the body scanner is the last frontier of this modern torture, as stefano rodotà calls it. the desire to extract information useful to counter-terrorism strategy is increasingly developing an authoritarian embrace of the rule of law. there is a clear violation of privacy, human rights and personal dignity. the new need for total surveillance is reproducing dynamics of social control. the control mechanism of the so-called "panopticon prison" is being established in society, so all citizens have slowly become unsuspecting to be controlled. the establishment of such instruments is a confirmation of foucault's theories and the body scanner looks like a page from "surveillance and punishment". it is no coincidence that the main target of this strategy is the body: foucault says that through the body's political technology one can read the common history of power relations. so, for this reason, and in this context, the authoritarian nature of the body scanner is written, and for these political and philosophical reasons, it is not acceptable to me to subject our bodies to this yet another despotic display of technological power.
pending the necessary clarifications and further details, it is your task, commissioner, to scan this debate.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i think that an important objective has been achieved today, namely to open a debate on body scanners and to see whether it is a matter that should be addressed or not. i think that the debate has shown a clear willingness to discuss this subject. i am aware that parliament wants to have its say, wants to feel that it is a full legislator. i just followed the rules. it is not for me to change the committee procedure. it is not in my power. i can only have a report and make sure that parliament is always involved when there is a debate on an important subject and even say whether a debate is being held on this subject. the workshop we have organized for the representatives of the member states and the members of parliament on the 6th will be a unique occasion - and not the only one, but the first in a series of specific meetings - to evaluate all aspects of the use of body scanners, starting, as far as i am concerned, with the first one concerning the health of citizens, and then moving on to all the other problems concerning the possible non-compulsory use of this instrument, with the consent of parliament. i don't want to impose anything on anyone: i just want to weigh in on some hypotheses. i think it is right to do so with parliament, i repeat, with the commitment i made - and i repeat it at the end of this debate - to consult officially the european data protection supervisor, to listen to the fundamental rights agency and, as far as i am concerned, if, after all the assessments i will present to parliament, it should be decided to initiate the choice of body scanners in a positive way, as far as the european commission is concerned, my commitment, the body scanner - and i can guarantee it and i repeat it - will never be mandatory and such a tailor-made alternative will always have to be guaranteed by airports. if there is a european-style regulation, it should be like this: of course, if the laws are broken, there are obviously consequences. if there is to be legislation, if there is to be a regulation at european level, the regulation, as far as the commission is concerned, may or may not be agreed, but that is the way it is. i'm going to make a commitment to do one thing: if anyone does not believe what i say and it is not feasible, otherwise we do nothing. as for the images, they will not be recorded and will never be stored. so it's just a sort of a transition, given everything that has to be done before. if a decision is made to use images as an optional tool, they will never be recorded or stored. this will be in the text of the european commission's regulations. if anyone breaks the rules, the european commission will take the necessary measures. that goes for any rule, any criminal code. if a rule is broken, then the penalties are imposed by the penal code. even today, there is manual control: if a policeman gropes a citizen, he's violating privacy and violating the rules and therefore not obeying the laws. of course, he's charged and convicted after a fair trial. i am particularly committed to the health issue. i believe that all these guarantees must and can be evaluated by parliament, which i intend to consult in successive stages, starting with the workshop on the 6th, for a meeting where members can ask questions, where members can express their views and express their concerns, even technical ones. i can give political guarantees, but i cannot give technical guarantees. we need the technical experts to respond. after the technical evaluations we shall be able to give an answer to that effect. but the evaluation will also include the members who were invited to the workshop. i therefore believe that i can agree with what mr fava and mr cappato have said in particular on this matter. it is possible to reach a general consensus, a joint assessment of whether or not to use this additional technological tool in the future. if it cannot be used because there are no requirements, it will not even be included among the possible instruments to be used. if there is a positive assessment, after all the steps i have undertaken to take, then the text of the regulation will contain all the guarantees i have undertaken to include, as i said in both the opening statement and the reply to the question. this is a commitment and i am accustomed to keeping commitments, especially to a parliament which has seen me be a part of it for almost 15 years.
mr lichtenberger, i must interrupt an ongoing scanning procedure which is extremely dangerous for the health of the interpreters, whom we thank for their cooperation. i have received the motion for a resolution tabled by six political groups. see the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 23 october.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to express my support for this report, which is perfectly in line with the commitment to better regulation that europe has been strongly reaffirming for several years. the new system for authorizing the marketing of medicinal products will significantly simplify the procedure in the event of minor changes or new scientific discoveries and will result in a significant reduction in the technical and bureaucratic burden on companies. this is in full accordance with the objectives of the lisbon strategy, which was relaunched at the dawn of the new millennium by the european institutions, which identified better regulation as one of the pillars through which to support economic growth and employment in europe. it is undeniable that the competitiveness of our enterprises is being affected by the regulatory and bureaucratic excesses of production which have accumulated over the last decades, and this impact is all the more onerous and unsustainable in the case of small and mediumsized enterprises which in many member states form the backbone of the national production system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the desire to simplify the regulatory framework must be seen as a duty and an obligation. i am glad that the council has also accepted the european parliament's call for small and mediumsized enterprises to be protected by excluding from the scope of the directive the authorizations of medicinal products issued by the member states up to 1998. it has thus saved small and mediumsized enterprises from having to make additional efforts to understand the legislation in force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this directive which will make the rules on variations clearer, simpler, more flexible and truly harmonized. so i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête. i am also pleased that the commissioner has informed us that, also in response to some of parliament's resolutions, including one tabled by myself, mrs grossetête, mr gutiérrez and mr ulmer, there will be a directive to combat counterfeiting and to ensure that manufacturers and importers of active ingredients must obtain a certificate of good manufacturing practice, issued by the european authorities following mandatory inspections at manufacturing sites, also introducing traceability of the product country, plant and manufacturing site to discourage relabelling and repackaging of non-community products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the opportunity to present in a particularly excellent way the work done by mrs grossetête on this proposal for a directive aimed at ensuring community regulation applicable to all types of marketing authorization for medicinal products. a positive and shared directive with the aim of safeguarding public health and reducing administrative burdens. the proposal for a directive is a legal one, simply amending the legal basis governing the rules on changes, such as the introduction of new therapeutic indications or a new method of administration, to medicinal products for human or veterinary use after they have been placed on the market for the first time. harmonisation in this respect is essential and necessary, because without a single community regulatory framework, variations in national authorizations will continue to be subject to national rules which differ from one member state to another, as is the case at present.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a mere factual correction. it is called the unified buddhist church of vietnam and it is said that it was once the largest buddhist organization in the southern and central regions of the country. in fact, he is referring to the fact that free and reliable data no longer exists, but it needs to be corrected in this way: "which is the largest buddhist organization in vietnam".
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of economic and monetary union. member states will now have to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the directive within three years of its publication in the official journal of the eu. the directive also aims to provide a proper framework for the use of temporary agency work in order to make an effective contribution to job creation and the development of flexible forms of work, which i believe is particularly important at this time of crisis.
in writing. −i vote in favour of the commission's proposal for the safer internet programme which (from 1 january and for 5 years, with funding of €55 million) aims to protect minors who use the internet and other communication technologies, such as mobile phones. this commitment will support actions to raise public awareness, combat illegal content and harmful behaviour to promote a safer environment. my compliments to the rapporteur, roberta angelilli, for the care (due to their seriousness) with which topics such as child pornography and online addiction are dealt with and for the various proposals aimed at curbing the potential danger to baby surfers. in fact, with the spread of new technologies and increased computer literacy, children are increasingly exposed to the risks of illegal content and harmful behaviour. in this sense we have an obligation/duty to ensure their safe access to new media.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mrs angelilli on the protection of minors in the use of the internet and other communication technologies. with the massive spread of new technologies, which are becoming more and more accessible, children are increasingly exposed to the risks of illegal content such as harassment, child pornography, bullying, anorexia incitement, etc. it is therefore necessary to take common measures to prevent and combat such abuses. i strongly support the report by my colleague, because it highlights a problem which is too often underestimated by the community institutions. finally, i welcome the proposal to introduce a european database of child pornography images linked in real time to the complaints made on the 'hotlines' available to the police, so that they can have the best tools at their disposal to combat these aberrant phenomena.
in writing. - votes in favour of the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data originating in the european union by air carriers to the australian customs administration. i was recently on a mission to australia and, speaking with representatives of the local government, i understood that this vote would indeed mark an important step forward, strengthening the already existing cooperation between europe and australia in the field of the safety of the transport of people and goods.
in writing. −i support the new eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement, which will include an explicit human rights clause. i would like to stress, however, that certain conditions must be imposed on the vietnamese government, which must commit itself to ensuring cooperation, greater respect for human rights and religious freedom, repealing the provisions of its legislation which criminalize dissent and putting an end to censorship.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for the motion for a resolution on democracy, human rights and the new eu-vietnam partnership agreement. the dialogue between the european union and vietnam needs to result in concrete improvements in the human rights situation, which is too often brutally trampled on. i strongly support this proposal, because vietnam must put an end to media censorship and repeal certain legislative provisions restricting freedom of worship, politics and religion if it is to be an active member of the international community. the asian country must also cooperate with the un on these rights and freedoms. i therefore reiterate my support for this proposal and welcome the call on the commission to set clear benchmarks for the evaluation of development projects being implemented in vietnam to ensure that they respect the human rights and democracy clause.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, slow, inaccessible and unclear justice is justice denied, and we believe that the staff of the commission, the european parliament and the court of justice should be increased and strengthened in the areas of dispute management, monitoring the application of community law and, in general, in the better regulation dossier, because today the procedures are too long and not very transparent. we believe that the commission has not yet understood clearly enough the need to invest in adequate staff in these areas and it seems to us completely inappropriate that the commission continues to maintain complete opacity on the number of people working specifically on infringements and continues to say that everything is fine. as far as the european parliament is concerned, i would like to stress the problem of the legislative quality of our texts and the need to invest more and better in the work of linguistic lawyers. the same applies to the whole question of internal reorganisation as regards the control of the application of european law. finally, we would like the commission to report to us and to quantify, also from an economic point of view, the measures taken to make our institutions greener and more sustainable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 23 october. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda for the joint debate is as follows: - the report by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part (com ((2008) 0182 c6 0255/2008 2008/0073 ((avc))),- and the statements by the council and the commission - ec/bosnia and herzegovina stabilisation and association agreement.
the agenda includes the report by dushana zdravkova, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2007 (2008/2158 (ini)) (a6-0358/2008).
he's absolutely right. this parliament has shown its confidence in your body.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. as a member of the committee on petitions, on the basis of the data in the report and also my own personal experience, i would like to thank you and make an invitation. a thank you, because it's obvious the progress compared to the previous year: we went from 449 to 518 admissible cases, from 12% to 16% of the total, with an increase in the number of investigations carried out. i think that is a good thing. however, and i come to this on invitation, we still need to increase our efforts in terms of communication. we are studying together effective ways, perhaps starting with our schools, of ensuring that citizens are provided with quality information about the figure and role and powers of the european ombudsman. there are interesting projects in this area, which started this year, which should be implemented and supported. in this way the already good numbers of today will certainly continue to improve.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.10 a.m.)
in writing. −mr president, ladies and gentlemen,i give my vote in favour of the draft general budget of the union for 2009, drawn up by mr haug. i am pleased to note the increase in the resources for overall transport expenditure in the preliminary draft budget for the coming financial year and the redefinition of the budget line for activities in support of european transport policy and passenger rights. i am, however, disappointed that the payments under this heading have been reduced, albeit not excessively. finally, i think it is necessary to take note of the opinion expressed by the libe committee, of which i am a member, and to join my colleague dührkop in noting with satisfaction that the budget increase for title 18 'area of freedom, security and justice' for the current year has been maintained for 2009. this reflects the great importance attached to issues relating to security and the protection of freedom, the management of migration flows and the external borders of the union, which are also becoming increasingly critical in the eyes of european citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the draft general budget for 2009, as presented in mr lewandowski's report. i believe that the european union must strictly respect the financial regime in order to send a strong signal in this period of great uncertainty on the markets. i would stress that there is still room for improvement, as there is still a lot of room for improvement in order to achieve greater interinstitutional cooperation. finally, i think it is important to note my opposition to those amendments which envisaged substantial cuts in european funds for the regions of southern italy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if a water tap leaks, we don't close the knob, but we fix the pipe. the concept is the same, but in the right proportions.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mrs pack on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, because i am convinced that this step will help to establish contractual relations between the two parties which will facilitate bosnia and herzegovina's transition to a fully functioning state. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). i would also like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on acts of piracy at sea. the free passage of ships is one of the essential conditions for the development of international trade: the european union cannot accept acts of piracy against community fishing vessels off the coast of somalia, a veritable conquest ground for sea-raiders. i share the call on the somali transitional government to consider, in cooperation with the united nations and the african union, acts of piracy and armed robbery off the somali coast against vessels carrying humanitarian aid as criminal acts which must be countered by arresting those responsible within the framework of international law in force. finally, i welcome the joint action promoted by the council, namely the extension of the right to pursue such pirates by sea or air to the territorial waters of the coastal states, subject to the agreement of the states concerned, and the development of a mechanism for mutual assistance against cases of maritime piracy.
in writing. −i am voting in favour of the european parliament resolution on the impact of aviation security measures and the use of body scanners (i.e. devices that produce scanned images of people as if they were naked, which is equivalent to a virtual physical search) on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection, because i am convinced, as are the rapporteurs, that this control measure, far from being purely technical, has a serious impact on the right to privacy, data protection and respect for personal dignity. i therefore believe that it must be accompanied by strict and adequate safeguards. since the conditions for a decision are not in place, since essential information is still lacking, i reiterate the need to ask the commission, before the expiry of the three-month deadline, to carry out an impact assessment on fundamental rights and to draw up an opinion on body scanners as a matter of urgency by the beginning of november 2008.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you may have heard that there is no longer a waste crisis in campania. well, it's not like that. a few days ago in chiariano, which is one of the places where one of berlusconi's famous dumps was to be placed, 12,000 tons of asbestos and toxic waste were found, whose origin is not known. at the moment, in italy, there is a decree in force which essentially derogates from all european legislation, especially as regards health protection and impact assessment, and we are in a state of state secrecy because these areas have been declared inaccessible to any kind of access as regards information about what is happening there. we have asked the commission to intervene, we think it should do so because having 10,000 tonnes of asbestos and toxic waste out there in the open is a danger to everyone and we hope that commissioner dimas will do so and do so publicly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the president of the eurogroup and the commissioner and the two rapporteurs for this report, because i am convinced that the introduction of the euro has given citizens the opportunity to manage their household budgets better, by enabling them to save money on the purchase of goods and services and more. as has been said, the inflation rate has been contained, averaging around 2%, and some 16 million jobs have been created in the last ten years. the government budget deficit has been contained, and in 2007, as the commissioner pointed out, it was around 0.6% of gdp, compared with 4% in the 1980s and 1990s. the euro has also acquired international prestige and has become a currency of interest to non-eu countries as well. despite the recent financial turmoil that has hit the global financial and banking system very hard, the euro has certainly mitigated the devastating impact of this financial crisis of global scope, but today there is a risk that the global slowdown in demand will continue to weaken exports and to undermine the discount rate advantage of the euro, undermined by the devaluation of the dollar. obviously, important adjustments in the euro's backbone must be made, enabling member states with below average gdps to make up the shortfall. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union and to strengthen the european union's external relations. all this can and must be achieved as we move out of this situation of instability, which we hope will be resolved as soon as possible, and which is still weighing not only on the urgent decisions that national governments must take but also on the disorientation of the savers, who must be given confidence to get investments and consumption moving again and to improve the general framework within which to operate with greater peace of mind. in other words, the responsibility must be collective, but the authorities responsible are called upon to make a decisive effort to judge the reforms to be supported by rigorous governance and authoritative political leadership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner almunia for his presence and president juncker for the work they have done to develop this very important instrument. the euro is a strong reality that has protected us in this crisis. we must therefore move forward so that alongside the monetary policy that has worked there is an economic policy, of the entire eurogroup, but possibly also of the union, precisely because at this moment we need to undertake an emergency programme for the economic difficulties that are foreseen. i believe that a strong commitment is needed, a major programme for the union's energy infrastructure and energy saving. i think we must do this as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 18 november 2008 at 12.00 noon.
the agenda includes the report by mrs edit bauer, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on recommendations to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for women and men (2008/2012 (ini)) (a6-0389/2008).
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes this own-initiative report on the principle of equal pay for men and women and congratulates the rapporteur on the quality of her work. the commission, like parliament, considers the 15% gender pay gap in europe today to be unacceptable. of course, we have to be careful to take into account the fact that this indicator compares the relative differences in gross hourly earnings of women and men within the economy as a whole. it is therefore not just a measure of direct and indirect discrimination, but an indicator of all the contexts and all the disadvantages suffered by women before entering the labour market and throughout their career. the commission's communication of july 2007 states that community legislation has been effective in eliminating direct discrimination i.e. in cases where women are paid less than their male colleagues for the same work. however, they have been less effective in ensuring that the principle of equal pay for work of equal value is respected. the commission concluded that, on the basis of a detailed analysis, it would be possible to consider amendments to community legislation in order to ensure, in particular, that both direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex is excluded from the pay systems. the commission announced that it would assess community legislation in 2008 in terms of its relevance to the issue of pay differentials and that it would propose the necessary amendments. the detailed analysis you mentioned is underway and i cannot predict the results. to ensure its quality, the commission draws on external expert consultation and the extensive and detailed knowledge and expertise of national gender equality bodies. the preliminary results of this study will be discussed at a seminar in the first quarter of 2009 which is expected to be attended by all stakeholders, including member states, legal experts, national gender equality bodies, social partners and civil society. parliament's opinion is decisive in this process. the fact that one of the bodies involved in the drafting of the legislation expressed a clear opinion that the legislation in question needed to be changed urgently is significant. it is also important that parliament's practical recommendations for change are linked to areas identified by the main stakeholders as problematic, such as transparency of remuneration and work evaluation and sanctions. in conclusion, we share the parliament's view that such a large gender pay gap in europe is unacceptable. the commission considers that the time is right to complete the analysis and evaluation and to define the next course of action, which would lead to the most concrete results.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very proud of the work that is being done in this parliament and of the ability to use the powers of legislative proposal that have already been recognised. the report we are about to vote on touches on a fundamental point, a fundamental principle of the european order: the principle of equal pay for men and women workers. it is not only a fundamental principle, it is also the first, at least in the order of time, of the principles of equality. we know that it was already contained in the treaty of rome, we know that it has been applied since the very first judgments of the european court of justice, that it is already regulated by a directive of 1975 and that it was re-regulated when it was recast in 2006, that it is the subject of recurrent analysis and research, as has now been mentioned by the commissioner, and of constant calls for its application. why, then, do we return to such a widespread and profound concern today? there are many reasons: firstly, because we refuse to accept the widespread failure to apply it, as evidenced by all the statistical data, and secondly because we believe that the excessive injustices suffered by women in all the countries of the european union and in all professions, at all levels, in all sectors must be combated, and to do this, the instruments at our disposal are clearly not enough, otherwise we would have been able to reverse this situation in all this time. and why we think that the pay gap should be taken seriously and not just as a casual event in the career of women. so, what do we ask? we are asking the commission for a specific directive on the gender pay gap, but we are not just asking for a directive, we are sending the commission specific recommendations. we have built a bridge to ferry us to real change, and we think that bridge can be very strong if it's supported by as many as eight pillars. firstly, we want to have a definition of pay discrimination, we cannot just look at gross hourly earnings, because that would be direct discrimination and this direct discrimination has actually been overcome. it is no coincidence that all the studies look beyond this, and move towards parttime work, and consider direct and indirect segregation, discrimination and horizontal and vertical segregation. we want comparable, actual, consistent and complete data. all too often we encounter manipulated or covered data, facilitated by personnel classification systems, by a work organization that is geared to the past and marked by stereotypes. we believe that equality bodies can play a twofold decisive role in combating discrimination, in raising awareness and in training for the judicial actors themselves and for the social partners. we are aiming to introduce specific sanctions, but we also know that preventive measures and actions are needed, positive actions are needed and integration is needed, and therefore mainstreaming. i hope that we in the house will accept the text in its entirety, because the more precise and detailed the work we hand over to the commission, the more we will gain in effective timeliness. and this is my wish: we don't just say equal pay, we want to make it happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say to commissioner špidla that, in addition to taking into account the excellent proposals in this report by mrs bauer, if we are to have legislation at european union level against wage discrimination, i believe that discrimination in relation to pensions, even in a more subtle, indirect, but particularly odious form in a country like italy, should be included. and it concerns discrimination on grounds of retirement age, a matter which the european commission has already dealt with, and i think we must take note of it. as early as 2004, the european commission had pointed out to the italian government that a diversified retirement age was unacceptable: 60 for women, 65 for men, the most common age. well, we have as radicals with emma bonino, in every way tried to emphasize to public opinion, the government, the opposition and the parties, how this structure was to be eliminated. it wasn't done. thanks to the european commission, the court of justice finally ruled on 13 november that this discrimination was unlawful and in breach of the community rules on the treaties. the most serious thing is the kind of reasoning that italy has put forward in defence of this discrimination, saying that it was justified with the aim of eliminating the discrimination that exists against women in the socio-cultural context - that is, there is discrimination in the labour market - to remedy this discrimination another one is created, making them retire earlier than men. i think that this particular measure must also be dealt with so that it can be eliminated at european level.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: - the report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers (com (2008) 0306 - c6-0240/2008 - 2008/0103 (cns)) (a6-0402/2008), - the report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (ec) no 320/2006, (ec) no 1234/2007, (ec) no 3/2008 and (ec) no [...]/2008 in order to adapt the common agricultural policy (com (2008) 0306 - c6-0241/2008 - 2008/0104 (a6-0403 (cns)) (com (2008) 0246 - c6-0242/2008), - the report by manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (ec) no 320/2006, (ec) no 1234/2007, (ec) no 3/2008 and (ec) no [...] (ec) no 2008/0308 (com (2008) 02464) (cns), - the proposal for a council regulation on the european agricultural guidans on the common agricultural policy and rural development programme (com (2008) 0306-0246-06-06-06-06-06-06-06-08), - the report by manuel santos, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2008) 0106-0106-06-06-06-06-06-08), the report by manuel santos, on the proposal for a council decision on the proposal for a european parliament and the european council
i believe that today's debate, and the vote that will follow, is an important stage in the community's agricultural policy. i believe that, given what has happened in recent years, especially in the last two years, we need an even stronger cap in europe. we have, however, with this work, which is also long, and with the work carried out by mr capoulas santos, tackled some issues, but within an old framework. the issues that have been at the heart of the past two years are two issues for europe that i would like to stress. we started by checking the health of the cap, the one we did in 2003. some data should make us think, if we are on the right track of the work, even excellent that has been done in this year and a half. we are losing huge jobs in paid employment, about - from eurostat data fixed at 2005, so we don't know in 2007 and 2008 what happened - two million workers, that we lost in the sector of permanent, seasonal and family work. the number of firms we lost from 2003 to 2005 - again according to eurostat - is 611,000. in a period of economic crisis such as this, it happens that the states intervene strongly in the banks and in industry, but in no country is there a discussion about the state of agriculture, because they demand everything from community policy and the cap. in the intervention we are carrying out, i believe we are going against the trend in terms of what the farmers' needs would be and the interventions they would need: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to be voting for the report. now, these were the issues we had to deal with, and there is a very negative assessment of this compared with what we are going to vote on in the house the day after tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent, positive and intelligent work. the subject of the health of the cap is a very important one, because it is intended to improve the competitiveness of european production. i think it is only appropriate to emphasize two points: the increase in milk quotas, with a higher growth for deficit countries and those where the national quota is exceeded, and the extension of the coupled support for tobacco cultivation until 2012. as regards the latter, despite the strong resistance to the possibility of reopening the 2004 agreement, given that a large number of countries consider it morally unacceptable to subsidize this product because of the effects on public health, i would like to recall that the production of raw tobacco in europe does not exceed 4% of world production and that the european union is the world's main importer of raw tobacco from third countries, accounting for over 70% of its needs. i therefore believe that a proper solution must be found to avoid further economic and employment repercussions by causing the tobacco industry to be completely abandoned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our main objective is to ensure that europe has a common agricultural policy beyond 2013. we believe that this is essential, not only to protect the agricultural sector and the socioeconomic fabric in the member states, but also because at the dawn of the third millennium it is more strategically necessary than ever to ensure europe's food security. we would like to stress, madam commissioner, that policies to support individual cmos must continue to be implemented wherever necessary, and in particular we believe that: (a) in the tobacco sector, decoupling of aid should provide for the possibility of maintaining partial coupled aid until 2013, in order to avoid total abandonment of production, since this would put entire supply chains at risk, creating unemployment and various economic and environmental problems in particularly disadvantaged areas. i would remind the commissioner and the president that the european parliament has already voted in favour of this subject by a large majority. (b) in the milk sector, in order to rebalance the market in the short term and to allow for a smooth exit from the long-term quota system, the quotas should be increased by 2% for each marketing year in 2009-2010 and 2014-2015.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too congratulate the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, and mr goepel on the excellent work they have done. we are talking about a cap that was born at the end of the 1990s and was born in 2003, in a globalised world, in which there was overproduction, in which we were complaining about the excess of agricultural contributions and imagined decoupling, modulation, conditionality, an excessive bureaucratisation of the system of payment of contributions, and we have achieved in a few years an imaginable evolution, said minister barnier. a development that is conceivable: we have had a production shortage, we have had a supply shortage, especially of cereals, we have had a deficit in european meat production and we are seeing unimaginable job losses. i therefore believe that the commissioner's sensitivity in changing the 2003 approach must be brought to an end in the coming days, together with the french presidency, by reviewing the position on these issues, on the modulation which seems excessive. raise resources from producers to transfer to the second pillar: we're taking resources from those who invest and produce every day in agriculture, from those who demand respect for the land, food safety, safety at work, animal welfare, high nutritional value and safety of our food, we're taking support from them in an increasingly competitive and globalized world. so we must think again, especially about milk quotas, in countries such as italy, which have been suffering from this production deficit for 20 years now, and which have considerable potential. the link must be maintained - and i join my colleagues who have said this on tobacco - because there are 500 000 families in europe who live off this sector, and if the link were removed they would certainly be on the back burner without having contributed, if that is the issue, to reducing smoking.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to see that the evidence of codecision in agricultural matters, which has been given through the strengthened cooperation between the council, the commission and the european parliament, is very positive. it is a good omen and will also allow me to congratulate mr capoulas santos, of course, on his balanced report on modulation, young farmers, safety at work and the new challenges. we are in a difficult transition, we know about the landing and decoupling, other innovative measures, we must protect farmers in this transition in view of the abandonment of milk quotas, as well as disadvantaged areas such as those of the tobacco sectors and we must take advantage of this transition to start a serious reflection after 2013 to update the goals and the new missions of the cap and to start discussing how to overcome the dichotomy between the first and second pillars.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the great efforts of our rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, to keep the cap closer to european farmers and citizens rather than to market requirements and to reconcile the different concerns in the face of the many challenges at stake. a common approach by the 27 member states is therefore essential, but it is important to maintain the instruments for supporting and managing the markets for the main products. i am thinking, for example, of the dairy sector or tobacco subsidies, the abolition of which would certainly not contribute to the reduction of smoking, but rather to the elimination of an important european production and the social fabric attached to it. however, these instruments must always take account of the extremely varied reality of the european landscape. the milk quota system currently in force, for example, meets criteria which are now obsolete. the 1% increase proposed by the compromise is not sufficient to meet the domestic demand of most member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the situation that has arisen in this period deserves our thanks to both the commissioner and the rapporteur. i thank the rapporteur for his work, because when we talk about agriculture we talk about food and therefore this is a very sensitive issue. i would like to emphasize two essential points: the first concerns the problem of milk quotas. i welcome the agreement that was reached at 1% - we could even take it to 2% - but the biggest problem is after 2014 where, if there is no soft landing, the problem of who invested in these years is enormous, and the damage to farms in this respect is enormous. the other aspect, the second question, concerns agricultural price controls. a year ago there was a food problem with cereals, today the price of maize and wheat has fallen by half since last year, but the consumer prices of pasta, bread and food are still high. perhaps there was a programming error or poor control. . . .
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think this is the place or the time to go into the matter. the european parliament is allowed to express an opinion only on the one subject on which the union has the power of life and death, on which half the budget is spent. my opinion is that the health check is conservative; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common agricultural policy. but my role as a member of parliament highlights the lack of transparency in the application of the cap. the commissioner signed regulation 250 in 2008, but member countries are ignoring it and will continue to do so after 30 june 2009. i think that the only way forward is to urge the appropriate monitoring bodies, but we must remember that we must shift the debate on agricultural policy to the citizens who must be informed if we are to set in motion a correct course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the positive and intelligent work which mr busk has done on this proposal, which is also part of the reform of the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables, which is intended to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, its market orientation and to counteract the decline in consumption. the proposed school fruit and vegetable promotion programme helps to introduce young people to fruit and to increase consumption. in addition, the free distribution of fruit and vegetables in schools should be aimed at combating the problems of overweight in the school population, which, as is well known, unfortunately includes over 22 million children suffering from obesity. in order to implement the school fruit distribution programme effectively, it is essential that community aid also covers all the logistical costs related to it, such as the purchase of the appropriate distributors, which would otherwise be borne by the schools or by the pupils' families. national funding should therefore be complementary in nature and should be reserved for new programmes and the extension of existing ones.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i am sorry, mr president, but there is no debate scheduled on this type of vote. i gave you the floor for a minute to explain your request, but you have gone too far. we cannot have a debate. (parliament rejected the request for referral back to committee)
the rapporteur, mrs lulling, seems to me to be clear, whether or not she can be accepted. we shall now vote on the entire motion as amended by roll call.
i would remind the house that there is no debate at this stage of the debate on the voting procedure. the rapporteur has the right, under the rules of procedure, to express her opinion and i therefore granted her that right, of course, but i did not know whether the further request for intervention was for regulatory reasons. i apologize to all my colleagues, but there are other requests for intervention and i would consider not giving them the floor to continue the voting.
mr rack, i am pleased to be able to reply to you in real time, because the services confirm to me that the voting lists record the signatures of amendments received jointly by the groups exactly in the order in which they are signed. so in this case there is no discretion in applying the alphabetical hierarchy.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this measure. kazakhstan is embarking on a process of democratization that is slower than the abnormal economic growth the country has experienced in recent years: the presence of foreign entrepreneurs who are investing large sums of money in this former soviet republic is considerable. the european union, in this context, must be a constant stimulus to action aimed at increasing the space of freedom, democracy and social justice for the kazakh people, not just a trading partner with growing interests. economic development and democracy must go hand in hand.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr saryusz-wolski and, consequently, of the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of kazakhstan, of the other part. i share the rapporteur's view and the council's view that the existence of a partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan prior to the accession of romania and bulgaria makes it necessary to draw up a protocol to the acp to enable the new member states to sign the agreement.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs niebler on the creation of a joint venture for the implementation of sesar, the next generation european air traffic management system. it is clear that large-scale community projects in the field of research and technological development require a joint effort by the public and private sectors to produce lasting beneficial effects. in this case, i believe that a new generation of harmonised air traffic management is needed to support economically and environmentally the future growth of air traffic in european skies. i therefore believe that the establishment of a joint venture in this area is highly desirable. i would, however, stress the need to learn from past experience (in this case the liquidation of the galileo joint undertaking) and to provide for a clearer definition of the status that this entity must assume, so that the benefits of scientific and technological progress are not hindered by bureaucratic and legal problems.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs wallis on the codification of the registration requirements for two- or three-wheel motor vehicles. as the directive on the registration of these types of vehicles has been amended several times, i believe that codification is necessary in order to make this community legislation more comprehensible and accessible to the public and, consequently, to enable them to exercise the rights it confers.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr mayer on the conclusion of the convention on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. i share the view of my colleague that the commission's proposal to replace the 1988 lugano convention can help to make the decision-making system faster and more effective in the areas concerned, notably the registration and validity of intellectual property rights.
in writing. i support the excellent report by mrs berès on the amendment of the council regulation on the european system of national and regional accounts in the community with regard to the commission's executive powers. following the introduction of the new committee procedure, i.e. the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, which extends parliament's powers of scrutiny over implementing measures, i believe it is necessary to continue the general adjustment process envisaged by the commission in order for the new procedure to be applied effectively.
in writing. - i support the report by mr böge on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i agree that the requests made by the four italian regions meet the requirements for determining the financial contribution as provided for in the ec regulation and are in line with the reasons for setting up the fund. today more than ever there is a need to help those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore support the request for the mobilisation of the fund as set out in the report by my colleague.
in writing. - as the radical delegation, together with marco pannella, we vote against the lehne report on mr d'alema's immunity because it reaches illogical conclusions, which can only be the result of motivations - or reflexes - of self-defence on the part of the italian and european political establishment. the report argues that the request for permission to proceed is unfounded because the intercepted material is already sufficient to support the charges against the suspects. if the pm's request were to impose charges against mr d'alema, it would be unfounded, since parliament would not be required to give a ruling under italian law. but if the intercepted material is indeed useless and the request is unfounded and even unnecessary, why should the european parliament decide not to 'authorize the use of the telephone intercepts in question and not to waive the immunity of mr massimo d'alema' as proposed in the report? why not comply with the decision of the italian parliament which, in the same investigation, granted authorization to proceed against mr fassino? we are pleased to note that the alde group has decided, by choosing to abstain, not to join the united european people's party and the european socialist group in this dubious decision.
in writing. i would like to say that i am in favour of the report by mrs lulling on the general system of excise duties. the nature of the provisions contained in the commission's proposal is clearly insufficient to guarantee eu individuals and companies the freedom to buy and sell goods across borders without unnecessary tax obstacles. although the commission proposal includes some improvements and changes, such as article 37 (tax stamps which member states may impose must not lead to a double taxation), it is necessary to extend the provisions governing the purchase by private individuals to distance sales by creating a genuine internal market for excise goods purchased by private individuals for personal use.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mr busk on the fruit programme in schools. it is clear that children in the european union eat very little fruit and vegetables, partly because of the poor diet they eat in school canteens. a high intake of fruits and vegetables, on the other hand, would reduce the risk of serious illnesses and prevent overweight and obesity. moreover, eating vegetables from childhood is a good habit that is maintained throughout life. i also agree with the rapporteur that the resources allocated by the commission to the programme are totally inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i must also say, quite frankly, that i am pleased that the commission is in any case making use of the various experiences in order to improve the quality of the programme.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr berés and mr langen on the budget for a decade of economic and monetary union. i fully agree that the european parliament, the only european body directly elected by the people, has played a very important role in this decade of economic and monetary union. the co-legislature in the internal market, especially in financial services; the dialogue on economic policy coordination through the econ committee; the ecb's main role in monetary policy is to appoint the members of the executive board of the ecb. these are just a few of the main roles played by the ep in recent years. i would like to conclude by congratulating my colleagues on the report, also in the light of the importance attached to the enlargement of the euro area, which is the springboard for a new economic future for the union.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the report by mrs bauer on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women. this age-old problem has been debated for years: it is disconcerting to note that in some eu countries, the wage differentials are largely attributable to the high level of occupational segregation and the impact of the wage structure. diversified policies are therefore needed to implement existing but ineffective legislation. i welcome the work done by the honourable member to consolidate the existing provision, taking into account the fact that economic segregation is hardly affected by this type of legislation. finally, i support the cause because there is a need for wage policies aimed at reducing wage inequalities and at better remuneration of low-paid jobs, in which women predominate.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr ehler's report on the promotion of the rapid demonstration of sustainable energy production from fossil fuels. it is clear that the european union will only achieve the ambitious objectives of its climate policy if it can ensure that ccs technologies are widely used in power stations. the strategic importance of coal should not prevent the climate-friendly use of this valuable resource. i also agree with the rapporteur that the commission has taken very little action to ensure that these ambitious projects are completed by 2015. finally, i welcome the point made by the honourable member, who stresses the lack of a specific legislature to determine the source of the financial resources. a void that absolutely needs to be filled.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis is now, as was easy to predict, affecting the real economy too, and we believe that this is the price the european union is paying for the delay, or rather the refusal, in building a european regulatory system and in implementing in good time financial solidarity mechanisms and a banking supervision worthy of the name. among those responsible for this delay, among those who support this approach, which has put europe in a situation of profound uncertainty and recession, are you, president barroso, yourself and the majority of your commission. and i would like you, mr president, when you are speaking eloquently and talking about possible solutions, to say loud and clear that those who wanted rules and transparency, those who rejected the totem of deregulation were right, and i and a part of my committee - some are also sitting behind you - were wrong. only then will what you are saying today be credible, and the excuse that the majority of member states were against all this is not valid. as i have said on many occasions since 2004, you have systematically chosen to ally yourself with national governments rather than parliament, with industry rather than consumers, and if i were a moralist, i would say with the strong rather than the right. and this approach, which joschka fischer theorized in her famous humboldt speech, where she envisaged the commission as a mere secretariat of the council, is faithfully reflected in the work programme which you are presenting to us today, in the priorities of internal and external policy. in the priorities of foreign policy i would like to stress above all the continuing and culpable neglect of human rights, starting of course with china. the doha agenda is still being defended a little too superficially, without understanding that the financial crisis has wiped out all the assumptions for it. in the internal policy area, when it comes to immigration, your commission has once again succumbed to pressure from the member states in recent years, so that today, when we talk about legal immigration, we are really talking about legislative instruments which are still very weak, and the same can be said for social policy. president-in-office of the council, president of the commission, that is certainly not how we are going to get the green new deal, as the greens have been calling it for many months now, off the ground. a green new deal has a very specific meaning and it's certainly not this confused rattling noise that you hear around and that really means "all the same as before with a little green here and there". we are talking about a common long-term investment strategy to achieve the objectives of energy efficiency and the green conversion of the economy, of reducing co2, with a strengthened role for the european investment bank, which must, however, be consistent in its decisions about who and what to finance. no ambiguity about useless mega-infrastructure or nuclear or rain-funding for non-virtuous projects. no public funds or blank checks for the automotive industry as it is. it would be like continuing to throw money out the window and we think we don't want to throw money out the window anymore.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago in this very house president sarkozy told us that the crisis we are experiencing is structural and that capitalism needs to be re-founded. of course, i think that rather than emerging from the crisis of capitalism, we must emerge from capitalism in crisis, that is, we must begin to think about a new future that envisages a real transition to a socially and ecologically informed economy, an economic democracy based on equity and cooperation instead of inequality and war. but beyond these substantive differences, which are also important, i note that there is little left of the solemn declarations on the re-foundation of capitalism in the very modest and very disappointing outcome of this g20, for which europe also bears responsibility. it has been found that the liberal dogma can be falsified and that there can therefore be large-scale public interventions and even nationalisation, but this does not change the underlying logic that has created the structural crisis. of course, it is said that rules are needed to reduce the risks of speculation, but there is no thought of intervening in this financial speculation - for example, with a tobin tax on transactions - and no mention is made of the stability pact which, in the face of recession, risks dramatically worsening life on our continent, but above all, no one asks what is at the root of this crisis and therefore fails to deal with it. i only point to two points: the first is the systematic devaluation of work pursued by liberal policies over these decades, which ended up creating not only injustice and suffering, but a significant part of the financial insolvency itself. in 1929 keynes proposed to invest in wages and jobs, today we don't do that. the second is the ecological and energy dimension of the crisis, which calls for choices that are much clearer and more precise than the babble of the g20, but which it is very difficult for the very people who created the crisis to solve. we need a clear and different word from the left.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis and the economic slowdown underline the central role that the states and then the union should play in ensuring socioeconomic well-being, but it must also be stressed that politics must take back full control of the economy and put every possible obstacle in the way of virtual finance, which remains the master of the destinies of millions of people. reducing the impact of the global slowdown on the european economy, in terms of jobs and economic activity, must mean promoting a european social approach. this should be the priority for 2009: employment and social protection for growth. finally, practical steps to reform the rules of the european financial system are coming, finally, after having let the banking and financial system plunder and squeeze public and private citizens' wealth. i think the commission's strategy to support those who are losing their jobs, as well as support for small and mediumsized enterprises and investment in research, is too late and too minimal. it is particularly well known that the acceleration and implementation of cohesion programmes distracts attention from other needs. before they worry about establishing confidence in the markets, governments and commissions should restore the confidence of the citizens in the independence of those who govern them from the game of stateless finance.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, from our point of view, this crisis, although it has necessitated a restructuring of the banking financial landscape of our continent, has not, to put it bluntly, produced in europe a group of serious financial actors who are really capable of shaping the future framework of the markets. this one doesn't show, this one doesn't show. one thing is certain: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is the big missing theme, which does not emerge in the official discussion of the states, those tax havens that allow to completely circumvent the rules that you want to put, that you promise on the financial markets. president-elect obama, as a senator, proposed tough measures against them and it is questionable whether as new president, given these high-level financial interests that seem to have determined their moves and especially with generous billions of dollars in election funding, he will have the courage to act in this direction and convince the united states, europe and particularly britain to take part in this plan. i believe that we must ask that general declarations of principle be followed by effective, concrete initiatives, capable of bringing about the economic and productive recovery needed to avert new economic crises and to overcome the present crisis. in view of the current situation of widespread and general market indebtedness and violent deflation due to insufficient money circulation, it is absurd to assume that states will continue to borrow from private central banks in order to provide liquidity for their credit systems and for the consumer goods production market. i would like to conclude with a remark: it seems to me that it is quite obvious to prophesy that the crisis will lead to the creation of a world economic and political body, the world order that until a few months ago was feared and avoided by everyone, and which today seems to have become inevitable, desirable as if it were salvation. no to globalism!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the statements by the council and the commission on the union's response to the grave crisis in the congo are as usual hypocritical and ineffective. behind laurent nkunda are rwanda and uganda, countries that have always been interested in the region and have tried to invade it several times in the recent past: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the resources of the congolese underground and eastern region are not left to others. since january, three times as many weapons have been bought as in 2007, some of which, as far as the rwandan side is concerned, ended up in the hands of the nkunda rebels with the results we see today. but for years washington has focused its attention on the great lakes region, and particularly on uganda and rwanda. in kampala, for example, there's the largest american embassy in africa; nothing happens in uganda and rwanda without the consent of the united states. now, this quick back-and-forth by the european union on the possibility of sending a peace force to the region is a signal as usual wrong because they prefer to rely on diplomacy, as if diplomacy is enough to convince a jerk like nkunda to withdraw. as usual, we are discussing nothing and we hear commissioner michel praising nkunda almost, congratulations on that!
mr president, it would be easy for us to forget about africa’s problem, given our own economic difficulties, but it would be a dreadful mistake. i think we need to put pressure on the african union to realise its own responsibilities in the region. if the african union is ever to assume the same kind of gravitas as the eu, it needs to put words into action – something it has conspicuously failed to do, for example, over zimbabwe. we should also not hesitate to link our long-term trade and aid relationship with countries like the drc to their respect for human rights, good governance and transparency. in this light, i hope the commission will reiterate its support for the extractive industries transparency initiative.
in writing. the resolution on the republic of congo represents a specific commitment for the european union in this part of the world: but this time, we have a responsibility, given the gravity of the crisis, to make our words follow our deeds. the un, as always, is babbling solutions: the european union should take the initiative to try to mediate peace between the parties to the conflict. i would like to thank the commission for a particularly important signal that has been sent in the congo in recent weeks: the commission has also decided to grant eur 75 million for a programme to rebuild the country's administrative and government structures, including the judiciary and the police. this step is particularly significant because it operates in the present looking to the future and it begins to address the core issue of this story: the exploitation of the congolese natural resources, which is currently the subject of a very bitter and unregulated dispute between the various warring groups, is a matter of concern to the congolese authorities.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, the deep crisis in the world economy has hit the european automobile sector in the third quarter of this year, after a performance which was still good in the second quarter of the year. all the major global automotive markets are affected, but not with the same severity. in the united states, sales fell by 32% year on year, reaching the lowest level in 25 years. the three major american automakers general motors, ford and chrysler have requested emergency assistance from the federal government. emerging markets, which until this summer were compensating for the decline in sales in these countries, are also affected by the crisis, but to a lesser extent. in china, sales fell by 1.4% in september. this is the second consecutive month of decline in china, after a 6.3% decline in august. in brazil, car sales fell by 11 percent last month for the first time since 1999. in russia, there is no fall in the automobile market yet, but there is a sharp slowdown in this market, which could experience the first declines as early as the beginning of next year. so we can see that the situation is also deteriorating in the large emerging countries. in europe, registrations fell by almost 4% between the beginning of the year and last august. the end of the year could prove difficult and the decline in the automobile market would be of the order of 5% for the whole of 2008, which would be the worst result recorded for this market since 1993. the automobile industry worldwide, however, is making considerable efforts to cope with the crisis and to try to find the foundations for new growth. the measures to reduce production will have a negative impact on employment in all value chains and on demand, as we shall see in the coming days. despite the difficult economic situation, the large european manufacturers will remain profitable in 2008, although the pace of margin growth will of course slow down: they can still maintain this profitable situation given the very significant productivity gains that have been made in recent years. the competitive position of european industry remains relatively good - i weigh my words - because of three factors. firstly, because european industry is increasingly present in emerging countries, which are both markets and production sites. and it is in these emerging countries that growth, even if it slows down as i indicated earlier, remains an engine. the second factor is that there is a better new model policy, with models that are more economical, more environmentally friendly and closer to consumer demand. finally, as i have indicated, given the productivity gains that have been made in the past, the financial situation of european industry still remains relatively healthy to this day. in this situation, a policy of vigilance is particularly needed to prevent state aid granted to non-european producers by their governments from distorting fair competition on the world market, especially in emerging markets. targeted and temporary measures to support european producers could be useful, in particular to further improve the technological and ecological performance of the european car fleet, whose regulatory environment, as we know, remains the most demanding in the world in terms of environmental legislation. this has led european manufacturers to invest more heavily than their main us competitors in research and development to meet these environmental challenges. we can only welcome the fact that our industry has thus gained a head start in the environmental field, but we must be vigilant and ensure that it does maintain it. the commission - i will let commissioner verheugen develop it - will make proposals on 26 november on european measures to support industry, particularly the automotive sector. the european investment bank is also called upon and should participate in the effort being prepared at european level. member states should provide the commission with appropriate resources, if necessary, to enable it to provide new resources in support of the automotive sector. member states are also considering national measures to support their manufacturers. these efforts must be coordinated in order to maximise the effectiveness of these supports. as it has done in other areas of crisis response, the french presidency will do its utmost to secure joint action by europeans on this major industrial issue. the european council in december will discuss the commission's proposals and the various national support plans that could have been put in place by then. this is of course to be done in full coherence with the other political objectives of the union. in particular, support for the automotive sector must respect the integrity of the internal market. it is in no one's interest to take advantage of the crisis to create distortions in the car market, and this support must, of course, be firmly in line with the environmental objectives that the union has set itself in the framework of the energy-climate package. i think that is what the commission is working towards. the presidency is determined to promote the emergence of a balanced agreement between the member states and with your parliament on a coordinated offensive approach to support the automotive industries.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not surprising that the financial crisis first hit the car market hard in its effects on the real economy. the car market is particularly sensitive to consumer behaviour. it is clear that in this situation, consumers who are not clear about their own economic future, who do not know whether they will still have a job next year, whether their income will be the same, whether they will still have their wealth, will not buy a new car in the first place. it's a known and probably natural reaction. but it is not only the crisis in the financial markets that is causing this reluctance, there is also uncertainty among manufacturers and consumers about the demands that politics will place on the car of the future. for example, consumers do not know whether they can expect tax benefits or subsidies when buying or not buying certain cars. it is therefore necessary that the legal framework for industry be clarified as soon as possible. the situation is clear. the automobile industry is a key industry, if not the dish industry, for europe, and it is not just the manufacture of cars. we must look at the whole supply chain and the whole car market, which is also made up of car dealerships and car repair shops. we have a sector with 12 million people in europe and a far-reaching impact on other sectors. the presidency has already shown the declines. i will give you another figure: so far this year 700 000 fewer new cars have been registered in europe than last year, and this has happened mainly in the last few months, so that the figure will probably rise to over one million by the end of the year. you can imagine very easily the economic impact of this. we do not yet have any hope that this will change very quickly in 2009, i.e. we have to assume that 2009 will also be a year of crisis for the automotive industry, with significant effects on capacity utilisation, the number of employees and the investment capacity of car manufacturers, especially with regard to the large investments needed to meet the requirements for low-emission and low-consumption motor vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. the older the fleet that drives on europe's roads, the greater the pollution load, and this is a very important point to bear in mind. if we really want to reduce the pollution load, especially co2 - and this is our common priority - the key is to renew the fleet currently on europe's roads as quickly as possible. for some time now, the opposite has been happening. the fleet is getting older and older, and the pollution is getting worse. i am very clear that unless all those involved - parliament, the council and the commission - take very careful care to ensure that cars remain affordable for consumers in the years to come, the situation will get worse. we can of course now offer zero-emission cars. but no one can afford these cars. so we have to put things in a reasonable relationship here. we have, as you know, the cars 21 trial. because we recognised the seriousness of the situation very early on, i organized a so-called car summit in brussels a few weeks ago as part of this process with the manufacturers, the member states where cars are produced, the trade unions, the environmental associations and all the parties involved. and in doing so, a few things have become very clear that we need to do. firstly, we must indeed keep the legal framework stable and predictable. the industry needs to know where it stands and what we expect of it. we must keep in mind the cumulative effects of our actions. i would remind you that co2 is not the only thing we are discussing in relation to the automobile industry at the moment. we have already adopted euro 5 and euro 6. the measures have not yet been implemented. and they too require high investment and lead to an increase in the price of vehicles. we have already decided on additional requirements for pedestrian protection. this also leads to a high investment requirement, and this makes cars more expensive. we already have other stringent provisions in the legislative process to improve the safety of european vehicles. it has the same effect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. secondly, we agreed that demand must be strengthened. there are a number of ways in which this can be done. i think tax incentives are a good instrument, but only if they are carbon-based tax incentives. tax incentives that simply lead to people buying cars of any kind are actually of little use. the aim must be to increase the demand for low-consumption and environmentally friendly cars. this is also true of public procurement. finally, there is the question of investment capacity. the european investment bank has for some years been providing a credit line to manufacturers, offering low-interest loans specifically for the development of new environmentally friendly cars. these lines of credit have also been used in recent years, so this is nothing new. the aim now is to increase these credit lines in such a way that the demand can be met. the european investment bank is also prepared to do so. i expect that we will have the relevant decisions in the course of the month of december. finally, i would like to point out that we must also ensure that the future viability of the european automotive industry is defended in trade policy. competition will increasingly shift to the regions of the world with high growth prospects. we are, of course, competing with producers in other parts of the world who produce under much more favourable conditions than european producers. let me be clear . the great advantage that european manufacturers have in the global competition is the fact that europe will soon offer the cleanest and safest cars in the world, and i hope that in terms of quality we will continue to offer the best cars. let me say a few words about the current problem which has led to this debate today. a manufacturer in europe, adam opel gmbh in germany, a wholly owned subsidiary of general motors, is currently in a very worrying financial situation. there are negotiations between opel and the german government on the possibility of a state guarantee to resolve opel's financing problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our european industrial policy is doing everything it can to avoid a return to the old subsidy mentality and instead to help industry to grow and to compete by providing a predictable, stable framework. the problem at opel was not caused by management errors, poor production or poor quality of cars. in recent years, the company has made a special effort to meet the requirements of the future by investing heavily in modern technology. the problem was caused solely by the crisis situation in the american parent company. i really think that these are extraordinary circumstances. the commission has not yet received any information on the extent of the infringement. i would like to say again that we are not talking about subsidies, but about a possible guarantee. this company is competitive! we have no interest from a european point of view in having it disappear from the market, and it is not a purely german problem either. opel is a manufacturer in several european countries. opel has a supply chain all over europe. this supply chain is closely linked to all other car manufacturers, so that the disappearance of a major european manufacturer will have consequences for all others. as i said, we cannot be interested in this, and it goes without saying that it is not justifiable from a social-political point of view to say that the employees of opel have to pay the piper for - i want to say this clearly - serious and irresponsible mistakes made at the parent company in the united states. (applause from the centre) we shall therefore see what decision the governments concerned take, and i am specifically saying governments, which has not been seen strongly enough by the public so far. we also have a problem in sweden with another general motors subsidiary, saab, where the problems are even more difficult structurally. we also have a problem in spain where the supervised production of a new environmentally friendly vehicle is being called into question. i say from a european point of view that we will do our utmost to help european manufacturers get through this difficult period and to continue to play their role as a real engine for sustainable growth and good jobs in europe. (applause from the centre)
the european union's manufacturing sector produces a third of the cars produced in the world. the sector employs three million people in europe plus the entire industry, and is one of the main industries in the world in terms of direct turnover, indirect turnover and total employment. we also note that today, as we are holding this debate, the latest estimates predict a doubling of the number of unemployed in the european union next year. i personally find this forecast to be optimistic. the automobile industry must be helped, i agree with the commissioner, in the effort we need to make to produce low-emission and low-fuel cars. we must help transformation and not punish those who are left behind, we must link funding to innovation. while helping car manufacturers to get back on their feet may seem onerous, the failure of some of them would cost the community much, much more. the sector is in crisis, it is in crisis all over the world and from this situation we can get out by making a technological leap. we agree. it is true that banks are no longer lending money, that the big car manufacturers are running out of the liquidity they had previously accumulated and which survived until the middle of this year, that the market has suffered a major contraction and will end 2008 with a minus sign, i believe, mr council representative, with a percentage closer to the double digits, while my forecasts for 2009 are pessimistic. europe has a great opportunity: support the structural development of the sector in a non-discriminatory manner through long-term, low-interest loans and research grants.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate is appropriate on one of the most critical sectors of the european economy. the global economy is getting worse and worse and the already bad momentum for the automotive sector in italy and europe is getting worse. the figures were mentioned earlier by the minister, there is a sharp decrease in sales of 5% in 2008, in italy the decline is over 18 percentage points in october alone, which represents the worst figure for more than ten years to this part. it is therefore a crisis affecting all the major european markets, but i would like to stress that it is not just the car manufacturing sector that is affected by this crisis, but the whole industry, with particularly negative effects on the companies specialising in the production of car components. as i said, the crisis in the sector is widespread, and i will only take as an example the situation in the italian coastal region of tuscany in particular, where in recent months, as a result of the relocation processes, there has been a massive use of the integration fund imposed on hundreds of workers, and the dismissal of employees hired on temporary contracts. the delfi group has been in the red for two and a half years and urgent measures are needed to relocate its workers, starting with the relocation of the local authorities. but it is now clear that the national, regional and local institutions are partially powerless, which is why europe must take a strong stand and intervene, also in a confrontation with multinational companies, on the problems of relocation and therefore the need to adopt measures at european level to contain this crisis in order to avoid its impact on social and employment levels.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has taught us that we must return to the real economy and therefore help to revive european manufacturing, especially at a time when obama's america is about to alter world economic relations in some way. we must not talk about state aid, but we must strengthen our manufacturing industry in three directions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not forget the investment in research in this field and also in major infrastructures, both tangible and intangible. we have to play a level playing field within the world. today the rules are changing, and we must take advantage of the conclusions of the g20 to restore a level playing field.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the very serious crisis affecting the car industry from america to our continent, europe is faced with a very clear dilemma: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are firmly in favour of the latter option and we ask the commission and the council to take a decision and to be resolute. we have appreciated the words of commissioner verheugen and we hope that some colleagues will not put too much pressure on this determination. this is an exceptional situation and therefore the answers must be exceptional. the financial crisis has shown us that some political and economic authorities have made choices in their behaviour and in the way they invest public resources that were unthinkable a few months ago. but our intervention, i conclude, must be selective, must reconcile strategy with emergency, must support, both through credit facilities and demand support, a selective orientation towards more environmentally sustainable production.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the eurogroup and prime minister of luxembourg, mr juncker, has said that a european rescue strategy for the automobile industry is needed in response to the rescue plan announced by the united states. i fully agree with what has been said and i hope that it will happen. the european investment bank, at the next meeting of the finance ministers of the member states, will propose an increase in lending volumes of 20 and 30% in 2009 and 2010, i.e. 10 to 15 billion a year for the automobile industry, which is the most appropriate choice. some member states have already taken action on their own: the german government, for example, presented earlier this month a plan to help the economy, with the idea of generating new investment of 50 billion euros in the coming year. the automotive sector is one of the main sectors affected. i hope that the european commission will do the same in the college. aid to the sector must be invested within the european union and thus be directed at firms which do not relocate their production. any choice of aid to firms is highly desirable in the circumstances and must have as its main objective the strengthening of employment and the stimulation of investment in the european territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to make the reasons for my final vote against the santos reports 0401 and 02 public. the report is an assessment of the community's agricultural policy which does not take account of the changing world conditions. we're discussing the details without seeing the main problem. the cap we are examining with the health check was designed to reduce agricultural production in favour of environmental protection, because that was the context in which it was created. we all know that today the structural conditions have changed, but the cap remains more or less the same and we are discussing whether one or two, more or less, are better than this or that intervention which is no longer necessary for the challenges of the future. i cannot accept this endless mediation of small specific interests while ignoring the general ones. i am convinced that agriculture is the first victim of this lack of courage. to provoke a dialogue, a discussion, i voted against; the technical details which cannot be contained in a one-minute speech are left on my website where i will publish my specific motivations.
in writing. - i confirm my vote in favour of the capoulas santos report, but i note two aspects which risk becoming unsustainable for farmers in my country. the first point concerns milk quotas: the 1% increase, which is the result of the compromise reached, is a step too short and does not meet the legitimate demands of the farmers. another unsatisfactory argument concerns tobacco funds: i am firmly convinced that the aid should be extended, even if this is contrary to the views of my group. a cut in subsidies would not in any way combat smoking, but would have a negative impact on the protection of the workplace in a sector which employs over 500,000 people in the 27 member states. i hope that the proposal will improve in the steps following today's approval.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, on behalf of my group, join in the condolences to mrs klamt. i should like to get straight to the point of today's debate, given that the european union continues to adopt a schizophrenic policy on immigration. the policies of the member states shall: member countries signed the immigration and asylum pact, which explicitly states that zero immigration is harmful and unrealistic for the european union, except to find out that my own country's interior minister is predicting the closure of borders for the next two years. and the community's immigration policy is still schizophrenic. mr gaubert is right when he says that we are facing a demographic crisis in europe and that we need more immigration, and the commission explains this to us: we need 50 million immigrants by 2060, but we are doing nothing to bring them in, and instead we have harmonized the return policy as a priority. today we are discussing a single residence and work permit for those who are already present in the territory of the european union, we are instituting the blue card for highly qualified workers who only affect between 1.5 and 3% of the immigration rate in europe, so a minimal part of the real needs of workers needed in europe. there are currently about 6 million irregular workers in the european union who are already absorbed into the labour market and who are kept in irregular conditions because it is obvious that the underground is convenient for lowering the cost of labour and limiting social protection. we think that we should start with a process of regularising these workers who are already absorbed into the labour market, we think that the blue card is a wrong idea, that of selecting upstream of immigration, we think that the definition of highly qualified workers is too restrictive and we think that community preference is absolutely a form of discrimination. we believe that there should be a complete change in immigration policy. we can read the fact that the blue card is the first signal to open legal channels of immigration, but this is not enough to guarantee the positive vote of our group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for many years we have heard a series of invitations accompanied by tables on the subject of immigration, in which we have been told the fairy tale of the need - including un reports - for the continuing expansion of the western economy, particularly of the european countries, for tens, perhaps hundreds of millions of new workers for europe. now, unfortunately for all, the financial crisis forces everyone in our country, even the most important union, the cgl, at least through some of its representatives in the veneto areas, to say: "honestly, our workers are in danger of losing their jobs, we have to start taking their jobs seriously". the commission is right to reject all these fairy tales of the past and to deal with the 3% of immigration that can still be useful, whose entry can have justifiable reasons. i am sure that europe needs and can use skilled immigrants, but there is a big obstacle in the right of these countries not to have their best minds stolen. so this proposal is good in itself, but it lacks the final development, which is to encourage and facilitate the return of these skilled workers to their countries to save them from the effects of globalisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that europe is making a strategic mistake in thinking that we have to import qualified personnel from other countries, from other continents, when it should be our institutes, our schools, our universities that train highly qualified workers in accordance with a new strategic approach. so we really do not have an idea of what the future of europe will be, and so nobody thinks about who we will have to call in the next ten or fifteen years to run our high-tech factories or plants. secondly, we must also say that this will certainly lead to a reduction in the social security benefits for those who carry out this work in italy and other european countries. there will be wage dumping, and that's typical of some immigration policies. and then, at a time of dramatic crisis due to the financial collapse, we cannot think that in addition to our own unemployed we will have the problem of unemployed people from outside the community, who will inevitably pose a problem for the civil order and security of our peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group is quite satisfied with these two proposals. the number of amendments we have tried to make to improve these texts is sufficient to show that we are not quite satisfied with them, and we are satisfied that, for lack of ambition, we think that more could have been done. there are signs of openness and civility, which are immediately followed, even sometimes in the debate in this parliament, by signs of rigidity, especially from the council, of great and strong protectionism. this also applies to the blue card: there is resistance to some of the central principles, 'equal work, equal pay', which is a sacred and natural principle, but we also found some bitterness in this. we believe that it is essential to overcome the principle of community preference, to overcome the idea that there is a europe that travels at two speeds, which is why the principle of community preference must prevail. we believe that the reference to the labour market is important, but the labour market cannot be the only regulatory principle. there are other inclusive principles of political and social civility that need to be in immigration policies. legal immigration means equal dignity and opportunity, or we go back to "choisie", selective, partial, discriminatory immigration. we'd like to avoid that. i would also like to say on behalf of the group that i support mr moreno's proposal to the commission: we are trying to think of a blue card which is not just linked to the 3% of highly qualified immigrants, but which seeks to find legal and practical instruments to open up the market to immigration. immigration must be inclusive, if it becomes a choice it is no longer a positive policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, another absurd initiative by the union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of migrant workers. the rapporteur believes that this is necessary to cope with the demographic decline. it says: "germany needs 95,000 engineers", if they pay them well, rest assured that we could send several thousand from italy. this absurd initiative not only takes away qualified personnel from developing countries, but it ignores the amount of qualified unemployment we have in europe, the legitimate fears of our young graduates and graduates, and instead of encouraging them to start their careers, to strengthen their capacity for study and research, to guarantee them a future of work and professional qualifications, we introduce a further factor of dubious competition and undoubted exploitation. the line between insanity and criminality in human behaviour is often blurred, and i think the union is giving another example of this today.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cluster bombs are in fact weapons of mass destruction, inhuman devices, if there is anything human about war. a publication of the u.s. army, field artillery, writes: "small unexploded bombs are a problem for the innocent population, for our own light forces, for infantry and for those who walk after the bombing of an urban area", yet they continue to be produced and used and contaminated land with unexploded ordnance continues to sow death for years and years, we have seen it in georgia as well. in oslo, at the conference against the use, production and stockpiling of cluster munitions, a 24-year-old lebanese man, ibrahim, with his body devastated by the amputation of his leg, came to me and said, "pleased to meet you. i'm a survivor". i wanted to die, but i just hugged him. i went to visit him in his village in southern lebanon, i saw in the courtyards of the houses, of the schools, in the grass, on the trees, unexploded bombs, dropped by israeli planes. they have launched more than 1,400,000 and launched in the last few days, when the truce and ceasefire had already been declared. pure cruelty, and how many children, women and men i met in afghanistan in the emergency hospitals, with mutilated bodies; there are thousands of children around the world who have been maimed by playing with cluster bomb fragments, attracted by those colorful objects. in dublin, after ten days of debate, 109 countries committed themselves to sign the ban on lethal weapons, to provide assistance to victims and to clean up the affected areas, but the agreement also provides that all arsenals must be destroyed within eight years. they will certainly not do so unless there is strong pressure from all the countries that are signatories to the united nations and the countries that are responsible for crimes against the civilian population - countries like israel, the united states, russia, china, india, pakistan - that did not show up in dublin and said no to the abolition of cluster bombs. secretary of defense robert gates attempted to explain the american resistance: cluster bombs are an effective weapon against a wide variety of targets. the dead in iraq, afghanistan and the former yugoslavia certainly have experienced this. once again europe is showing sensitivity to the 22 countries which have signed and acceded to the dublin pact, but concrete action is needed. the treaty will be officially signed in oslo on 2 and 3 december, but it will have to be ratified. we must do this immediately and thwart any attempt to circumvent the treaty, and i believe that the council will really have to define effective political and financial instruments to ensure that the treaty is implemented and that there are no more deaths of this kind, deaths from weapons of mass destruction.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just for the information of the council presidency, if you, mr president, can refer this to your predecessors: earlier it was said that here in this room, there are three people sitting here who were born on the same day as neil armstrong. in fact, a european astronaut of italian origin was a member of this house between 1994 and 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but that it should be a matter of the member states and the commission. my colleague was minister of defence in one of the member states, and i come from the military world. i consider this project of the worldwide abolition of cluster bombs a fact, i said, of civilization and of humanity. why would you do that? i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the conflict, but that it should be involved in the peace process, and that it should be involved in the peace process. but what these weapons, these munitions around the world do is obvious, in all the war scenarios the data is what it is, but the worst thing is that it doesn't end with the war, it continues even after because the territory remains contaminated, it remains in time. unfortunately, the war scenario is also one of those in countries which are certainly not very advanced in civilization, and so there remains this willingness to rush even locally to use finds that are on the ground and which are then the cause of most of the physical distortions that occur in relation to children, in relation to young people. many films have been and are continually being shown around the world about the consequences of using these weapons. i therefore ask the council, i ask on behalf of my group, i ask the european parliament to insist on this matter, i hope that it will all turn into ratification of this convention which i believe is one of the most important aspects of civility and humanity that the european union can do.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs beer, mrs gomes, mrs neyts-uyttebroeck, whom i personally thank for her good wishes, mrs morgantini, mr kristovskis and mr zappalà, you are all absolutely right: as mr zappalà said, this is a matter of civilization and humanity. all the member states of the european union share the humanitarian concerns raised by cluster munitions. the european union supports the adoption of an international instrument banning cluster munitions, which cause unacceptable harm to civilian populations. this is why all the member states of the european union attended the dublin conference, either as stakeholders like the vast majority of member states , or as observers. the european union is of course the party involved; that's what you're supposed to understand by this rather complicated sentence. as for the decision to sign or ratify, it is a sovereign decision for each member state, but like mrs neyts i regret that not all of them will be able to sign by december. the vast majority of the member states of the union have announced their intention to sign the convention in the coming weeks, and i would like to point this out and tell mrs morgantini that she is right, that concrete steps must be taken before the convention enters into force. for example, the country i know best, france, decided in may 2008 to immediately withdraw 90% of its cluster munitions stockpile. but as you know, a number of member states have not yet taken a decision. the french presidency announced at the dublin conference at the end of may that it would sign the convention at the beginning of december. the presidency would like to draw the attention of all members to the cluster munitions negotiations under way at the convention on certain conventional weapons the ccw , which is the only forum in which the major military powers the united states, russia, china and india, or countries such as georgia , agree to participate, which is not the case for the oslo convention. i would point out that these countries have not indicated their intention to sign this convention. all the member states of the european union are parties to this convention and call for the adoption of a protocol on cluster munitions. it is also through commitments made in this house, and mr kristovskis was quite right to emphasize this, that it will be possible to achieve developments on the ground. thus, deaths such as those caused by cluster munitions in georgia could be avoided in the future if negotiations under this universal convention could succeed. as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, cluster munitions are a subject which is mobilizing the european union, which must continue to work at international level for the adoption of a universal instrument. in any case, that is the aim of the french presidency's efforts to convince all the partners, and we in france will continue to do so.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say with all seriousness and gravity that i was very proud to take part in the debate we have just had on cluster munitions and that, on behalf of the presidency, i join all those who have called for the ratification of the convention. the european union already acknowledged in 2007 the urgency with which these humanitarian concerns around cluster munitions needed to be addressed. i would remind you that some member states of the union have played an active role, both in the oslo process and in the framework of the convention on certain conventional weapons. we believe that this convention on certain conventional weapons and the oslo process are mutually reinforcing and it is the honour of your assembly and of all those who have spoken to recall the values to which europeans are attached. we call on all the member states to join us for the reasons which you have put forward in a more moving way than i have in this debate.
i have received two motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 108 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on the report (b6-0484/2008). questions to the commission will be considered. part one
vice-president of the commission. − the most important question right now is: what are the next steps for the commission in the coming week to actually deal with the effects on the real economy? we are going to present a package – which is being worked on at the moment – where we identify the different policy fields where we think we can mitigate the impact on the real economy in the short run, whilst sticking to the existing medium-term reform priorities of the lisbon strategy. that will be the framework within which we work. we hope that we can find actions which will help to bolster aggregate demand; on the demand side we want to reduce inflationary pressures and help the purchasing power of households. we have to do more on the labour market and, as you say, front-load investments. we hope that this will also help the issues and the actions taken when it comes to the energy and climate change package, because we will need money for investments. we hope that will help to push in this difficult period. on the labour markets, for example, activation policies can be very helpful. in reply to the last question i would say that we want member states to coordinate action. we think the worst thing would be if everybody went in different directions doing whatever they thought was the right thing to do in their respective member states. we want them rather to discuss, coordinate and cooperate as much as possible, because the effects will be felt on the whole economy in europe. we prefer actions in a coordinated way. what about the long lead time or the long time to prepare? you would be surprised. as i said yesterday in the debate on the financial crisis, the commission, for the first time, has managed within 24 hours to get proposals on the table. we have to respond to this very serious crisis in such a way that we do not take too long to prepare the different proposals. we have all been instructed or we have all wanted to see in our respective policy areas how we can help, how we can overcome the long period to prepare, how can we do it more quickly yet do it in a coordinated and respectful way. we are trying to get the proposals on the table as quickly as possible and we are stretching all our possibilities as much as possible. this is the starting point for the commission at this moment.
question no 34 by mr boguslaw sonik (h-0850/08) subject: the situation in poland subject: the different limits on blood alcohol levels for drivers in the euin many eu member states, such as the uk, italy, ireland and luxembourg, the maximum blood alcohol level for driving a vehicle has been set at 0.8 mg/l. in slovakia and hungary, which prohibit driving after consuming even a small amount of alcohol, driving a vehicle under the influence of the above-mentioned alcohol level would constitute a serious offence. in poland, the principles governing the driving of motor vehicles, defined by the law of 20 june 1997 on the road traffic code (oj no 108 of 2005, item 908 as amended), stipulate that the maximum blood alcohol level allowed for driving is 0,2 mg/l. the fact that the blood alcohol level exceeds 0.5 mg/l is already a criminal offence punishable by a maximum of two years' imprisonment. in the context of the trend towards harmonisation of road traffic rules in the european union, does the commission intend to take steps to harmonise the alcohol content of alcohol permitted for driving in the territory of the eu member states?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions that have been asked, because they also make it possible to clarify the position of the european union. mr leichtfried, when you spoke, quite rightly, about the political problems we found, the political problems concern the member states, we saw that unfortunately the commission proposal was not accepted despite a great deal of effort. we have continued to insist and will continue to insist, despite the failure to reach agreement with the member states on the proposal for a directive. i repeat what i said at the hearing in which the commission and parliament gave me their confidence: i will continue to make road safety a priority. i also intend to continue to support all the projects and programmes - and i am also replying to mr druid - which have to be given priority in the matter of informing young people and educating young people. it is not the means that cause accidents, it is certainly important to have safe means, it is important to have safe roads and this parliament has decided, in agreement with the commission, to adopt some choices also as regards the infrastructure part, but the main problem is the education of those who get behind the wheel or those who get on a motorcycle. we have a duty to start training young people, so i fully agree with your position and i will do everything to ensure that programmes of the european union and the commission to train young people in schools are always funded. it is not by chance that i have chosen, ladies and gentlemen, as the commission's witness, the former world champion who is a young man. we must try to communicate to young people, through young people who do not preach, what a good father can do, but who are able to explain to them what the real risks are, because every young person actually when he leaves the disco feels free from any risk. unfortunately, this is not the case, we have to work with schools, we have to work with families, so that every young person is made aware of the risks he runs whenever he gets behind the wheel and especially if he uses alcohol or drugs. as regards the issue of smoking, i will ask the services to investigate whether there are indeed any additional risks for smokers or not. i cannot give you an answer, because from a scientific point of view i do not know, but i will, i repeat, instruct the services to verify all this. i think i have also answered mr sonik by reaffirming my commitment, and i think i can say this for the commission - vice-president wallström is also responsible for communication - that we will do everything we can to inform citizens, and especially young citizens, who are therefore beginners, of the risks and dangers they face every time they use transport.
question no 35 by mrs batzeli (h-0861/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the interinstitutional agreement on the theme 'communicating europe in partnership' on 22 october 2008, representatives of the european parliament, the european commission and the council signed a political declaration for interinstitutional cooperation on communication highlighting the eu's priorities for the first time in the eu's history. this agreement is of the utmost importance, since it seeks to provide an effective solution to the major democratic problem of the lack of information of european citizens, and it is also of crucial importance from a chronological point of view, since we are in a pre-electoral period for the eu. what will be the priorities and main messages of this unified community communication policy for the coming year and, in particular, during the pre-election period? how will the cooperation of the three community bodies be promoted in the joint definition of the priorities and objectives of this communication policy and their cooperation with the individual competent national authorities? in particular, what will be the relationship between community policy and national communication policies in relation to the eu? what are the means of implementing this new community communication policy and what role will the new communication technologies play? what will be the role of multilingualism in this context? what community resources will be used to finance the various measures of the newly established communication policy?
vice-president of the commission. − thank you for these important follow-up questions. let me say what i think is necessary. for the success of any campaign or information, we will need five elements. first, to use the internet and new technologies intensively. we can only dream of the obama campaign. i think they had usd 1.2 billion for their information campaign, but the way they used the internet proved to be decisive. therefore, we need to do that. second, we need to use audiovisual tools: 60% of citizens use mainly tv and radio for any information about what goes on at eu level. third, we need to engage with multipliers, such as civil society and local authorities’ different networks. therefore, we have other faces and other messengers about the added value of working together at european level. fourth, we need to cooperate with ‘ambassadors’, i.e. people who are willing to stand for the cause of democracy and who can reach out more than we, the politicians, can do. fifth, we need to reach young people and women, who tend to vote less and be less enthusiastic about the european union, which, not least, the referendums in ireland, and previously in france and the netherlands, showed us. these things are necessary. what about the money, then? what kind of budget do we have? we have been able to identify some eur 8.5 million in our budget for next year to cover centrally and decentrally managed actions that are linked to next year’s elections. our representations have been instructed to devote the bulk of their modest communication means to the ep elections and, in fact, out of the decentralised monies that they have, they have allocated 60% to this task. we also now have meetings at a technical level with your services in parliament to compare notes on the different activities in the different member states. this year we have activities aimed at the elections that represent around eur 6.2 million. we have projects targeting young people; we have special eurobarometers etc. there is also money for communication on structural funds, on agriculture and on research in each policy area, but we do not have any extra money or special money allocated to this. i have asked all my colleagues to integrate the elections in their communication plans. they will be reporting to me on how this is being done. next year’s budget has not yet been finalised, so there is still an opportunity to add extra money – but this is what we can identify today in the budget. so there is not an over-allocation of money, but we will have to use the already-existing channels. we will also help and assist the european parliament as much as we can with all our resources and through our normal activities, i.e. producing audiovisual material, video clips on eutube – all of the things that we do on a daily basis we will make sure are used to mobilise voters and to inspire good and lively discussion in the ep elections.
question no 36 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0809/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the information for european citizens on how to participate in european elections the international economic instability that has recently put international and european banking systems to the test has caused deep concern among ordinary european citizens who have not seen solutions proposed at eu level or seen evidence of european solidarity in this crucial circumstance. what measures and actions does the commission intend to propose to inform european citizens about european policies and solutions at eu or member state level in times of crisis and extraordinary political and economic circumstances? what plans do you have for pre-election information and mobilisation of europeans to participate in the european elections and also for adverse developments on issues of importance to the eu such as international economic and trade relations?
we note the commission's reply, but we have no prerogatives or powers to assess the scope of the reply on the merits.
i would like to inform you that questions nos 38 to 41 will be answered in writing.
vice-president of the commission. − i think that maybe the president forgot to give me a chance to reply to your specific questions. of course we are learning important lessons from what happened in the referendum, and i think you are right in pointing out that there should perhaps have been more visits on the ‘yes’ side. we followed the advice at the time and we fully respected the wish not to be seen as interfering with the debate in ireland, but maybe now the irish will want send out invitations much more widely. i have encouraged all my colleagues to go there and engage in a discussion with the irish. if they broadcast it on tv i am not sure it will always be that convincing, but we appreciate the media attention. we are working now with the irish government to conclude a memorandum of understanding, where we look at the things that have to be done, both in the short term and the longer term, in making sure we have better civic education, that we work with journalists, that we perhaps have a more emotional approach to some of these issues, yet at the same time respect the laws and rules that exist in ireland. we are learning lessons and i think we will very much follow your advice to go there and to respond to everything from agriculture to fisheries policy to trade etc. this is the way to meet the challenge. i hope that we will stimulate a good discussion. thank you for giving me this time.
question no 49 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0797/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the the accumulation of internal difficulties in some african countries and the expectations of emigration to europe have caused tens of thousands of citizens of sub-saharan africa to move to countries further north such as libya, morocco, mauritania and senegal. is the commission aware of this situation? if so, will it take measures to alleviate the plight of these african migrants and to relieve the pressure on the countries of north africa as a result of this anomalous demographic shift?
i think you're right, i take that into account, i have no choice at this point.
vice-president of the commission. − i am also learning all the time in this job. i am learning that similar projects – like the bamako project – are planned for other countries in western africa such as senegal. so apparently this is already on the agenda and the commission is fully engaged in developing similar projects in other countries.
question no 50 by mr luis yañez-barnuevo garcía (h-0799/08) subject: the commission has not yet decided whether to grant aid to the victims of the floods in the canary islands. opening of dialogue in cuba the council conclusions on cuba of 23 june 2008 were very well received by the island's democratic sectors, who appreciate that the unconditional release of all political prisoners is a key priority for the eu and that it is committed to promoting respect for human rights and real progress towards a pluralist democracy. in line with the commitments made in the conclusions, can the commission state whether its members have already established contacts with representatives of civil society and the democratic opposition? what practical steps are you taking to deepen the dialogue with these representatives? how does it ensure that actions for the benefit of civil society (such as micro-projects to promote social inclusion and cohesion) are not subject to intervention by official bodies?
vice-president of the commission. − i will of course convey to my colleague all parliament’s responses and reactions. i think he recently visited cuba, but of course, to date, we have not had the chance to develop this context. if i know him well enough, i think that this is definitely in his interests and that he will show openness and willingness to listen. this is, of course, part of what we have to do from now on. it is definitely in the commission’s interest as well.
i would point out that the honourable members who had put other questions are not present and that questions nos 51 to 58 will therefore be answered in writing.
mr posselt, we have already noted your arrival, albeit with a slight delay for which you are clearly not responsible, which is amply justified, and we thought, as the bureau, that we would follow the order with the next one, but we will do everything possible to recover your question in this part-session.
member of the commission. − the commission fully supports the analysis made by the honourable member in his oral question. we are the leader in green technology and we need to maintain and reinforce this position. this will also back the position of the eu in its leading role in the international fora for combating climate change. with the seventh framework programme for research and technological development, the european union is well equipped – and parliament played its full role in its outcome – to mobilise eu r&d funds in support of the development of new green technologies. the commission is putting a lot of effort into making the most of fp7. two of the joint technology initiatives adopted so far are fully dedicated to green technologies: ‘clean sky’, with a european contribution of eur 800 million; and ‘hydrogen and fuel cells’, with a contribution of eur 450 million from the european community. with the european strategic energy technology (set) plan, we are strongly endorsed by parliament and the council. the commission has initiated a process that will enhance the effectiveness of research & development spending in energy research. the set plan is committed to green technologies. it calls for the implementation of six new priority european industrial initiatives (industry-led programmes: wind, solar, ccs, grids, bioenergy and sustainable fission) and the establishment of the european energy research alliance (research-led programmes). the fp7 energy community programme is the main instrument available in the short term to support the implementation of these actions. but more than eu effort alone is certainly needed. therefore the community programme should be used to catalyse actions of member states and of course of the private sector. this requires a shift in the approach: rather than just cofinancing projects, steering and enabling the deployment of a joint effort through joint programming is truly needed. analysing the whole set of work programmes from the first three years of implementation of fp7, the commission estimates that 37% of the topics supported by r&d funding are for green technology. forty per cent of the budget committed after the 2007 calls, under the ‘cooperation’ specific programmes, also support green technology r&d. in order to be able to monitor the contribution of fp7 to sustainable development, in general, and to green technology, in particular, the commission is setting in place a monitoring system that should be operational in the first semester of next year. in its communication ‘from financial crisis to recovery: a european framework for action’, adopted on 29 october this year, the commission also emphasises the role of r&d investment and education as well as enhancing european competitiveness by continuing to green our economy. in more general terms it should be noted that, in addition to fp7 funds and activities, there is a wide range of policy initiatives and supporting programmes related to environmental technologies in the eu like the environmental technologies action plan, the competitiveness and innovation plan and more recently, the lead market initiative and action plan on sustainable production and consumption. the commission hopes that, with this element of response, the honourable member will be convinced that we are fully engaged in harnessing fp7 funds to really greening our research and our economies.
member of the commission. − the answer is certainly ‘yes’. we discussed only yesterday in the committee on industry, research and energy this specific activity which is devoted to marine and maritime matters. we want to make more progress in this area, because the situation is extremely complex. this whole area of oceans is extremely complex, but our life, the way we live, also influences the ecosystems there. it deserves special attention, and this attention should take the form of a new way of organising the system of research in this area: bringing marine and maritime researchers together, and also combining the efforts from the member states in a different way than is the case today. this is a new way of thinking, which could be named ‘pilot thinking’ in the context of joint programming, which is something which i mentioned before. certainly this will have our attention in the future also.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would therefore like to inform you that we will try to complete all the remaining questions, but i will be able to give the floor, after the commissioner has spoken, only to the member who has put the question, and we will not accept any further requests to speak because that would prevent the final result from being reached.
mr. doyle, i'm not changing the order, unfortunately there was an incident outside of mr. posselt's responsibility, because because there was a change of time for the commissioners, mr. posselt was 30 seconds late, so i'm going to take mr. posselt's question back and then immediately after that there will be ms. doyle's question.
member of the commission. − under the rules which we currently apply, this is ruled out. the rules which we are using certainly do not allow research where the purpose would be the cloning of people.
question no 45 by avril doyle (h-0827/08) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the european research council the european research council (erc) was officially launched on 27/28 february 2007 at an inaugural conference organised in berlin by the german eu presidency. one of its aims is to promote frontier research carried out entirely on the initiative of researchers, i.e. research carried out 'bottom-up'. can the commission clarify what is meant by frontier research on 'researcher initiative' or 'bottom-up'? what progress has been made in this area so far?
member of the commission. − here, i will be brief. the ‘investigator-driven’ approach followed by the european research council means that it supports projects at the frontiers of knowledge carried out by researchers on subjects of their choice, in any scientific field. so they have the freedom to choose. the european research council, by supporting ‘frontier research’, puts particular emphasis on interdisciplinary projects and on pioneering research. so far – and now i am talking about the progress – two calls for proposals have been implemented by the european research council, and europe’s research community has responded with huge enthusiasm. a massive 9 167 proposals were submitted by young researchers in response to the starting independent investigators grants call last year and more than 2 000 proposals were received for the advanced investigators grants call this year. this high level of participation demonstrates the appeal of the european research council and confirms that funding for frontier research on a bottom-up basis corresponds to an urgent need in europe. the commission is convinced that such investment in frontier research in the long term will substantially contribute to improving our knowledge-based society and also our innovation capacity in research.
member of the commission. − to be honest, this is quite a far-reaching question. we believe that it is important that we agree with the member states on ‘2020 vision’, because if we do then this would certainly reduce the length of further debates about what we want to do in europe. we should not repeat again and again where we are going: that is the whole idea. of course the debate is not starting now: the idea was launched with a green paper in 2000. i think it is great, especially for the new changed reality in which we live. the structure and governance of era are extremely important, and that is why we have to be patient. it is clear that we will not be successful if the member states are not in the driving seat. when we talk about the european research area and stimulating that, we do not talk predominantly about increasing funds at the european level, but rather about how we can all cooperate better – something that is inherently in the basics of the institutional framework of some of our major competitors, such as the usa, with which we want to compare ourselves. so we want to create a voluntary commitment of the member states through which we cooperate more and better than at present. concerning science policy methodologies, this is all part of the discussion which we are focusing on. i think that this question will certainly have to be addressed, but i cannot elaborate on that. i know that era’s approach is in essence one of the developments that europe most needs at this time.
question no 46 by gay mitchell (h-0833/08) subject: the commission has not yet decided whether to grant aid to the united kingdom for the construction of a new nuclear power station. ethical review of research funding under the seventh framework programme the rules on submission, evaluation, selection and award (com (2008) 4617) of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development (fp7 - 1982/2006/ec) had explicitly provided that research activities involving the destruction of embryos would not receive any funding. does the commission consider that the ethical review of the projects submitted has made it possible to implement this policy effectively?
member of the commission. − the ethical review of research funded under the seventh framework programme is a system that safeguards the protection of fundamental rights and respect for ethical principles. in the case of research involving the use of human embryonic stem cells, the procedure consists of five steps, including the scientific evaluation, the ethical screening and review, the national/local ethics committees’ approval for the proposed research and the submission of the proposals to a regulatory committee, so this relates to which project we decide on a single project basis. in july 2007, the european group on ethics also delivered an opinion to the commission on ethics reviews of seventh framework programme research projects using human embryonic stem cells. in following the above steps the commission considers that the established ethical review mechanism has been successful in implementing the relevant ec provisions. in particular, as all research activities that involve the destruction of human embryos are excluded from the scope of the community funding, no research proposals in this area have been funded under the seventh framework programme. the ethical review is meant to verify that no eu funding is granted to research activities involving the destruction of human embryos. in this sense, it is an integral part of the whole implementation of the framework programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of the opposite concern to mr mitchell that research on cell lines which have already been extracted is certainly allowed. the problem, in my view, is that there are so many obstacles that this type of research is being penalized for reasons which are supposed to be ethical but which are not.
mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president, whether you are aware that the commission has been asked to make a statement on the subject of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and whether you are aware that the commission has been asked to make a statement on the subject of the directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. i think we can all be satisfied and, thanking mr potočnik for his patience, we will give him the floor for his further reply, please.
member of the commission. − you have seen how difficult this debate is when we talk about ethical questions. that is exactly what europe is and how it looks. to be precise, human embryonic stem cells research is allowed under conditions which were agreed and voted in the european parliament and also in the council. we have had a very thorough and in-depth debate and the procedure which is used is – i can say – based on a really ethical approach. i have explained in the introduction which steps we have taken and how the decision is made. firstly, we need to have a scientific evaluation. then we have an ethical evaluation at european union level, then ethical evaluation at individual member state level. if any member state is against something being funded in their country, we do not fund it. then this project goes to the committee where the decision is taken by the member states on the individual project basis. when we do the scientific evaluation, the first question is: is it possible to attain this with any other kind of approach? and only if the answer is ‘no’ will we continue in the other direction. normally, there is an overwhelming majority of scientists who believe that the combination should be used. but if you look at the structure in our programmes, you would definitely find that the overwhelming majority of the programmes we finance are programmes which are connected with adult stem cell research. that is quite clear. so we try to follow the rules which were voted and agreed here and which we believe that, in practice are working.
mr. burke, i understand your frustration, but the time block for each block of questions tonight has been met. unfortunately, when questions are blocked and cannot be answered, it is not the presidency's fault, but a coincidence which i cannot remedy. the only opportunity i had was, of course, as you can see, to extend the time for the last block by a few minutes, taking advantage of the commission's availability and courtesy. but no time was taken from the other blocks.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the world population has doubled in a few decades with devastating consequences for the planet, and so the fact that the european trend is at least partly different is a positive fact. there are problems in social security, of course, but the answer is not to encourage more children, but rather to raise the retirement age, to eliminate discrimination against the elderly in countries like italy where the disincentives to work beyond retirement age are so high that retirement becomes an obligation rather than a right. on the global level, i call on the presidency in particular to work towards the convening of the new united nations conference on population, which has been stalled for years now because of pressure from states such as the vatican and those who fear responsible policies on sexuality and family planning.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the fight against aids, but that it should be involved in the fight against aids. the situation from a clinical point of view is very clear: we have about 30 antiretroviral drugs that are able to prolong the lives of people with hiv. we don't have any drug that can destroy the virus, so as a result, in the west and in europe, we have a decrease in mortality and an increase in living hiv-positive people, what we technically call "potential carriers". this means that we are at greater risk of coming into contact with people with hiv today than in the past, because the number of people living with hiv is increasing. and in the midst of all this, what do you do? i'm not worried. most european countries have not had a stable prevention campaign for years. condoms cost a fortune, and we give words a precise, recognizable name: contraceptives are very expensive and are one of the main ways to prevent hiv. not to mention harm reduction projects aimed primarily at drug addicts to prevent the promiscuous use of syringes. how many countries are carrying out such projects at national level? in italy, 50% of the publicly announced aids diagnoses coincide with hiv diagnoses, meaning that many people don't know they are hiv positive until they are sick. what are the dissemination campaigns for the test, which must be free and anonymous? because we know that if there's discrimination, people will try to hide, they won't go to the test, and that puts their health and the health of others at risk. one last thing: the council has again spoken today about aid to the south, and i would like to know what has become of the proposals made by parliament when we voted on the latest version of the trips agreement, which committed the commission and the council to increase the appropriations for the fight against aids in the south and in particular to transfer technology and also to transfer pharmaceutical aid.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the apiculture sector is not only a productive activity with millennia of history in our agricultural activity, but it is currently one of the systems indispensable to maintain the level of productivity of tree and herbaceous crops, thanks to cross-pollination. i would remind you that 80% of the crops are produced by the work of the bees, which also ensures genetic variation in the breeding species. at present it is clear that the apiculture sector and its activities are irreplaceable and represent the only solution for maintaining the biodiversity target. the products of the herring industry are increasingly being forced to compete on the world market in conditions of opaque competition and because of the massive importation of products from outside the community, even those whose quality is not always guaranteed, even though pesticides are banned in europe and are used there. this requires labelling and indication of the origin of the product. i also think it is important to highlight the serious consequences of the varroa disease which has decimated over 50% of europe's bee heritage. i ask the european commission to make further efforts in the field of scientific research to remedy this serious disease by prohibiting any kind of plant protection treatment during the flowering period.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the review of recommendation 2001/331/ec laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0085/2008 - b6-0479/2008).
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 108 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. in anticipation of the vote and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is an agreement between the groups to delete the word 'special' when we talk about european special forces. so , what ? "delete the word 'special'".
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i give my favourable vote to mrs gräßle's report on the investigations carried out by the office for the fight against fraud (olaf). it is of the utmost importance to amend the regulation on these investigations, since some interinstitutional relations need to be revised. in addition, the regulation should be amended as regards the rights of persons involved in investigations and the exchange of information between olaf, the european institutions, the member states and whistleblowers. finally, i welcome the initiative of my colleague, who has made some further interesting suggestions, for example on the new role of the director-general of the office, who should have the power to initiate external investigations, not only at the request of a member state or the commission, but also at the request of the european parliament.
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. the core of this discussion is not just the specific issue addressed by the committee on petitions, in relation to the spread of the german language in relation to its use by the community institutions. the main problem is the general problem of access to documents by citizens of all nationalities and, consequently, the transparency of the community institutions. i therefore believe it is absolutely important that the council should carry out a thorough investigation in order to encourage the extension of the languages used on the websites of the presidencies. this extension can be made gradually, on the basis of appropriate and objective criteria to be defined, bearing in mind, however, that the more languages are used, the greater the number of citizens who can come closer to europe. citizens must look at the european institutions as they look at the buildings that house us: our institutions have to be accessible.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the excellent work done by mrs stauner on the future of social security and pension schemes and i support her by voting in favour of it. i share the basic reasoning behind the report and believe that the problems raised must be addressed as quickly as possible by the union together with the member states. europe is an ageing continent whose average birth rate is below the natural rate of population replacement. in less than 50 years, europe's population will be smaller and older. immigration is not going to be the answer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the european social fund, such as the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the creation of a european network of social partners, the development of a european network of social partners, the establishment of a european network of social partners, the european social dialogue, the european social dialogue, the european social dialogue, the european social dialogue, the european social dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european dialogue, the european union, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future
in writing. - thank you, mr president. my vote is in favour. it is an extremely important measure. the introduction of new rights for highly qualified workers from third countries represents an opportunity both for migrants and for host countries. it is essential that this should be done within a framework of common criteria for all eu countries, in order to avoid disparities and also to increase the attractiveness of europe, which is still far from the percentages of the united states and canada. in this framework of common rules we are about to vote on, i wholeheartedly support the amendments of the socialist party. the minimum wage, which should not be lower than that of a worker in the host country, is an essential guarantee of equality for us. we also support the extension of the blue card to those already residing in the member states and the extension of the extension to six months in the event of job loss. finally, we must cooperate with third countries to support the training of highly qualified personnel in the key sectors affected by brain drain. the adoption of this measure will also encourage legal immigration and make the eu richer in skills and human experience, in the spirit of exchange which has always been the very essence of the european spirit.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against the report by mrs klamt on the conditions of entry and residence of thirdcountry nationals wishing to work in highly skilled jobs. the so-called 'blue card', a poor copy of the american 'green card', would only worsen the situation of the european social system and the precarious conditions of work and unemployment in which our 'brains' are being tipped. i am firmly opposed to this proposal which would lead our highly qualified workers to compete with non-europeans, and probably to be at a disadvantage, and to contribute to the draining of the capacities and potential of the third countries themselves, encouraging the same 'brain drain' which we are trying to combat in europe today.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs in 't veld on behalf of the libe committee on the proposal for a council framework decision on the use of pnr data in law enforcement. i fully share the aim and the concerns raised by my colleague, both as regards the proportionality of the measures proposed by the commission and as regards the legal basis for such a measure and the dangers, which i have raised several times during the libe meetings, to the protection of personal data. the need to ensure a high level of security for citizens is sacrosanct and i think that there are not a few systems in place today. i believe that before introducing further measures it is necessary to assess the full and systematic implementation of the existing mechanisms, in order to avoid the risk of creating more problems than those which are intended to be fought.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, but i would have preferred that the text had been adopted with amendment no 1, paragraph 19, which was unfortunately rejected by a small majority. this amendment would have made our practical commitment in this very delicate and crucial area even more valid. i hope, however, that the adoption of this resolution will be followed by concrete action by the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the need to implement the convention on cluster munitions by the end of 2008. this proposal, which i fully support, will prohibit the use, production, storage and transfer of cluster munitions as a whole category of weapons. i also welcome the fact that it will be mandatory for eu member states which have used cluster munitions to provide technical and financial assistance for the purpose of disposing of and destroying cluster munition residues. finally, i welcome the initiative of my colleagues, which calls on all member states not to use, invest, stockpile, produce, transfer or export cluster munitions, irrespective of whether or not they have implemented the convention.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote is in favour. early diagnosis and research are unshakable cornerstones of health protection. in the case of hiv, the results of recent years demonstrate the importance of encouraging research. in this connection, we must remove all obstacles to the experimentation which, for people living with hiv, represents the real hope of a more satisfactory quality of life. this need must be supported in concrete terms by the commission's use of political, economic and financial resources. at the same time, the council and the commission must ensure that discrimination against people living with hiv is made illegal in all eu member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the early diagnosis and early treatment of hiv. the commission has an obligation, in order to ensure the protection and health of european citizens, to promote early diagnosis and reduce the obstacles to testing for this disease, as well as to ensure timely treatment by disseminating the benefits. in fact, considering that the eurohiv and unaids reports confirm that the number of new hiv cases is increasing at an alarming rate within the european union as well as in neighbouring countries and that in some countries the estimated number of people infected with hiv is almost three times higher than the official figures, i welcome the proposal, which also calls on the commission to launch an hiv/aids reduction strategy focusing on drug addicts and intravenous drug users.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the palestinian al-kurd family was evicted from their home in sheikh jarah in east jerusalem by israeli police in the middle of the night on 9 november. mother, a half-paralyzed father with a heart condition and 5 children, a family displaced from their land since 1948, driven from a house in west jerusalem, along with thousands and thousands of other palestinians. today, once again, they are homeless, a house they bought and where they have lived since 1956. a group of extremist settlers - not poor jews who escaped the immense tragedy of the holocaust, but fundamentalists who consider that land to be theirs by divine right - claim ownership of that house and 26 other homes in the same neighborhood, based, as matsakis said, on an ottoman code dating from the nineteenth century of unquestionable authenticity, which is disputed even by the us authorities. but there's a plan. an israeli association wants to build 200 houses on the remains of the homes of the palestinians who will be expelled. just last week, with the european parliament delegation to the occupied palestinian territories, made up of parliamentarians from all political groups, we visited the al-kurd family in their home, we were firsthand witnesses to the abuse and violence they suffered on a daily basis by the settlers who were already living in some of those homes. now they are homeless and in our resolution we call for paragraph 4, and i regret that the epp, which represents the compromise and voted for that paragraph - it calls for the return of the house to the al-kurd family - is today declaring a split vote because in the compromise everyone was in agreement. but today, in addition to being homeless, i am also tentless, because twice the tent, built inside the courtyard of a palestinian-owned house, was destroyed by israeli bulldozers. another 500 families in sheikh jarah will suffer this if we do not intervene very strongly on these constantly recognized illegalities of continuous demolitions. i believe, as mr de keyser said, that the policy towards east jerusalem is a colonial policy of israel which is not recognised by the international community. but i think it is time that we said with great certainty not just 'please respect international law' but that we took concrete action to prevent these actions from continuing to destroy the peace between palestinians and israelis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that it is very sad that compromises are made and then not respected, and it is very sad that people do not think that the al-kurd family is not a name but that they are people who are forced to live - i say this to mrs casaca - who are forced to live even in a tent, because they were not allowed to stay in a tent either. it's really sad that you don't think about this piece of humanity and you only think about politics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we are discussing is like a tsunami: it's serious and shocking. so far, it has brought down financial markets and undermined the foundations of the real economy. the provision for the total of eur 200 billion, which has been agreed by the eu leaders, seems, in my humble opinion, to be completely inadequate. this is less than the loss of european stock exchanges on any one of the many days when they closed in a conspicuously negative direction. we need more courage, more audacity, more europe. i propose, with the agreement of my group - and president barroso has been directly instructed to do so - that the member states should draw on their own reserves, in return for which they should have a european security to be traded on the markets, with the obligation to invest the same amount in infrastructure and in policies to support the social disadvantaged and the productive system. these securities, anchored to the value of the national reserves, should generate confidence and provide the necessary liquidity - 2 to 5 points of gdp - for policies that we all agree are needed. all this outside maastricht and with a special plan for re-entry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis is certainly unprecedented. but in my view it could and should have been foreseen and avoided. the economic crisis, president barroso said earlier, was 'sudden, unexpected'. i would like to disagree, mr barroso. the economic crisis was sudden, but the signs were all there, starting with the international monetary fund in the spring of 2007. but today the language of the council representative and the language of president barroso is more appropriate and, in my humble opinion, fully aware of the gravity of the situation. i agree with mr karas: the european citizens are watching us and we must act. the european plan which you have drawn up, commissioner, of 200 billion - i must say - is not enough. we need to be clear: maybe that's what you could do, but it's not enough. i believe that you must take up the problem of having additional and autonomous resources, resorting at this exceptional time to direct borrowing on the market. and let us talk for a moment about the european central bank. it is very embarrassing to talk about this institution, we are far from this reasoning. i believe that tomorrow the european central bank will have to reduce the discount rate by one point; if it does so by half a point, it will once again disappoint the markets. price stability - you said the commission and all - is its task: but i guess this result can also be achieved by not following the rate maneuver to the inflation index. sometimes, you have to be more flexible and anticipate the manoeuvre. i agree with president barroso on the rigidity of spending: the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
we welcome the students of the european university of rome in the stands. the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the council and the commission on the future global architecture of financial markets and the economic recovery plan for the european union (o-0124/2008 - b6-0487/2008) and (o-0125/2008 - b6-0488/2008).
we welcome back the council representative, mr novelli, who was our colleague from 1999 to 2002, if i remember correctly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is sending a first message to the citizens and to the markets by preparing a plan to rescue and revive the european economy. there is great expectation and we cannot betray expectations. at a time when financial consolidation and the level of public debt are likely to be adversely affected by public interventions, both those actually granted and those guaranteed, to rescue large financial and industrial players, with clear consequences for public finances and personal income, a coordinated approach is needed at european level, including to combat tax evasion and tax havens. it is important that all the national appropriations and plans are effectively and closely coordinated and directed in the same direction. i am pleased to note that the intention is to clarify the flexible application of the stability pact, which must be targeted, temporary and appropriate, with mechanisms aimed at structural change, efficient allocation of public resources, the re-qualification of public spending and investment for growth, in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy and with particular attention to the role of small and medium-sized enterprises. the common approach must cover macroeconomic budgetary policies as well as wage policies and a progressive and decisive reduction in the tax burden on labour and pensions. this will have to be done through tax deductions, rate revisions, tax relief returns so as to reduce poverty, and not just extreme poverty, to promote consumption and economic growth, responding in an anti-cyclical way to the current economic crisis that is leading to recession. but beware: supporting incomes and raising consumer questions must be done with a real focus on environmental and social sustainability, avoiding uncritically reproducing models and systems that have proven to be weak.
i apologize to mr gollnisch and mr siekierski, who asked to speak, but we are unfortunately very late and will therefore be making five speeches.
thank you, commissioner, especially for the move from mathematics to theology. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the council and the commission on the european roma strategy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the commission's approach to roma. i share the pragmatic approach, free from political and ideological overtones, an approach - i quote president barroso's words at the brussels summit on 16 september - 'which wants everyone to be accountable, no one excluded, from the roma people to the public authorities, with the european commission at the forefront'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. good practice should be coordinated and the use of funds monitored regularly: how many resources have been wasted in the last few years, how many opportunities have been lost? the budget is unfortunately a failure, and that is true, subject to the necessary exceptions. too many unused funds, too many funds wasted on measures, on projects that have produced no results. if we're being serious, we can't pretend this didn't happen. on this we can truly say "he that is without sin let him cast the first stone". the commission has produced a document which will be useful to the member states: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. education, vaccination and healthcare, and vocational training and job creation, including through microcredit interventions. but we ask the roma people to take responsibility. just to give you an example: we cannot tolerate any more, in any way, those roma parents who force their children to beg, depriving them of school activities. under no circumstances can forms of exploitation and illegality be tolerated. only by combining solidarity, integration and respect for the rules can the right strategy be found to solve the problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the resolution adopted by this parliament, we went to visit the roma camps directly and were able to see for ourselves how they were received, how they lived, and we visited the roma camps and were able to discover that the roma really do need special protection, also because after the enlargement of the union, they have become one of the most important minorities in the european union. we need to ensure that this minority is recognised as a genuine european minority. the efforts made in recent years have been dispersed, not coordinated by the european union, much money has been wasted and no lasting structural improvements have been made in the situation of the roma, particularly in areas such as education, housing and employment. we see daily racial discrimination, both at the local level and in programmes that are not adapted to integration, and we also see continuous discrimination by the police or racial characterization by governments, who think to file roma through fingerprints or other forms of filing. there is a real criminalization of the roma community in europe and we see daily statements from politicians who are moving in this direction, whether they are on the right or the left. i hope that mr angelilli will be able to convince the leader of his party and the president of the italian chamber that the roma can be integrated, contrary to what he has publicly stated.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be allowed to vote on the report, but i am saying that it should be allowed to vote on the report. israel cannot always be outside the respect of international law. i would like to say to mrs hybášková that cooperation with israel and the projects have not stopped here. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. but i say again: israel must understand that it must respect international law. it is also a question of our honour and dignity. i hope therefore that the council of ministers will listen to the european parliament and for once be consistent in telling israel that it must give concrete signs of wanting peace and unblock the settlements in the west bank and the living conditions of the people of gaza. our european union projects are stalled: pegasus in gaza is no longer working, it is blocked by the blockades that prevent goods from entering; tomorrow they won 't be able to pay their salaries . unrra is forced to stop aid to the poorest families. it's a shame this is happening. so, nothing against israel: no, not at all! to be friends with israel means and does mean to confront it with its responsibilities and ours. so, i hope we can pick up but the message we gave today is important: we gave it to the palestinians and we gave it to all those israelis who believe deeply in peace, but in peace with justice in law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president morgantini, i do not agree with you this time because i think that parliament has not made a good impression today by referring the de keyser report back to committee - and allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to do so with a startling speed of convoking and therefore voting - and by referring it back to committee. in this way, i believe, the left has a little pretentiously blocked israel's access to the partnership programme for innovation and research - i want to emphasize this - to one of the few states, if not the only one, to which giving support means not only solidarity but also growth and development for european companies. no one has ever been able to ask the palestinian authority how much and how it uses the support of the arab league, or how much of it contributes to dialogue, mutual understanding, cultural and scientific development. i must say that, given the lack of mobilization of too many of my colleagues on the centre-right, the left has had a good run, under the pretext of defending human rights, of winning the vote. but i have the impression that all this is an obstacle to regional development and perhaps to the peace process itself, also because it calls into question the right of a state to its security, a right which we should protect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur who has preceded me has explained very well the subject of the package which we have decided to suspend this morning by voting. but i would like to remind you that there are other aspects of this report, and above all the political aspects, which are under consideration by the council in this development of relations between the european union and israel. then there are those concerning the internal market: so i think we are all in principle in favour of this development of relations between israel and the european union, just as we are in favour of the development of relations with the palestinian authority. however, this relationship must involve clarity and commitments on both sides. today, we cannot say that these criteria are met: i am not only reminded of the tragic situation in gaza, but also of the continuing illegal settlements in the territories, the question of the marketing of products from the occupied territories and things we know very well. i think that the council should make its position clear, because it seems to me that the french presidency has undertaken to present a document on the prospects for peace in the middle east at the next council meeting, which may be of great interest to us, also in terms of the possibility of developing a constructive relationship. that is why i think it was wise to postpone this, provided that we all manage to use this time to alleviate the suffering of the palestinian population, especially in gaza, and, i would say, to rebuild a relationship between europe and the united states, in the context of a joint initiative to resolve the situation in the middle east. don't forget that 2008 was declared would be the year of the establishment of the palestinian state. 2008 is over and the situation is still terrible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the terrorist events that have taken place since 2001 - the recent events in india - and the various conflicts in many parts of the world make this issue, the issue of the arms trade, particularly important for the present and the future in a broad sense. often, too often, the great intentions expressed in declarations of principle are not put into practice. it is clear that this is a sensitive subject, involving important industrial and commercial processes, and it is therefore understandable that it is difficult for all the member states, especially the member states, to ratify a system of control and regulation. however, the acceleration of events and the awareness that illegal internal and external arms trafficking exists, makes it urgent to regulate this sector in a legally effective way. the directive on the intra-community transfer of defence-related goods, which is currently being drafted, will also make real sense if the code of conduct is ratified quickly. i am sorry that the president-in-office of the council has left, but after what he said - and i am therefore ignoring some other points i had prepared - everything seems to be in order. actually, i don't think that's the case at all. so i believe that the commitment made by the minister here tonight, like many other commitments made by many others in other circumstances, can be translated, in this last glimpse of the french presidency, into a profound stimulus, also next week, for the code of conduct to be ratified by at least all the member states. it would be remarkable if france did that, besides declaring it here in the house and then perhaps not having any concrete results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the authorities of the tibetan government in exile have made public the memorandum, the document, the proposals for genuine autonomy for tibet, which they had submitted to the chinese authorities during the negotiations. it is proven proof - if there was any need - that the chinese authorities lied and continue to lie, when they claim that the real goal of the dalai lama and the tibetan authorities is independence. the dalai lama will be a guest, he will speak in this parliament tomorrow: thirty-five colleagues, as of midnight shortly thereafter are beginning a 24-hour hunger strike, a fast in support of the dalai lama and his holiness has informed us today that he himself will participate in this fast. i think that at this point the most concrete way for the presidency of parliament to support and lead is to...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should be more aware these days that when we talk about tibet and the dalai lama, we are talking about ourselves. a few days ago, at the mere announcement that the president of the european council, that president sarkozy had dared to meet the dalai lama in poland, we were treated without even being given eight days, fired, no meeting. the great europe is permitting itself to welcome or speak, to accept, to listen to the dalai lama, why is that, mr president? i think it's clear, we know that the european people, if they were asked as european people, 80% would be in favour of the dalai lama... (the president cut off the speaker)
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i shall use less time because the subject is well known. we are talking about the pre-registration of substances, a preliminary step, the first step in implementing reach, which is very important because it gives companies the opportunity to acquire the right to interpret a transitional regime, that is to say to use the staggering of the time required for the registration of substances, a more demanding procedure, and also - and above all - even more important - to be able to give rise to the formation of those consortia of companies for the sharing of data, that is to say for a presentation made in an associated way by the producers of the same substance. so, we all know, we have been reached by information, about the fact that, compared to the initial forecasts on which the reach system was built, in fact, the pre-registrations that have been made have been much, much more numerous than expected. we were talking about a few hundred thousand - the commissioner will certainly inform us of the exact figures - but we have probably exceeded the one million pre-registered substances. and that's a problem, it's a fact that raises a lot of questions also about the causes of this explosion, say, of the phenomenon, which could also be positive. we know, above all, that this flood of data, although still preliminary and essential, has put a strain on the ability of the newly established agency for chemicals in helsinki to handle it. so the point of our question is exactly this: we want to know how these difficulties have been dealt with, how they have been organised, whether there have been any problems with the companies which were very anxious about the possibility of keeping the deadline. at 24.00 on 1 december the deadline for the submission of these pre-registrations expired.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i should like to thank mr sacconi and the other speakers for their question, which gives me the opportunity to inform the european parliament of the truly astonishing results of the pre-registration procedure under reach. pre-registration of chemicals already on the eu market is the first step under reach. it is the prerequisite for extended registration periods for the companies, which will then run until 2018. the pre-registration period laid down in the reach regulation started on 1 june 2008 and ended on 1 december 2008, i.e. six months later. when we adopted the regulation, we assumed that we would have to register some 200 000 chemical substances. in fact, exactly 2 236 625 registrations were received by the end of the pre-registration period. several thousand single applications are currently being processed and this number can be considerably increased. the final figure will be announced by the agency in mid-december. we have also asked ourselves, of course, how it is possible that the estimates which underlie our legislation have been exceeded by a factor of ten. the simple answer is: the very reason reach was made is because we just didn't know - because nobody knew exactly - how many substances we actually have. it appears that the scale of the task was underestimated by all involved. the estimates have been made using all available data from member states and industry. they have, of course, led initially to problems when it turned out that the working hypothesis was wrong. it was inevitable. under the reach regulation, the helsinki agency was responsible for defining the format for pre-registration and making it freely available on its website. in time, starting on 1 june this year, companies had access to the reach it system and the corresponding format for the pre-registration of the respective substances. during october and november, companies informed the commission that the reach it system operated by the agency was working with reduced power or at certain times not working at all. the commission has therefore followed the work of the agency very closely and has discussed software improvements and even a contingency plan with the agency. the agency worked intensively throughout the pre-registration period to improve the performance and effectiveness of the it system. in view of the rapid increase in pre-registration numbers over the last few weeks - up to a maximum of 100 000 pre-registrations in a single day - the agency has taken additional technical measures and increased capacity. these changes have improved the availability and speed of the system. however, delayed response during peak access times could not be completely avoided due to the enormous number of simultaneous calls. in fact, and this raises some questions, almost half of all pre-registration applications were submitted within the last two weeks of the pre-registration period, i.e. over one million in the last two weeks. for this reason, the agency recommended that in case of difficulties, pre-registration should be carried out outside peak times. in addition, companies were advised to use the format for group pre-registration, which is the fastest way. in the final stage of pre-registration, the agency has set up an additional quick-response telephone service to help with any problems. this action has continuously improved the response time in the reach it system despite the high number of pre-registration requests. finally, the prepared substitution procedure was used only on the very last day before registration and proved to be only limitedly necessary, since the reach it system had functioned sufficiently until then. i assume that despite the difficulties encountered, all the companies concerned were able to pre-register their substances and that the first phase of reach implementation was successfully completed.
author of the book. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner because i found his answers very convincing. i particularly agree with the fact that, as he said, there is also an important element to be found in this explosion of pre-recordings. we had problems because reach worked too well and it brought out, that is, a reality of unknown substances coming to the surface. i can ask a question which may be premature, since it is not yet possible to have the data and an assessment on the subject: we always thought that the system would have roughly understood something like 30,000 substances. in the light of the pre-registration, are you able today, or perhaps in the near future, to quantify how many substances will actually enter the system through the pre-registration? this is because we are also facing very significant growth here, which should obviously make us reflect on how the next steps will work.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new 20 x 20 x 20 formula used to summarise europe's objectives to tackle climate change expresses an ambitious commitment that would put europe in a position of absolute leadership in this global battle. in all honesty, i think it is appropriate to highlight the contrast between the universality of this target and the one-sided approach of european constraints. in my view, we must have the courage to admit that our test of virtuosity could prove both environmentally useless and disastrous for our industry if it is not taken into account in the multilateral negotiations. it is obvious that we all share the goal of protecting the environment: but to do that, we need to find tools that are more effective and more widely shared. these two conditions must necessarily be cumulative, and one without the other renders all efforts futile and may even have irreparable consequences for our industry. we cannot therefore disregard a cost-benefit analysis. i would stress that such an approach is not in any way a reflection on or a questioning of the importance of protecting the planet. i simply believe that the instruments which make up the energy and climate package, first and foremost the revision of the ets directive, must also be carefully assessed in terms of the economic or bureaucratic burdens on our companies and public budgets, as well as in terms of the competitiveness of european production, with particular attention to small and medium-sized producers. this line of reasoning is all the more valid at the present time, when the world economy is being held hostage by a negative economic situation and which requires a new analysis of the approach to the package: i am referring to the revision of the criteria for calculating the national targets. first of all, i would like to mention the importance of making the best use of the so-called flexibility mechanisms, and only then can we hope to remain competitive on a world scale. i would like to conclude by reiterating that it is more necessary than ever to avoid instrumental conflicts between the defenders of industry and the defenders of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. among these is the italian government, which has presented cost estimates of almost double that, but without any convincing evidence. however, such positions underestimate the future price of fossil fuels and ignore the huge benefits of the rapid spread of renewable energy: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures, such as security of supply, but above all the creation of new jobs, at a time of recession when thousands of workers are being thrown out of the productive processes. increased energy efficiency and the widespread use of renewable sources are the recipe for overcoming the economic crisis. concentrating a large part of public funds to save the banks means reproposing the same economic model, all based on finance, that created the crisis we are trying to fight. we cannot deal with the economic situation without a change of strategy. the eu directive is about innovation and above all about tackling the disruption caused by climate change in time. this is a problem which will increasingly weigh on the lives of european citizens and on the economies of the member states. that is why public investment must not, once again, go to support traditional sectors but must concentrate on activities that bring innovation in the energy and environmental fields. key factors for the growth of the renewable energy sector are the development of distribution networks and priority access to these networks. between the 1960s and 1980s, the enormous expenditure on network infrastructure for large centralised systems was supported by large public investments. this must also be the case if we are to secure the future of the renewable energy system. renewable energy generation plants must therefore be operated using new technologies: that is why we need investment, research and technology development. the urgency of approving this package at first reading at the december plenary session, as the european citizens expect, remains. we cannot allow the shortsightedness of certain states' interests and of certain economic interests to block this process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a brief report a few days ago, the ipcc, the un panel of scientists fighting climate change, said that co2 emissions have started to accelerate more than expected. we must therefore also speed up our decisions and make sure that they are appropriate. parliament has worked with intelligence, competence and, i would say, even passion, and has already approved important texts in its committee on the environment. we expect the commission - and i have no doubt because i appreciate the work of commissioner dimas - and the council to recognise the value of this work. we are co-decision: the time has therefore been set and it must be approved by the next strasbourg session. we must not weaken the commitments, while maintaining the fundamental points of parliament, such as the actual nature of the reductions, the automatic transition from 20% to 30%, the creation of a fund for adaptation and the transfer of technology to third countries. europe must play a decisive role in poznan, knowing that it is in europe's own interest for china and the united states to sign the post-kyoto agreement. i am deeply sorry, as an italian, that the government of my country and its confindustria have taken such a reactionary and harmful position, first of all for my own country. to say that the economic crisis makes climate action impossible is nonsense. on the contrary, it is precisely the fight against climate change that must be the reference point for an industrial conversion to a green economy, which must be the focal point of the intervention in this dramatic crisis. the environment is not a problem for the economy but it is the key to the solution, together with a different social approach to a crisis that is born precisely from a sick economy that is bad for the environment and for work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues, starting with my president, mr martin schulz, who rightly highlighted the result achieved last monday with the agreement on the regulation imposing an obligation to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles. i want to explain here why, deliberately and in agreement with the french presidency, which has worked very well - i mean informally - why i have, to stay on the subject, accelerated the implementation of this agreement - i have given a boost, so to speak. for two reasons: the first one was because i thought it was important to unlock the package, at least for a dossier, to show that it is really possible - it is difficult but it is possible - to reconcile different needs: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, and the economic dimension of competitiveness and employment. we know how much the automobile industry is in crisis today, and to have done this at this time is a very important signal. but there's another reason i gave it a shot. i thought it would be much better to close this dossier before the european council next week, because - if i may put it in a somewhat strong way - no one would be looking. no head of state or government can touch that regulation. i say this to colleagues like davies, who criticise this agreement, who have not understood that it would have been better for other dossiers, such as yours, where there are already conditions for closure and for closure to have been made earlier. and i'll tell you one thing, though, mr. secretary. half a second to me, you have to leave him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for organising this debate, which was absolutely necessary for us, who are in poznań at the same time, at the same time, and at the european environment council, and next monday at the energy council, before the council of heads of state and government of 11 and 12. it was important that each and every one of them could express their views on one of the most difficult issues we have to deal with, since it is a question of fundamentally changing a number of elements of our economic and social policies, since energy is present in all this, with its moral dimension, its ethical dimension, its nature-related dimension, this respect for nature and, of course, climate change. i would just like to say on a first point to those who have expressed doubts about climate change that in any case the need for the eventual detoxification of oil would in itself make the whole of this directive absolutely necessary. whether it is for reasons of climate change or for reasons of changing the energy mix and their territorialisation, the package is globally relevant in both cases. my second message, if i may, is to the commission, which has done extremely thorough, extremely important preliminary work. the objectives proposed by the committees, supported by the european councils under the german presidency, are there, they are the right ones, i believe they are validated by all, and this considerable effort of conceptualization to make things seem so different, sometimes seemingly incompatible, is quite remarkable. i think there is general agreement between the institutions on this point. the question is how. and i would like to reiterate that the confidence pact concluded with parliament in the framework of the trilogues, and i am well aware of the difficulty of the parliamentarian's report and the trilogues, is obvious to everyone, but the need for our international commitments, our international meetings, is extremely important. copenhagen is probably the greatest date mankind will ever have with itself. it is impossible not to show that europe is capable of reaching an agreement on these points. so, of course, we have the various difficulties on competitiveness. yes, mr president watson, mr hoppenstedt, mr davies, the funding of capture and seizure, of course, has to be included, in one form or another, now or a little later, it's a modality, it's obvious. in the same way it would be irresponsible to support carbon leakage and i think we are coming up with solutions that are, at the end of the day, quite reasonable. what i really want to say to you in essence is that there always comes a time in life when you are more concerned with the modality of the modality than with the goal and how to achieve it. the modalities may change without the objective and the guarantee of achieving it. there is a logic of copyright in the procedures, it is true of the commission, as it is true of the rapporteurs of the various committees of parliament. the only thing that really concerns us is that we have the public financial means to achieve the short, medium and longterm objectives we have set ourselves. finally, on the last point, i shall scrupulously echo what has been said in this indispensable chamber. there is no democratic denial, there is an acceleration of the whole process. i can tell you that the european parliamentarians, up to two hours last night, and this morning, were working, and came to an agreement on the car co2 - let's talk about the car co2 -. we can discuss the first three years, but we can also discuss the 95 gramme target, which is the most fundamental phenomenon for the evolution of our industry. on all our points there may be debate on how to return to progressiveness. the only question that matters to us is not to penalize, to allow for competitiveness and to have the guarantee of achieving each of these objectives, because they work together and they are all absolutely solidary. that is what i wanted to say in summary, knowing that i have taken each and every one of the speeches and believe me, i will pass them on to the council of ministers and the council of 11. anyway, let me thank you very much.
member of the commission. − madam president, today’s debate has mostly concentrated on the challenge of climate change. it is true that it is a huge challenge, but the same is also true of the energy challenge that we are facing. we have seen the recent volatility of prices, bringing challenges for the security of supply that is particularly important for the european union, where energy import dependence is growing. this package also provides a basis for the solution to energy security, not only for the european union but also for other parts of the world. if we make the technological change, it will provide for very different and secure energy sources that could be used across the world. i believe that today’s debate has been very positive and has clearly demonstrated parliament’s commitment to finding solutions very rapidly. i am very grateful for this. the commission, from my side and that of my colleagues, will work very hard to facilitate agreement between the parliament and the council this december.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to thank the members of the european parliament who took part in today's debate for their very constructive positions. i would also like to thank the french presidency for working tirelessly with the european parliament and the commission to find solutions which are compatible with the environmental objectives we have set ourselves and with various other situations and problems facing member states or various sectors of european industry and business. the council and the european parliament have shown their willingness to reach an agreement at first reading, and i think that by the next plenary session of the european parliament in two weeks' time the various outstanding cases will have been resolved in the right way and we will have an agreement which will achieve the environmental objectives, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, which is necessary for the european union to contribute to the proper fight against climate change, but will also not allow other problems to be created, such as for example the relocation of companies to countries outside the european union where they would continue to emit carbon dioxide without restrictions. so we must take all the necessary measures. the commission proposal was aimed at this, and so is the cooperation which we now have between the three institutions to find the right solutions. i am sure that in two weeks' time in plenary we will have an agreement.
in writing. protecting the environment and combating climate change are key priorities for the entire international community. as i have always argued in recent years, the progress of research allows us to develop objective reasoning, even in relation to energy sources which are too often demonized. in the light of current technological advances, in order to promote a process of geopolitical stabilization and to ensure greater international security, energy sources must be diversified, reducing dependence on supplies. in this context, and after overcoming certain backward positions such as that of italy, i think it would be good to start a serious debate on nuclear energy production, with specific reference to third generation plants.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr martin on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and korea on cooperation in anti-competitive activities. i share the reasoning behind the report and believe that the competition agreement is more necessary than ever in the present context where trade, especially with asian countries, is becoming more substantial and relevant. given the differences between the european economic system and that of the countries with which it has trade relations, including korea, and, specifically, the differences between production costs and internal consumer protection regulations in those countries, an agreement between competition authorities is a step towards protecting our companies and products from the dangers of today's globalised environment.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of course. as the report also points out, the commission took a courageous decision when it proposed to allocate €1 billion to the food crisis and i believe that both the commission and the council should be given the fullest possible cooperation in adopting this important legislation. the fight against the food crisis requires concrete efforts on many levels and the joint efforts of all the community institutions are needed to achieve tangible results.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the report by mr mitchell on the establishment of a rapid response instrument to the worrying rise in food prices in developing countries. i particularly agree with the rapporteur when he says that the rise in food prices cannot and must not be used only to fill the headlines. it is worrying that the much-discussed globalization of markets has led to an increase in the number of people in the world living below the poverty line. even more worrying, however, is the fact that at international level there is a lot of talk and little concrete and effective action. i therefore appreciate the rapporteur's emphasis on the need for a rapid response and the reference to a system whereby, in addition to urgent measures in the field of social security, there is a willingness to provide financing to ensure greater and better access to agricultural production factors and services, taking into account the need to act locally in a differentiated manner.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr garcia-margallo y marfil on the fight against tax fraud in intra-community transactions, with particular reference to the common vat system. i support the need to combat tax fraud in connection with intra-community transactions and believe that, in the context of the european single market, administrative cooperation between member states in this respect should be strengthened. in those cases where the problem is not resolved within national borders, measures which largely fall within national competence should be accompanied by measures of joint european accountability, exchange of good practice and formal tax obligations.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. small and medium-sized enterprises are the vital heart of the european economy, both in terms of growth and innovation and in terms of employment. a careful policy of support for them therefore means ensuring the stability of the whole system, which is all the more important at this time of global crisis which can only be tackled without forgetting the real economy. we must therefore support all efforts, but we must not forget that much remains to be done and that our commitment must not be waived.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled on improving the environment for smes in europe - small business act. i am firmly convinced that smes, representing more than 90% of all businesses in europe, make a decisive contribution to the economic growth of the european union. this is why there needs to be a european small business act (sba), which can only be effective if there is a concrete commitment at national and european level to implement it. i also agree that the council should be asked to confirm its intention to formally adopt this law at the next european council, in order to ensure the right and appropriate level of visibility for such an important initiative.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. achieving gender equality is a prerequisite for all countries applying to join the union. the turbulent history of the balkans makes it more difficult to intervene and monitor the situation. although the process of democratization is progressing, much remains to be done. in the eastern balkans, many women are still discriminated against and live in conditions of personal, economic and social insecurity. the regulatory framework therefore needs to be further improved. in this sense i no longer see the ratification of the 1979 un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) as a matter of urgency. and in abolishing all forms of violence and inequality, our aim must be to guarantee women their right not to be equal to men, but to express without any limitation the full complexity and richness of their world, on every level of human life.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposal to establish a european cormorant management plan to reduce their increasing impact on fisheries resources, fisheries and aquaculture. it is of the utmost importance to reduce the population of these birds, which take more than 300 000 tonnes of fish from european waters each year (the share of consumption of france, spain, italy, germany, hungary and the czech republic combined). the current situation is the result of directive 79/409/eec, which has led to an excessive increase in the cormorant population. the law has therefore had a direct impact on local fisheries and fishing activities, so that the presence of cormorants has become a european problem. i therefore agree with the rapporteur on the proposal for a coordinated european action and management plan, taking into account the great mobility of the cormorant as a migratory bird, provided that it is not in any way considered to be contrary to the objectives of the 1979 birds directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have noted that in italy alone some 4 million kilograms of food, which is still safe and edible, are destroyed every day, worth at least 4 billion euros - about half of what italy spends on international aid - and the situation is very similar in the other countries of the union. these are foods that are removed or withdrawn from the market before their expiry date because of marketing rules, overly strict european regulations and corporate image issues. the italian government minister luca zaia raised the issue at the last agriculture council: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i therefore call for a timely check to be carried out by the relevant parliamentary committees in order to try to solve a problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago marjory van den broeke, spokesman for the general secretariat of the european parliament, told the press that we in the european parliament had bought eight body scanners, which we discussed in parliament for weeks and adopted a resolution on. we bought these machines and during the discussion no one - the general secretariat, the president - informed us that we had bought those machines on which we were raising the question of whether they were authorized at airports or not. i think that this was an incredible wrongdoing on the part of the presidency or the secretary-general. i asked for information on this matter in writing on 4 november and i am still waiting for a reply. i had to find it in the eu observer of 10 december and i am still waiting for a reply to this. i wonder how it is possible that we bought the machines and that during that debate, when we spoke out against the use of those machines, we were not even told that we had already bought them, exposing ourselves to a ridiculous public image.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, last week there was a european council and once again, as has been the case for some months now, the european parliament members were not allowed to enter. they were not even allowed to enter the press centre, and i think this is a completely ridiculous situation in which we asked you to intervene, but in which we have not obtained any result. i think that this is a real problem, not just a matter of the vanity of members who want to go around there, i think that we are co-legislators on some of the issues and topics that are discussed in that place. it is very important for the public to have access, through the journalists of course, to what is happening, also through the voice of the european parliamentarians, and this cannot continue. we have asked you on many occasions to take action, and we hope you have, but perhaps you should do a little better. and we really hope that we can get a positive result because frankly this is an indecent situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is news from the united states that there is even talk of nationalizing the large car groups to deal with their crisis. as is always the case in the united states, there are moments when ideology, even the liberal ideology, is abandoned and very concrete actions are taken. europe cannot stand by and watch the crisis in the car industry. it is important that the new emissions regulation is voted on, that the commission says that the environment and innovation must be the guiding principles of the crisis response and that the same car is mentioned, but more is needed. i ask you, mr president, and the council and the commission for their role, if it is not necessary to have a genuine extraordinary plan to act immediately, before the number of redundancies and the additional costs, which in italy, in my country, are already very numerous and affect important groups, from eaton to fiat itself, increase.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in future memory, if the future has any memory, we are witnessing a genetic change in the parliament of the european union, the president, which you knew well in 1985 and helped to bring to life at that time. the european homeland against the illusion of the old europe of the homelands. today we are going in that direction every day. the council was reminded yesterday of the old nationalist and non-europeanist memory of europe from the atlantic to the urals. the europe of coudenhove-kalergi, of winston churchill, of our names which give our parliament its name. they were for the united states of europe, today we are only talking about partnership to all those who want instead to be membership, to be europe and i think we are handing them all - look at the mediterranean - to a fate that is certainly dangerous and certainly hurts the europeans and the democrats in those countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. i would like to say to the french presidency, which i thank for its commitment, that there has been no adequate effort to engage in effective dialogue with parliament. what we are doing tonight is a very delicate debate, our words must be dictated by the utmost responsibility, as well as the policies that will follow. we must be very aware that any compromise to the downside is consumed on the skin of the workers and that therefore a compromise at all costs can have a price to pay in terms of health, safety and reconciliation between family life and working life. we are all well aware that the world of work has changed and is changing further, precisely in these weeks, in these days, under the shock wave of the economic crisis. and we are all convinced that more flexibility is needed, but in a balanced way and above all by avoiding that workers' rights are unduly restricted in the name of the emergency. the council's proposals raise some very serious questions, which have been raised by all the other rapporteurs before me. first of all: the opt-out. on the one hand, there is an awareness that this formula is very problematic and therefore a clause for revision is provided for, but this is done in a generic way, without setting a specific date, on the other hand, a kind of blackmail veil is put on it, because if there were a failure on the text of the council's common position, the current directive would remain with an opt-out without limits. secondly: there is also the whole problem of the concept of watch time, which is in fact often equated with rest time. the commission has already said that it will not be able to do so. and finally , the reconciliation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore realise that a revision of the directive is necessary and would be absolutely useful, but it cannot be done at all costs by replacing legislative gaps with disturbing ambiguities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow there will be a major trade union demonstration in strasbourg against the real coup d'état that the council has carried out on the time directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. far from overcoming the system of opt-outs and individual derogating agreements, these are even being generalized. the calculation of working time is annualized, resulting in extreme flexibility, and rest periods are also made random and at the mercy of company agreements, just as inactive working time is to be considered as part-time work, partly recognized and paid: that is unacceptable. the policy of exploiting labour to the full, while so many workers are unemployed, is a symbol of a devaluation of labour itself which is so much a part of the crisis we are going through. it is good that parliament is listening to the demonstration tomorrow and is reacting to this coup by the council in order to reassert its sovereignty in this way too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in appreciating the work of mr cercas, i would say at once that there was absolutely no need or desire to change this directive on working time and i would like this debate to confirm what has emerged from the vote in the committee on social affairs and employment of the european parliament. today the doctors are here in parliament, tomorrow we will have in strasbourg delegations of workers from all over europe, convened by the european trade union confederation. they will be here to express their intention to say no to the compromise reached in the council on the directive and i wonder how it could be otherwise. we want to set ourselves two clear objectives: the commission's proposal is to maintain 48 hours as the maximum weekly working time in the european union and thus to overcome the opt-out clause which would risk derogating from this maximum working time, making it possible to achieve up to 60 or 65 hours of work per week. the second objective concerns duty time, which cannot be regarded as idle time but must be regarded as working time in all its aspects, just as the right to compensatory rest for medical staff must be safeguarded. these objectives can and must be shared by the whole of parliament because they represent the way to avoid a change in the competitive factors within europe, based on social dumping and greater exploitation of working people. i really hope that the members will agree on these positions so that a new social europe can really take hold.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council's proposal, which overrides the good balance achieved in its time - i am thinking of the great work done in this respect by our colleague, mr luigi cocilovo - is not to our liking because it marks an objective setback in many aspects of work, the relationship between work and life, the relationship between work and guarantees, and is a choice which weakens the rights of workers, which are the rights of all of us, of our children, of ordinary people. and i don't want this to be a union or corporate conversation because i'm defending the health care workers. no, it's not. as a politician, i don't act on behalf of corporations or unions. i act on behalf of the citizens. i think of them when i make my choices, i think of their social rights, which are fundamental to me in europe. i do not think it is a good europe if it does not make progress while the rest of the world is making progress, and if it makes blatant errors of perspective, mistaking the weakening of protection for flexibility and freedom. this is all the more serious at a time when europe is experiencing its worst crisis and sees no prospects for prosperity and growth. if we fail to understand, mr president-in-office of the council, representatives of the council and the commission, that at this moment millions of workers are at risk of losing their jobs and feel themselves in a state of weakness and precariousness and certainly do not have the capacity to enter into voluntary contracts - other than opt-out - then i have to say that we have no idea what is really happening in the social and family life of europeans. we shall therefore support the proposals of the rapporteur, mr cercas, and we hope that the whole of parliament will do the same. i must say that the council's unwillingness to negotiate at this stage forces us to conquer a place of confrontation and negotiation in the conciliation process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fruit of work is not just the production of goods and services, but the real fulfillment of a life project, the fulfillment of the desire that leads us to seek happiness. it is therefore appropriate that decisions on labour policy be taken in a thoughtful manner with a heart for their own judgments. i therefore think it wise for parliament to favour the conciliation procedure, supporting the rapporteur's position on the one hand, but above all the amendments by mr peneda, and i must say in this connection that what is obvious and must be absolutely guaranteed is that duty time in the health professions is recognised as working time in its entirety.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive will be a decisive text for the construction of an economic and social europe. it is a common belief that innovation in the labour market must and can be built up to enhance productivity and quality in the flexibility required without exploiting people. the right to work under the best possible conditions, which is an inalienable right of everyone, guarantees the safety and efficiency of the worker's activities. we therefore consider the proposal adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs to be balanced. in particular, it should be stressed that for medical staff, adequate safeguards in the organisation of working shifts and rest periods are essential to ensure not only fair conditions per se, but also to ensure the safety and quality of patient care and a reduction of clinical risk.
the agenda includes the report by philip bushill-matthews, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of a european works council or a procedure for the information and consultation of employees in community-scale undertakings and groups of undertakings (recast) (com (2008) 0419 - c6-0258/2008 - 2008/0141 (cod)) (a6-0454/2008).
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recasting of the directive on the european works council is good news. it shows that social europe is moving forward, that progress is possible in improving the rights of european workers to information and consultation. it also shows the value of involving the social partners. without it, we would not have achieved this. finally, it shows the quality of the work and cooperation between the three institutions: the commission, parliament and the council, because if parliament decides tomorrow, we will have reached an agreement at first reading and we can only welcome it. if so, i thank you, mr president.
member of the commission. - progress is difficult, but it is possible. i think the history of this draft directive on works councils is proof of that. it has not been an easy journey and i would like to emphasise in particular the role of the social partners and the role of mr bushill matthews, the rapporteur, as well as his social democrat colleague, mr cremers. i think the debate has made it clear that the proposal is ripe for a vote, and i also think that this is really good news for social europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday.
the agenda includes the report by marianne thyssen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the safety of toys (com (2008) 009 - c6-0039/2008 - 2008/0018 (cod)) (a6-0441/2008).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i, as rapporteur, propose three oral amendments: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's my proposal. on amendment no 65, on the voting list, which concerns recital 12c, my proposal is that the following indent be inserted between the words 'parliamentary assistance' and 'they cover all the costs': 'the amount of which per year will be determined in the framework of the annual budgetary procedure'. the oral amendment to amendment no 75, which concerns rule 131, is as follows: the words 'transparent' shall be added after the words 'reference framework' and the word 'transparent' shall be added after the words 'transparent reference framework'. these are the oral amendments which i propose to the house as rapporteur and hope that they will be accepted.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask the commission formally whether, in view of all these amendments which have been adopted, it agrees with them.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i thank the representative of the commission, i would ask for a few minutes of your attention, because i have to read a political declaration, an institutional declaration agreed with the council. 'the european parliament and the council agree, without prejudice to the powers of the budgetary authority, that the transition to the new regime for accredited parliamentary assistants will not, in itself, lead to an increase in the appropriations entered in the european parliament section of the general budget of the european union and intended to cover parliamentary assistance, compared to the appropriations entered for this purpose in the budget for the financial year 2008, subject to indexation. the european parliament draws attention to article 69 (2) of the implementing measures for the statute for members of the european parliament - adopted by the bureau of the european parliament on 17 july 2008 - which provides that the amount of reimbursed expenses for all parliamentary assistants may be indexed annually by the bureau of the parliament. the european parliament and the council agree that should the commission propose, in accordance with article 96 (11) of the cpr, an adjustment of the contribution to the unemployment insurance scheme, due to the inclusion of accredited assistants in that scheme, the necessary payments to the european parliament should be financed under a specific budget line and taken from the global appropriations allocated to the sections of the budget relating to the european parliament. the european parliament and the council recall that, in accordance with the second subparagraph of article 248 (4) tec, the court of auditors may at any time submit its observations on specific issues in the form of special reports or deliver opinions at the request of one of the other institutions of the community. the european parliament undertakes to consult the future representative body of accredited parliamentary assistants on any changes to the internal decision referred to in article 125 (1) of the cpr. 'this is the statement agreed with the council and while i ask the council whether it agrees - which seems to me to be a foregone conclusion - i just want to take two minutes to say a thought, a reflection to parliament. we have carried out a work which, as the president has said, is long-standing and has been discussed for many years, but the legal affairs committee, which was instructed in a few days to take account of a proposal which came from the commission but which had been elaborated in some way by the roure committee - to which i thank the chairman - did a thorough job. i am very proud to say that the legal affairs committee has dealt with a problem which my colleagues know is difficult. we have struck a balance between the fundamental freedom of the member to choose his assistant - this is said in the whole context - which determines transparency, which gives rules and which therefore modifies this situation about which there was uncertainty. i have defended the legal affairs committee, mr president, and i have also written a letter to mr pöttering, saying that the committee, because it had the right and the duty to have a great debate, has had it, and i think it has struck the right balance. i must thank the commission and the council for their cooperation in the trilogue, but i must thank above all the coordinators and colleagues and the secretariat, mrs maria josé, who has made an exceptional contribution to which we are witnessing today. i hope that the members of parliament will vote, we shall see in the next two years whether this legislation can be of great help to our parliamentary work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry if this seems like a kind of slander, but i hope you will forgive me, because some of you may not know this yet, but it was you who brought this dossier to the bureau in the past years, so you could not say it, i say it, so i thank you on behalf of my group, but i think that in addition to my group you also have a role to play in the vice-presidency of parliament.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this agreement, which is part of the interaction between our europe and the maghreb. however, i would like to emphasize again the repeated violation of human rights and the failure of morocco to respect its international obligations on the saharawi issue: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the right of the saharawi people as a whole to have a say in self-determination must be reaffirmed: this is the latest case of colonialism in africa and the international community cannot continue to remain silent. europe must take its responsibilities in this context.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the recommendation by mr saryusz-wolski on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the member states of the european community and the kingdom of morocco. i believe that parliament should give its favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the territory of the union; the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and morocco.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this report by mr saryusz-wolski, which envisages greater synergy with albania. the albanian territory belongs geographically to europe and it is our duty to encourage this country, which has faced such enormous difficulties, to draw progressively closer to the community institutions. this report goes in that direction. i have met in recent months in tirana university students: i feel a strong desire for europe is growing among the new albanian levers, who understand the need to break out of the historical isolation that the country has always experienced and the opportunity to share a common path with the 27 european partners. we are working towards that goal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr albertini on the agreement between the european community and india on certain aspects of air services. i agree with the rapporteur that the positive experience of the bilateral agreement between the united states and india signed in 2005 and the consequent elimination of restrictions on capacity, tariffs and quantitative market access controls should be taken as an example by the union, as such an agreement would benefit not only european companies operating in the aviation sector but also the users of the air service. however, i think it is appropriate to stress that this agreement must be a starting point for the time being and that full liberalisation of air transport with india will have to wait until the measures currently envisaged are implemented, so as not to risk, as often happens, that economic cooperation will run faster than social development.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs diana wallis on her excellent work. we are in a particularly delicate economic situation where, unfortunately, the crisis that started in the united states, which at first only involved finance, is now reaching the real economy on a global scale. the seriousness of the situation is confirmed by the fact that capitalism is for the first time calling on the help of the state, which until a few weeks ago was considered its historic enemy. the state simply has the job of making the rules. the current report is therefore welcome, which provides for new, stricter rules on the guarantees required of companies to protect the interests of members and third parties.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of mrs madeira's report on the regional development aspects of the impact of tourism in coastal regions. i believe that although tourism is not a matter for the european union and there are therefore no financial instruments specifically for this sector, it is necessary to provide for an assessment of the impact of such an important sector as coastal tourism on regional development and on the economic, social and territorial cohesion of all the member states. i agree with the honourable member that integrated action and a coherent approach in environmental, energy, maritime and transport policy strategies are needed to ensure that the various measures to promote tourism are in the same direction, to the benefit of the population living in coastal areas of the european economy in general.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs prets on media literacy in a digital environment. in view of the increasingly widespread use of new information and communication technologies, which permeate even the most basic aspects of daily life, and the enormous opportunities that these tools embody, it becomes necessary for the population to possess not only the ability to use these tools to enjoy their potential benefits but also, and above all, the ability to guard against the risks of manipulation of information and the omissions and incompleteness that often characterize information found on the telematic network compared to that provided by traditional means of communication. i therefore appreciate the work of mrs pretz and hope that the measures taken will be consistent with it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i confirm my vote in favour of the lehideux report, which is being put to the vote today after a long debate in which parliament was the protagonist in an attempt to improve the final act. we are in a particularly difficult economic environment where the economic and financial crisis that is affecting us seems destined to last throughout 2009. the european commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has the task of continuing to monitor the effectiveness and achievement of the objectives.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after so many years of work involving this parliament, we are today unanimously approving a measure which is likely to have a profound effect on the work of the community institutions. i would like to stress in particular the positive aspects of the new regulation of the system for parliamentary assistants, which will be based on rules of transparency and balance, while respecting the discretionary choice which remains with the member. it is a significant step forward and at the same time a positive signal to the outside world.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank you because, as a member of a group called the union for a europe of nations, i can only appreciate your words. your presidency has shown that there can be a european policy, a political europe, if we have the courage that was shown in the conflict between russia and georgia, if we have the capacity to manage the financial crisis with new methods of work and open interpretations against the rigidity of the stability pact. we have appreciated and supported the political vision of a presidency which has put politics back at the centre of the debate and, consequently, has put europe back at the centre of the world debate. we believe that the ecb's independence must mean that it must deal with the institutions more quickly. it has been proved that central banks cannot solve crises unless they have a clear political vision and a shared development strategy. the definition of the 'climate-energy package' by overcoming the national problematic resources is a great success and a hope for the future, together with the union for the mediterranean, the main road to peace and development. but there are still some priorities which we hope the troika and the next presidency will be able to resolve together. among these, besides immigration and border control and the revival of agriculture, there is also real wage equality between men and women. today europe is talking about equality between men and women through retirement age, and i think it would be appropriate to start achieving equal pay. president. - i think that the solution of one commissioner per country is the right one. we have already said this in the convention, and we thank the french presidency for bringing this proposal back to life. and finally, you have defined this as a systemic crisis, and that is why, mr president, we are with you in calling for a reform of the system, a reform of the system based on the ability to make the real economy prevail over finance, real goods over paper goods.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the french presidency, or rather the few remaining members of the council after our long debate, but also our commissioner who has shown the greatest resistance. i must say that in these six months we have indeed breathed in the air of the time of the founding fathers, that is to say, deep convictions that have shown us that what unites us is stronger than what divides us. i think this is an important lesson that has come from the french presidency, which has also opened up a very interesting horizon for us, namely that we have understood that european integrationism is not an opportunity, and the balanced way in which the 'climate package' has been handled tells us that integration is not a value in itself, but for the vision that is capable of bringing us all back to common objectives. i would simply point out that if these lessons were so important, it is worthwhile to follow the lesson of courage and go all the way. it would be worthwhile, particularly on the subject of the economic and financial crisis, to have more courage and, therefore, to have the measures we have taken so far be accompanied by more decisive initiatives, such as the adoption of eurobonds. i believe that this is the best way to complete the perspective given by the french presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to inform the president, prime minister sarkozy, that carlo fatuzzo fully agrees with what the french presidency has done in the last six months, one hundred per cent. i would also like him to know that i came to this house at a time when president sarkozy was saying that commitment to major projects promotes agreement and facilitates their achievement. i thank him for encouraging me to achieve my great project, my very great project as a representative of pensioners elected to this parliament for the second time, namely that european citizens as pensioners, as elderly people, should be better off than they were when they were working. more money, more respect, more dignity when they retire. it is a very big project, but i am even more encouraged by the words i heard today from president sarkozy.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. the text on renewable energy produced by the trilogue contains a clear definition of the objectives and, above all, of their mandatory nature. the 2014 revision clause is to be understood in terms of more flexibility to focus on the reduction target, which remains at 20%, and whether there are conditions to push it up to 30% by 2020. it should be stressed that the most powerful and cost-effective flexibility tool for member states is the measurement of national efficiency targets in the building, transport, industrial and better use of electricity sectors. the mandatory 10% target for biofuels should be qualified by demands for efficiency in the processing processes by noting environmental and social sustainability criteria. the use of biomass should be directed towards non-controversial areas and towards conversion technologies that are more efficient than first and second generation biofuels. the agreement reached by the council and the will of the european parliament send a positive message: we cannot face the very serious economic crisis without a change of strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. the package which this parliament is called upon to adopt, although watered down by the selfishness of the member states, is aimed at providing innovative responses to mitigate the impact of climate change. if we do not act quickly, this problem will weigh heavily on the european economy, but above all on the lives of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that one of the keys to european policies on climate change and energy has recently been discussed with interesting arguments. at a time of serious crisis for our economies, i can only appreciate the extent to which the french presidency has agreed, also in concert with president berlusconi - and i should like to thank him and emphasize this - to reach a conclusion on the question of contributing to the destruction and pollution of the planet, but also on reasonable terms for the survival of our industries. the turmes report is, in fact, a positive contribution to the outlook, since renewable energy is clearly an inescapable frontier. i agree with the general thrust of the report and the amendments, in particular 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7, which i shall be voting for, although i would like to see a different assessment of some of the instruments for the production of renewable energy, the impact of which has actually yet to be assessed and discussed. the objectives proposed cannot, however, ignore not only environmental sustainability but also social sustainability and, if you will allow, all the factors involved in our production.
on behalf of the uen group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, commissioner dimas and the french presidency on another undeniable success of this semester. i think that the adoption of the climate and energy package and this directive is a very positive development. i believe that europe can now claim to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change. we have all the necessary documents to present ourselves in copenhagen next year with authority and force, and to be able to ask all the other countries of the world to do as europe has done. i would like to emphasize in particular the positive role played by italy, and it does not seem to be a contradiction: italy did not want to withdraw and did not want to hinder the ambitious objectives that we all set ourselves, but at the same time we had the duty to defend our national production system. as president sarkozy said this morning, europe cannot be built against states and against national interests. a compromise was needed and we are sure that we have achieved it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the agreement reached on the climate and energy package is an ambitious agreement, because on the one hand it respects the objectives set in terms of environmental protection, but at the same time it indicates the ways in which these objectives can be combined with economic sustainability. and i also consider it a success for italy, because italy has negotiated some critical aspects of the package and the results are positive. the text which has been adopted is much improved on the version produced by the envi committee and, above all, it is much closer to the position of our political family. the clause, for example, which provides for a review in 2010, also in the light of the results of the copenhagen conference, agreed on a proposal from president berlusconi, is a qualifying point and the fact that it was unanimously adopted i believe is a good sign of sensitivity to the industrial system, just as it is important that the gradual introduction of the auction system in industrial sectors not exposed to international competition has been accepted, allowing and allowing instead sectors at risk of "carbon leakage" to benefit from the allocation of free allowances. but that does not mean that it will be a walk, that it will be an easy path, because this package still causes a significant increase in costs on the country system. the commission has also taken the view that the exemption from the levy is not compatible with the common market. so let's get back to the importance of the review clause: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i believe that parliament will have to monitor the implementation of the agreement and in particular how the auctions will be conducted, which i believe will be the real test. we are asking the real economy to make a great effort and, as we have always said, we do not want this effort to result in excessive financialization which is not linked to the real economy.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs hassi for the hard work she has put in and, why not say it, for her sense of compromise which has made it possible to converge on the essentials. it is well known that she would have liked the system to be more restrictive on certain subjects, but i think that in this process of trilogue and codecision we are achieving something that is as successful as possible today. two points, firstly on the path of cuts, flexibilities and sanctions, which was the subject of the trilogue this weekend. this flexibility was necessary for some member states. parliament called for the commission to be accompanied by a reinforcement of corrective mechanisms. i think we've made it. secondly, the use of the clean development mechanism has changed marginally for only a few states and in only a few cases, in particular with regard to a number of territories in real development: the least developed or the small islands. the debate, in my view, will remain open in each country and i feel that it is the general debate on the development mechanisms themselves and the ability to absorb and direct them under the right conditions, independently of this text, that is at issue. finally, i would remind you that the transition to a higher level of commitment after copenhagen will be the subject of a codecision procedure. i therefore believe, mrs hassi, that the risk of a downward trend is not possible.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs hassi for the excellent work she has done and for the effort she has made to maintain the basic principles and architecture of the commission's original proposal, which in my view have also been preserved in the compromise agreement on the effort-sharing decision. i must also stress again that the environmental targets for a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions in the european union by 2020 will be met by the package and of course this decision will contribute to the success of our objective. we have made no compromise in the success of the objectives. it was previously reported that there are two parts to the package. we can distinguish them into environmental objectives - and there was no change there; we are not going to be able to achieve the same results as we had planned - and on all other issues, including the auction or whether investments can be made in countries outside the european union. there are also some changes which do not change either the basic architecture of the package or the environmental objectives. in particular, for the decision, the national targets for member states set out in the proposal are maintained as proposed by the commission. member states will be asked to reduce their emissions over the period 2013-2020 according to a linear function with binding annual targets. this will ensure that member states across all sectors of the economy contribute their fair share to achieving the european union's 20% emissions reduction target by 2020. one of the main problems in the discussions on the sharing of efforts between member states was the need to balance the achievement of the member states' objectives with the adoption of effective monitoring and compliance measures to ensure that these objectives are met. the compromise agreement on the sharing of effort is balanced. it provides member states with sufficient flexibility to achieve their objectives in a cost-effective manner while ensuring the implementation of a robust monitoring and compliance system. the provisions proposed by the commission for monitoring the action of the member states and assisting them in taking any necessary corrective measures have also been maintained and strengthened. the achievement of the contractual agreement on the effort-sharing decision is a major achievement which would not have been possible without the concerted efforts of the european parliament and in particular of rapporteur satu hassi. i therefore urge you all to vote in favour of the agreement.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the employment committee welcomes the objectives and measures that help to reduce climate change and mitigate its effects. i shall confine myself to a social aspect: the wealth of the so-called first world, overproduction and excessive consumption - particularly transport, which consumes enormous amounts of fossil fuels - are the main causes of the increase in greenhouse gases which are harmful to the climate. on the other hand, the most vulnerable and poorest are the ones most affected by the consequences of the impending climate catastrophe. they lack the means to adapt. energy and food prices are hitting them much, much harder than the rich. already existing famines will worsen dramatically. we need a global offensive against world hunger. our demand: the burden of reducing greenhouse gas emissions must be shared in a socially acceptable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the house today president sarkozy has honestly reconstructed the nature of the compromise on the climate package. effort sharing is part of this compromise. the point of any compromise is to see what you're setting in motion, what direction you're going in, and whether you're up to the challenge. if we see the scale of the environmental and economic crisis, we cannot help but be concerned about too much irrigation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the so-called unanimity of the states that sarkozy spoke of. we know that berlusconi's was propaganda, because that is not how things really get started with this package, but much credit goes to parliament, which has not only been more european, but ahead of the council and the member states. the question is not only the balance between the institutions, but also the dynamics between them, which must lead to a greater role for parliament precisely because we need more democracy. we shall therefore also stress in the votes our loyalty to the texts of this parliament and i would like to say that the committee on the environment has done a very good job in building up an advanced point and that on this matter, contrary to what mr goebbels has said, the rapporteur, mrs hassi, has been particularly clever and effective.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the geological storage of carbon dioxide and amending council directives 85/337/eec and 96/61/ec and directives 2000/60/ec, 2001/80/ec, 2004/35/ec, 2006/12/ec and regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 (com (2008) 0018 - c6-0040/2008 - 2008/0015 (cod)) (a6-0414/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec as regards the specifications for petrol, diesel fuel and diesel oil and the introduction of a mechanism to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of road transport fuels and amending council directive 1999/32/ec as regards the specifications for fuel used by inland waterway vessels and repealing directive 93/12/eec (com (2007) 0018 - c6-0061/2007 - 2007/0019 cod)) (a6-049/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2008.
the agenda includes the report by guido sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down emission performance standards for new passenger cars as part of the integrated community approach to reduce co2 emissions from light-duty vehicles (com (2007) 0856 - c6-0022/2008 - 2007/0297 (cod)) (a6-0419/2008).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dulcis in fondo, let us say, this is the dossier which was closed first, exactly fifteen days ago, and it is the one which is discussed last, a strange fate. first of all, and in a very informal way, i should like to thank all those who have worked on this dossier, but particularly the delegation of the french presidency, among many others. i too will mention mr l'église costa, who conducted this negotiation with great professionalism and in an intelligent way we found a solution to a problem together, perhaps at the most difficult time imaginable, namely in the midst of a very deep crisis in the automobile industry. if you think about it, this is not a foregone conclusion, especially given how this dossier started. you will all remember the controversy when the commission adopted the proposal in december last year. and we were able to not only get it done, but to do three things at once: the commission's proposal is to strengthen the european union's external relations by strengthening the union's external relations. i 'm talking about reinforcement . as you know, the priority proposed by parliament was accepted, namely the inclusion of a long-term reduction target: 2020, 95 grams of co2 per kilometer. that's what we're going to do. this is important, of course, because it aligns this sector with others covered by other legislative instruments such as the ets, but also, and above all, because it enables companies to plan their investment, innovation and research plans properly, which i believe is very important at this difficult time. secondly, i am talking about enrichment for the reasons mrs corbey mentioned earlier. we have indeed set the course for the future by encouraging eco-innovation, but by subjecting it to strict controls, we have encouraged the search for new engines, say new propellants, we have introduced this form of super credit for very low-emission cars. this opens up a strategic perspective, of course, by going through a review in 2015 of the test systems that allow the contribution of different technologies to emission reductions to be measured adequately and credibly. finally, we have made flexibility, as i said, because precisely in order to strengthen the regulation it was possible, reasonable and right to allow companies a gradual approach, a phasing-in between 2012 and 2015, and at the same time we have, as you know, reshaped the arrangements in such a way as to maintain them as a means of pressure on companies to invest so that they can meet their specific reduction targets, but at the same time making it easier for them to enter the new system. i am very pleased with this, which i regard as a major industrial policy operation. it is a pity that we do not have the competence, we do not have the complete toolbox to be able to intervene with other instruments, with other levers, and i hope that under the coordination of the commission, all the member states will adopt intelligent policies to stimulate demand, for example by using forms of ecological taxation - as the french government has decided in this case - in such a way as to avoid distortions of competition. this would be a very useful accompaniment to the replacement of the existing, obsolete vehicle fleet, allowing instead for large-scale emissions in the market of more efficient cars. i hope that we shall also have the pleasure of hearing the commission's opinion on this compromise today, because it has never been officially stated.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mr sacconi, for his excellent work on the compromise, which was achieved with determination, with determination and also with suffering. the report on the reduction of co2 emissions from light vehicles added an important piece: the fight against climate change. for the first time, we have set a long-term target of 95 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2020, at a time when the financial crisis and subsidies from non-european countries are adding up to put a strain on our industry. we have fought successfully to introduce a relaxation of sanctions, with reference to slight deviations from the objectives set. we consider the method chosen by the commission to determine the reduction targets, based on the average vehicle weight, to be questionable and not justified from an environmental point of view. this approach leads to the paradoxical penalisation of the lighter and smaller vehicles, which are therefore less polluting. however, i believe and hope that, with the right balances, the text can give a major impetus towards a targeted commitment. for these reasons i welcome the dossier on the reduction of co2 emissions from cars as an important achievement and i will therefore support its approval.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wanted to take the opportunity to thank mr sacconi for the work he has done, first of all because he has now gained experience which has led him to solve even the most difficult cases, but also certainly the french presidency, the council and the commission, which have allowed us, in all seriousness and with a strong commitment, to close all these dossiers on the climate and in particular the one relating to the car sector, which, as many have mentioned, also had concerns linked to the economic situation we are experiencing. many of those who have gone before me have said that the objectives are ambitious, from the initial ones for 2012 to the final ones for 2020, and that it was a good thing to choose this unique date as well as for other dossiers that we are going to approve in these days. the choice of gradual introduction of the modulated penalty system and the possibility of accounting for reductions achieved through the use of eco-innovations are also important. all these things have come out of the interinstitutional trilogue and i believe that they have enabled us to find solutions which, without affecting the general objectives, reduce the economic cost to manufacturers at this delicate time: the introduction of supercredits for cars with emissions of less than 50 grams of co2 per kilometre. but i also want to emphasize that the approach that increases the weight of vehicles also increases the limit value for emissions, forces the smaller cars probably to a non-compliance with that general rule of "the more polluters the more they pay". but we are happy with the result and we are happy to vote on this dossier.
mr sacconi, we are at the end, but it is not the end i understand.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a simple fact that anyone can do, let us say, on his own behalf with pen and paper. the average co2 emissions of cars sold in 2005 were 159 grams per kilometre. in 2020, on the basis of this regulation, which introduces a binding target for 2020 of 95 grams per kilometre, we will have a 38% reduction in the average emissions of the fleet sold. it's a simple calculation, let's say, you don't need impact studies to get there, it seems extraordinary to me. i would like to apologize to all those who have praised me and thanked me for the work i have done and who agree with this compromise, which i think is a good majority, but you will allow me to address myself above all to those who disagree and to our friends, namely mr davies of the alde group, who are once again demonstrating their inability to take responsibility, to claim only big goals, but when it comes to the moment of decision, to leave the responsibility of decision to us. all right, i just hope that you don't get the same ridicule that happened to me for reach, because for reach, too, those same groups said it was a give-and-take, a betrayal. a month later, it was being hailed on their websites as a major environmental success for the union, putting it in the first place in the world in the control of chemicals, so to speak. i hope i'm spared that prank this time. i am grateful to the commissioner for his clear and clear assessment, and i am grateful to him for helping us to complete this difficult task by voting tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 december 2008. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission conclusions on climate change and energy.
i certainly agree with this, and it shows how professionally and gratuitously the commission and the council do their job. i have the honour to inform you that ms karin scheele has resigned from her mandate as a member of the european parliament with effect from 11 december 2008. in accordance with rule 4 (1), parliament shall declare the seat vacant from that date. in the meantime, the competent austrian authorities have informed the european parliament of the election of ms maria berger to replace ms scheele, with effect from 11 december 2008. pursuant to article 3 (2), until his credentials have been verified or a decision taken on any objections, mr berger shall be entitled to sit in the european parliament and its bodies, provided that he has previously submitted a declaration that he does not hold any office incompatible with that of member of the european parliament.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the council on the continuation and timely conclusion of the legislative process of the third energy package, by hannes swoboda, reino paasilinna, eluned morgan, atanas paparizov, giles chichester, alejo vidal-quadras, herbert reul, angelika niebler, gunnar hökmark, jerzy buzek, on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament and the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats (o-0120/2008 - b6-0493/2008).
president of the council. - mr president, i wanted to reply to mrs harms on this package because there is probably a problem of information between us. i would remind you that, despite the extraordinary work of the slovenian presidency, two major issues remained open and had not been dealt with by any of the institutions other than the commission: free and fair access to the market and investment by third countries in the union's energy sector. let me just say that these were not two small problems. these were two problems that were put off because they were complicated. they had not been dealt with, no agreement had been reached at the council meeting of 6 june 2008. the presidency is absolutely convinced that the internal market is part of the whole package of measures on which we are working and on which parliament will, i hope, vote tomorrow. at the october council i would like to say to mrs harms that we have spent i do not know how many difficult hours, commissioner piebalgs, when the positions were very different, to reach an agreement which was unanimous. the various bodies council secretariat, commission transfers, itre secretariat were then able to intervene. it is in fact under way, so that we can begin to move forward quite definitely, with a letter of coordination that has been sent, with the czech presidency, so that we can move forward as early as january in order to get an agreement before the end of the parliamentary term, which would close a long parliamentary term of the european parliament. that is what i had the opportunity to say earlier about the questioning of mr paparizov.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the french presidency again, which has also done a good job on our internal market energy package, because we really have had some difficult moments in the energy council. also, all the texts concerning the political agreement and the common position had to be translated in order to submit them to parliament, which required a lot of work. i would also like to emphasise that there has always been very close cooperation between the french presidency and the forthcoming czech presidency. i think the dossier is moving smoothly to the czech presidency, whose ambition is, if there is political will from parliament and from the council, to find compromises on all five proposals. i believe it is doable, and the commission will do everything in its power to facilitate it. in the mean time, i would emphasise one particular event, which i believe is very important. as mr paparizov rightly said about consumers, we launched our citizens’ energy forum with consumer organisations in the autumn, which brings all the consumer organisations together to discuss the energy market package, so we need to broaden the scope of the agreement not only because of parliament and the council but also to achieve greater acceptance of the energy market in general by european citizens. it is also very important to see in all this process that not only companies will benefit but also that citizens and industries will benefit. sometimes debates are misleading, because all the unbundling is actually done for the sake of consumers. i think that is a very important point and we will need to address this issue of strengthening our proposal during the trialogue that we will start in january. i am convinced that during the first week that we will meet here there will be this trialogue. it depends on the czech presidency, but i know its ambition and i know the readiness of the commission to move ahead. so i hope that we can do it all in strasbourg and i will convey the message to the czech presidency about your wish and willingness to work hard on the dossier.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder application of road safety legislation (com (2008) 0151 - c6-0149/2008 - 2008/0062 (cod)) (a6-0371/2008).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, 40,000 deaths in one year is a horrifying figure. if it is not a disaster, then it is certainly a very serious social phenomenon, the deaths of road users, which often forces the member states to limit themselves to a disarming count and to draw up alarming statistics. it is the result of increased mobility of people, some will say, it is the result of rampant mechanisation, some will say, of course, but it is also the consequence of a latent policy of prevention on the one hand and of repression on the other by the member states and by the european union itself, which has so far failed to ensure a common policy on road safety. a recent study by the italian statistical institute found that in 2007, 44% of all road accidents occurred in italy at night, between friday evening and sunday morning. but irresponsible behaviour by those who get behind the wheel unfortunately knows no territorial boundaries, and it is therefore more than appropriate to examine the proposal for a directive under discussion, which seeks to discourage motorists from committing road traffic offences wherever they are with the aim of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010. these are shared, but at least in some cases they require further improvement, and i want to give just one example: the infringement procedure. in my view, mr vice-president of the commission, we should follow the example of switzerland, where a person who commits a traffic offence is usually stopped a few kilometres later by a traffic police patrol and at two o'clock: the driver either pays the fine immediately or his car is impounded until the fine is paid. i am well aware and i conclude that it is not easy to implement such a measure, which may seem drastic but which is certainly effective, and it is known that cancer, and now it is metastatic, cannot be cured by aspirin. the report by mrs ayala sender is still a good report and i will certainly support it.
i'm not afraid of death, but i'd rather not die on a motorcycle.
in announcing that the council secretariat is present and is taking full note of the speeches - i say this for the benefit of the colleagues who have spoken and the comments made - mr rack will have the floor for two minutes.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only thank all those who took part in the debate, who gave strength to the decision which i hope will be taken by this house tomorrow, but also to the action which the commission is taking in the council. i think we'll get through this together eventually, even if it's not easy. i would like to stress the importance of the offences we are discussing, which account for the majority of fatal accidents. i want to read some percentages with you. the 2007 impact assessment, which estimates three years earlier, shows that 30% of road deaths are caused by speeding, 25% by drunk driving and i would add driving under the influence of drugs. that is why i am in favour of amendment no 38 by mrs lichtenberger, which adds and enriches the text presented by the commission with certain elements, and i have some doubts about the 70 euro question because it would make the treatment unequal. 17% of accidents involve the failure to use seat belts and about 4% involve red light traffic. in short, 75 percent of all traffic fatalities are caused by one or more of these four traffic violations. i do not think that there is any need to add anything else - i am addressing the council, the representatives of the council, the general secretariat of the council - i repeat what i said a few days ago at the transport council, the commission has no intention of reducing the powers of the member states, we are only interested in reducing the number of deaths on the roads of the european union and we intend - and i am also replying to mr rack - never to hide behind the application of rules. we have been firm with the member states on infringements, but only on matters concerning transport systems other than cars because this is the first time we have intervened against cars. we have regulations that apply to the driving of heavy vehicles, but not to cars. but i believe that thanks to the encouragement that has come from this parliament today, from the commission - i can confirm this to you, and i can also confirm this to the last member who spoke - we are moving forward, we are not going to stop because, i repeat, when it comes to saving human lives, there can be no legal objection that stops the action of those who have political responsibilities in the face of half a billion european citizens. i hope, mr president, that in concluding, christmas and the beginning of the new year will make the many ministers who have expressed their doubts about the text which the commission, in agreement with parliament, has presented to the council reflect. and since this is the last speech i shall make before the christmas break, i, mr president, also wish on behalf of the commission my best wishes to all the members, to the presidency and to parliament as a whole.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 december. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by piia-noora kauppi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/26/ec on settlement finality in payment and securities settlement systems and directive 2002/47/ec on financial collateral arrangements as regards linked systems and credits (com (2008) 0213 - c6-0181/2008 - 2008/0082 (cod)) (a6-0480/2008).
ms kauppi, once again we thank you for your work and we wish you all the best for your future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent financial crisis which has hit the international banking system hard has caused many savers to worry about the future and the uncertainty of their deposits. to try to remedy this volatility of the markets, their fluctuation and the risks of non-repayment by banks in obvious or hidden liquidity problems, the european parliament has prepared a proposal for a directive with the council aimed at amending deposit guarantee schemes, both as regards the level of cover and as regards the repayment term. in order to restore general confidence, ensure the proper functioning of the financial sector and better protect the deposits of individual savers and their families, the european council of 7 october invited the european commission to submit an urgent proposal to promote the convergence of deposit guarantee schemes in the european union. the measure parliament is approving today is intended to raise the minimum level of cover for private savers to at least eur 50 000, recognising that many member states are now aiming to raise the minimum cover to at least eur 100 000. the same directive also provides for a reduction in the repayment period, which is currently set at three months and can be extended to nine months, to a maximum of a few weeks. in a globalised economy, and particularly in europe where we are seeing a proliferation of banks and branches, it is essential for the member states of the european union to have strong crossborder cooperation between the home and host banks, in order to ensure guarantees and quick repayments in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of credit institutions. finally, since the revision of the european commission directive limits cover to depositors as natural persons, i believe that it would be appropriate to provide for the extension of cover to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are actively involved in the production processes of the economies of the member states and which represent an irreplaceable human and social asset. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the community's financial instruments are used to the full.
mr president, i thank you for giving me the floor. i simply wanted to warmly welcome mr mohamed abdelaziz, president of the sahrawi republic and secretary-general of the polisario front, and the delegation accompanying him to our gallery.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the text of which was coordinated by mr claude turmes. this directive is a key opportunity for the future of the european union, as it represents the entry into the third industrial revolution and an opportunity to create millions of jobs, making environmental protection a reality and at the same time promoting economic growth and competitiveness. as regards biofuels, i hope that the commission will be able to enforce sustainability criteria in europe and the rest of the world, by promoting international trade in cleaner and more competitive biofuels.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the review of the ets and the compromise reached between the objectives of combating climate change and strengthening the competitiveness of european industries and protecting jobs. i would like to express the view that the co-decision procedure, which was carried out in an accelerated manner to promote agreement at first reading, was not particularly respectful of democratic transparency and parliament found itself voting on a sort of fait accompli. nevertheless, i am very satisfied with mrs doyle's proposal for flexibility in sectors at risk of carbon leakage, since we must avoid job losses due to the relocation of industries to regions less sensitive to the reduction of emissions, without, however, undermining the purpose of the directive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of this recommendation, the text of which was coordinated in parliament by mr alejandro cercas. we are living through a particular contingency in which, unfortunately, the financial crisis is also investing the real economy. we need to make choices that will have a positive impact on our manufacturing sector and, above all, europe must be prepared for the new and difficult challenges to competitiveness that are looming on the horizon. i agree with the basic approach which seeks to provide a european framework for the regulation of the organization of working time: it is right, in this context, to promote greater involvement in decision-making by the social partners and in particular by those reformist trade unions which, throughout europe, are trying to support a commitment which, alongside the defence of workers' rights, is aimed at modernisation and growth.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with mrs ayala sender's report, which aims to achieve an important objective: extend the basic legislation on road safety aspects to the 27 member states. thanks to our joint efforts, we are now 27 in a context where the mobility of people and goods is no longer a chimera but a daily and concrete reality: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. i believe that in road safety it is possible today to have control instruments which make it possible to reduce dangers and risks considerably, for example, i think the 'tutor' system, which is being used experimentally on some italian motorways, has cut road accidents by 50 per cent on the relevant sections. this report is a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the rapporteur, mrs andrikienė, for her work on the question of the role of the european union in the united nations. there is no time to talk about the whole council report on human rights, i think that a fundamental question is that of respect for our own rules and, in particular, the operational mechanisms for the human rights clause in cooperation agreements, but we will have the opportunity to go into this matter in depth and discuss it with the report by mr obiols i germà. i would like to leave on record, in the short time that remains, my compliments and congratulations to the french presidency and to minister yade for taking the initiative at the un to decriminalize homosexuality everywhere. i think this is a very important political initiative and it is even more welcome that 60 states have already secured their support. we have heard the words of commissioner ferrero-waldner and we welcome those words and that commitment. it is important that the european union not only be united on this but also play a role similar to that which we have played in involving other countries on other continents to achieve a universal moratorium on capital punishment. that was the basic method. we must note here that the holy see, the vatican city state, not as a religious entity with which we have a cultural dialogue, but as an observer state at the united nations, has launched a strong offensive and criticism against the french initiative and, with the frankness that is due in international relations, i think we must remind the vatican that for us the decriminalisation of homosexuality is a value, it is a matter of human rights and that the attempt they are making must be decisively rejected.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. of course, there are several steps forward, but i am here to remind you again and again that the democratic clause voted by parliament three years ago is still not applied in trade agreements with all countries, as parliament has asked. the double standard continues to be used, strong with the weak and weak with the strong, depending on what is europe's interest in trade agreements, but this double standard is also used on other occasions. i refer to a theme already touched upon: i find the vatican state's position against the proposed decriminalization of homosexuality shameful and unacceptable. it is not possible that the european institutions should be issuing almost monthly appeals against those states which continue to persecute people whose only fault is that they are homosexuals, and that there should be silence when such a serious and damaging position is taken by the vatican and its representative at the un. it is a position which is contrary to the universal declaration of human rights, of which we are celebrating the 60th anniversary, a declaration, the vatican's declaration, which erases the fundamental point, namely that human rights are indivisible, universal and must be protected regardless of one's sexual orientation, gender and colour of skin and so on. i asked the chairman of the subcommittee on human rights to have the representative of the vatican state to the european union called to the subcommittee on human rights to answer this behaviour and to discuss it with the subcommittee - as we do with all the states which have diplomatic representation to the european union - and i would also like to make it clear that it was a hoax to try to backtrack by simply saying that france had not yet submitted that document, because the substance does not change, the vatican state has not backtracked on the serious statements it has made.
the next item is the debate on: - the report by mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2004-2008) [2007/2145 (ini) ] (a6-0479/2008); the oral question to the council on the european area of freedom, security and justice (easj): the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, 60 years ago the universal declaration of human rights ushered in a veritable global revolution, affirming the prophetic idea of the philosopher kant that the violation of a right in one country must be felt as such in every other part of the world. the human rights revolution has presented the international community with two closely related concepts. the first: there can and must be no distinction between citizen and foreigner, man and woman, white and black, christian and jew, muslim and non-muslim, believer and non-believer. in essence, it enshrines equality between all, in the claim of their rights. the second concept is that humanity itself is a guarantee of dignity and therefore no one can be treated in an unworthy manner, not even the worst of criminals. as kant himself says, we cannot deny the wicked the respect due them as men. the european union is considered the supreme homeland, the temple of human rights protection: the effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights must be the cornerstone of democracy in europe. the implementation of fundamental rights must be an objective of all european policies and to this end the institutions of the european union should actively promote, protect and take full account of fundamental rights in the development and adoption of legislation, supported by the work of the fundamental rights agency, which can give effect to the european charter of fundamental rights and at the same time ensure compliance with the system established by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. unfortunately, the political choices of governments and the legislative activity of parliaments have not always been able to guarantee the protection and promotion of fundamental rights within the european union. the european parliament has not approved a report on the situation of fundamental rights within the european union for six years, while we have always been careful and punctual in reporting violations of fundamental rights outside our territory. we cannot just pay proper attention to guantanamo, abu ghraib, the violations in colombia and china and then turn the other way when the violations are consumed in our own home. i agree with what commissioner ferrero-waldner said today, that we must build consistency between the internal and external policies of the european union. a careful analysis of the state of fundamental rights in the european union may well endorse a bitter view that human rights in europe are often only formally protected. in support of this claim, it would be sufficient to analyse the conditions of stateless persons, national minorities, roma, the deleted, refugees, asylum seekers and economic migrants. tomorrow is the international day for the protection of migrant workers and yet the un convention has not been transposed by any of the member countries. in recent years we have analysed the deterioration of administrative detention centres for migrants, which are, both legally and in terms of the material conditions of life, real black holes, places where men and women are often treated in an inhuman and degrading way, without the necessary legal safeguards required by legislation which is often unacceptable and guarantees both oppression and impunity. the situation of human rights in the european union is not at all comforting, says amnesty international's annual report, and so we must try to promote an active policy to prevent systematic violations of the rights which formally must be guaranteed and which must be declared inviolable. for this reason we ask the council - and i take advantage of the presence of the secretary of state - to include in future annual reports on human rights in the world, in addition to the analysis of the situation in the world, also that of each member state, so that in this way - and i conclude, mr president - we can avoid the double standard. what kind of europe do we want? that is the question we wish to answer in this report, which i am honoured to be drawing up.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the catania report is an important milestone in the life of the union, since it is the examination of the situation within the union. there is no doubt that the strong migratory pressure to which the union has been subjected for several years, together with the profound internal changes under way, has created and is creating numerous problems for member states and citizens both in europe and abroad. it is also clear that the union has specific duties, such as governing the situation in the fullest possible respect for human rights, but also in respect for and protection of its citizens and of the national organised systems. however, the whole of this very long and detailed report seems to indicate a widespread appeal to the member states for violations existing in their territories and therefore under their control. the report sets out a picture of a europe which, in my view, does not correspond to the reality of things and it seems - obviously in a way which i do not think the rapporteur intended - that more is being done to those who sometimes do not respect the rules than to those who do or have to make them respected. on the whole, while i agree with some parts of the report, i believe that it should be rewritten in other areas in the general interest. finally, mr president, may i express my personal solidarity with the vatican for the attacks which have been made on it in this house during the present debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our country can truly be considered a leader in the fight against discrimination and persecution, and as regards the protection of roma children, on which i think the catania report focuses a great deal, we must really thank the moroccan minister of the interior who, by carrying out a thorough investigation into the situation of roma children, has discovered a reality that perhaps could have been discovered in the past. fifty percent of roma children in these camps, left to fend for themselves, are not in school and are not vaccinated. then we should also mention in the report the responsibility of roma families who send their children away from school, who send them to do illegal things and keep them in conditions that prevent them from being integrated. so it is good that governments like the italian government, in order to integrate, for example, roma children and immigrant children, provide for pathways that allow them to start learning our language through bridge classes. we say no to repatriation when there are problems in the countries of origin. but where do immigrants come from? it is not a point in this report, since all countries have critical situations. the principles of human rights must be applied with common sense, with european nationality, not on the basis of the ideology of those who lecture us on the defence of rights when they speak in the name of parties which have the hammer and sickle of communism in their symbol. what a fountain!
president of the council. - mr president, on the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, the catania report is timely. the wide range of subjects discussed, the strength of the proposals put forward, and your reactions to them, are all worthy of the crucial nature of the meeting we are having today. so i will try to answer the various questions that have been asked, trying to group the speeches together since many of them dealt with the same subjects. first of all, i would like to mention the question of social rights and extreme poverty which has been raised by many members, including mrs roure. of course, these economic, social and cultural rights are important. they are part of the second generation of human rights and are rights symbolised by the signing of the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights in 1966. you are right to stress the importance of enforcing these rights, which can be discredited if they are not enforced. so the european union and france are of course mobilized in the fight against extreme poverty. i would remind you that a special rapporteur has been created within the human rights council specifically to deal with these issues, with these rights. the development of guiding principles to strengthen the fight against extreme poverty at the united nations level is currently under way. finally, the european union and france in particular have taken initiatives which i think are interesting. the european union has thus promoted and supported the optional protocol to the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, which has just been adopted by the united nations general assembly, and has set up an individual complaints mechanism. but of course i agree with you that this is a long-term struggle, that as long as there is so much discrimination, so many poor people, so many unemployed people, so many problems with access to health care, of course we cannot be satisfied, but there is a constant effort to ensure that economic, social and cultural rights are applied, with the european union being at the forefront of promoting them. then there is the second topic that has been raised by many, and that is the issue of homosexuality. i would like to say that the initiative taken by france is very simple, and to repeat that we started from a finding, namely that there are today 90 countries in the world which criminalize homosexuality, 6 of which apply the death penalty. this means that men and women cannot freely choose to live according to their sexual identity, and they risk going to jail or being brought to court. so this is where we are in the area of fundamental law. it is not about opening up topics, although they are very interesting, on same-sex parenting or marriage, it is not about deciding through this initiative on social debates, it is about extending this fundamental right to the universal scale and this fundamental right is the right to live freely one's sexual identity, without risking being deprived of freedom. it is as simple as that, and i believe it is to the credit of the european union, of the member states of the european union - since many of us support this project - to bring this initiative to a conclusion tomorrow at the united nations. i hope that as many states as possible will join us because, in matters of fundamental rights, i believe there is no debate possible, since it is simply a question of humanity and freedom. let us now turn to another subject, the roma issue, and more generally the issue of migration, which has been raised by several of you. as regards the roma, the commission presented a report in the context of its communication of 2 july, which lists existing policies and instruments, contributes to the inclusion of the roma population and advocates the more systematic use of these policies and instruments to promote the integration of the roma. on 16 september, the french presidency took part in the first european summit on the roma in brussels, as you know, which was organised by the european commission with the support of the soros foundation. the summit brought together representatives of the european institutions and the member states and generated a strong mobilisation of civil society. my colleague in the french government, the minister for housing and the city, and the representative of the minister for foreign affairs welcomed the exceptional mobilisation of europeans from all walks of life around this summit. this summit was important because the roma issue is of common interest to europeans and calls for a proactive policy on the part of each member state, adapted of course to national specificities. a voluntary policy of this kind at national level must in particular aim at making the roma population's access to education, employment, health and housing effective, and it is clear that coordination between the member states of the union is absolutely decisive, absolutely important. at the initiative of the french presidency, several ideas have made it possible to pursue the reflection in a concrete way. a second equality summit was held in paris on 29 and 30 september 2008. a round table on poverty and exclusion was held on 15 and 16 october 2008 in marseille with two of my colleagues from the government. in short, the situation of the roma is receiving considerable attention from the member states of the european union, and i believe that our efforts in this regard will continue even after the french presidency of the european union, i am sure, and we are fully engaged on this issue. you can count on it. so, with regard to the wider issue of migrants, i would like to mention, at the end of the french presidency of the european union, the success of the european pact on immigration and asylum. for the first time, with this pact, the european union or the member states of the european union will share objectives, will have a common position on this issue, in particular around the creation of an asylum office, around the objective of biometric visas, around the necessary action of the european union when there is too much pressure on a state, especially in the field of immigration. the pact, i remind you, adopted by the european council in october, proposes political commitments such as the organisation of legal immigration taking into account needs and capacities, the joint fight against irregular immigration, the strengthening of the effectiveness of border controls and the creation of a europe of asylum. in short, all these elements of the pact on immigration and asylum are, i think, likely to enable the european union to have a common strategy in this area, and perhaps through this common strategy to implement a genuine policy on legal immigration, together with the rights attached to it. i would now like to answer a question, a question, a remark concerning guantanamo and the consequences of the closure of guantanamo, to tell you that the european union has said many times that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with the rule of law, that is to say, in accordance with human rights, international humanitarian law and international refugee law. we also said that there can be no legal vacuum for any number of prisoners and that the existence of secret prisons is unacceptable. our position has not changed, and all this is based on our conviction that democratic societies can only confront terrorism in the long term if they remain true to their own values. and the european union believes that the united states should therefore take steps to close guantanamo as soon as possible. we are therefore in constant dialogue with the american administration on this issue. a final point, i believe, has been raised by several of you, ladies and gentlemen, i am thinking of the question of human rights here in europe, and in particular the role of the council of europe. i would like to begin by welcoming the role of the council of europe in the defence and promotion of fundamental rights. i think that the council of europe, since its inception, has done a great job in this area, particularly the european court of human rights. there are already mechanisms in place to monitor human rights in the member states, and i think that through these mechanisms we can avoid double standards and actually sweep the floor, since the council of europe and its legal instrument, the european court of human rights, are the driving force behind the reminder to the member states of the union and beyond - since the council of europe has more members than the european union - to remind the member states of their duty, to point out shortcomings and to ask them to remedy them. the council of europe is therefore an essential instrument, an essential organisation in the defence and promotion of human rights. so, at the same time, there is indeed the fundamental rights agency which also deals with human rights in the member states and which has been mentioned in various reports which have appeared in recent times. but the agency focuses on the human rights situation in the member states when they are simply implementing community law. so i think there can be a modus vivendi between these two organizations, knowing that the scope of each organization is limited to certain areas. the council of europe is not a body of the council of europe, but a body of the european union. the regulation establishing the agency expressly provides, for example, that the agency should cooperate closely with the council of europe. this cooperation should avoid any overlap, and here i continue to quote the texts, 'this cooperation should avoid any overlap between the activities of the agency and those of the council of europe'. it is therefore important that the fundamental rights agency and the institutions of the council of europe seek complementarity in their work and in the bodies involved. this is why, of course, the agency is constantly concerned with working within its own sphere of competence, while being complementary to the work of the council of europe. i think i have answered all the points you have raised, ladies and gentlemen, in a summary, leaving the european commissioner to answer the questions which concern him and on which he was asked.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the presidency has answered questions, so i will try to be brief. i would first like to welcome what martine roure said at the beginning of our debate, namely that the charter of fundamental rights has succeeded in uniting social rights and civil rights. this is the positive contribution, it seems to me, of this charter which we will - we hope - see incorporated into european law. it's really the link between civil rights and social rights. i would like to answer a few questions about minorities. we do not have specific powers to deal with minority rights in the member states, but we can fight discrimination against persons belonging to a minority. personal discrimination is part of our anti-discrimination campaign. on the roma - i think the presidency has answered - i would like to remind you that we held the roma summit on 16 september. i myself had the opportunity to conclude this summit and i must also tell you that we, together with my colleague vladimir špidla, make discrimination against roma children a priority. this discrimination is totally unacceptable, but europe has been slow to deal with these problems. the member states have major responsibilities in this area and have been slow to address them. it is true that today we will try to use all the means at our disposal to really stimulate the integration of the roma community. that said, we are also very concerned that our strategy is not based on an exclusively ethnic approach to the roma. such an approach would be counterproductive and would negate the benefits of dealing horizontally with the roma issue in all eu policies. i also come to the question of sex differentiation. i honestly believe that the president's answer is quite correct. it is a duty of tolerance to respect and enforce this sexual differentiation. it is clear that there is a text on discrimination on this point, but we must enforce it. i would also like to say that the commission does not intend to take positions on behalf of the member states on the organization of family law. we already have difficulties in - you know - having rules about divorce. we cannot go into a field that is left to unanimity. i would add that, nevertheless, the law on the free movement of persons obliges member states to recognise certain ties which are entered into in another member state. i am merely repeating european law. i would like to say in conclusion that what i think is most important - what president deprez was saying is right - is that fears should not be our guide. it must be admitted that since the attacks of 11 september there has been a fear of terrorism which has at times led to a loss of sight of the protection of rights, individual freedoms and privacy, and i believe that this balance must be carefully safeguarded. the fight against terrorism will not be fought effectively by ignoring fundamental rights, human rights and privacy. i think we really need to get to that. and then, in conclusion, i would say that in the field of fundamental rights we do not only have to draw up texts but also to ensure that they are applied. the duty of vigilance is imperative. you can be sure that, as far as the commission and your commissioner for justice, freedom and security are concerned, i will personally ensure that the application of european law is really, at all levels, the object of our vigilance.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner barrot and mrs yade for their words of support for my report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mrs gál, mr roure, mr guardans and mrs ždanoka, for their active contribution to the report, to the composition of this report. i think the questions that have been raised are very interesting, and i would like to focus in particular on a point raised by commissioner barrot. at a time when the economic crisis is worsening, we must prevent a real war in the european union between the poor, between citizens discriminated against because of their social conditions and citizens discriminated against because of their living conditions, their expectations, perhaps because of the fact that they are coming to the european union and are being welcomed in the best possible way. it is true that this crisis is likely to exacerbate phenomena of racism and xenophobia, and i would like to say to mr brejc that we have analysed very carefully the report of the agency for fundamental rights and previously the report of the european observatory on racism and xenophobia, and we have found that in recent years acts of racism and xenophobia have increased exponentially in the european union. we are therefore very concerned about what is happening and we think that we must encourage processes in which the promotion and protection of fundamental rights play an active role and become the most effective link in the construction of a europe of peace, a europe committed to promoting intercultural dialogue and a europe free from barbarism. i believe that in this way, with this report, we can help to improve the role of the european union on the international scene. i will not dwell on other requests that have come up in the debate, some of which do not deserve a reaction from me, and i have greatly appreciated the interlocutory dialogue that has taken place and the proposals that have come from many colleagues who have actively participated in the debate.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the council on the council's approach to the revision of the olaf regulation, by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control (o-0116/2008 - b6-0492/2008).
i have received a motion for a resolution1 pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 december 2008. 1 see minutes of the sitting. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the two present council and parliament recommendations are intended to provide a strong impetus for continuous improvement of vocational training throughout europe through concerted planning, vigorous implementation, evaluation and review. this requires greater transparency between the different vocational training systems, to allow for the comparability and mutual recognition of professional qualifications and to ensure better transparency. it's about a culture of continuous quality improvement. better education is more than a title, more than a door to the labour market, more than a contribution to improving the competitiveness of employers and workers. i am disturbed by the way human capital is so often referred to as if it were merely a factor of production. the importance of vocational training varies widely across the 27 member states. we do not need bureaucratic harmonization of regulations, nor do we need to be run from brussels, as mr takkula has just said. but we are well advised to apply pressure, at least gentle pressure, so that the best models and standards are gradually adopted in all eu countries. right away, i would say, and not in the distant future. we can and should learn from each other. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of vocational training. i thank both mr andersson and mr mann for their reports.
i think we should try to take stock of the failed activities of frontex over the last three years and we would find that there has been a lot of propaganda. a little over 30 joint border operations, an increase in deaths at sea in the last three years and the vast majority of resources, which unfortunately continue to increase, are being allocated to protecting maritime borders, despite the fact that frontex itself tells us that only 15% of irregular immigrants arrive in the european union by sea, let us call them irregular immigrants. i know that i can count on commissioner barrot's support on this point and we must avoid calling them illegal immigrants any longer. we have also seen how firearms can be used indiscriminately and arbitrarily, and we saw this in a joint operation off lampedusa in september. so, although some of our points have been taken up by the moreno sánchez report, i insist on these criticisms because i am quite confident that this parliament can change its mind soon on frontex. i was very much alone a while ago when i argued that the mandate of frontex should be changed to give priority to rescue at sea. tomorrow this will finally be the general view of this parliament. i continue to be critical of frontex because i think that the agency's activities are not respectful of the rights of asylum seekers. the rejection of frontiers is a reactionary utopia, and i believe that it is very difficult to curb the natural need for free movement of men and women. today, frontex is the symbol of fortress europe and a concrete instrument for the militarization of our borders.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all those who have worked with me on the drafting of this report, the shadows, beyond the positions which each political group will take tomorrow in voting on this report. the fight against counterfeiting is first and foremost a tool to support the competitiveness of the european system, it is fully in line with the fundamental reasons for the lisbon strategy and i believe that it should also be considered in its legal and criminal implications in this globalised world. the oecd, in a 2005 report, tells us that about 150 billion euros of counterfeit goods are traded around the world, not counting what is totally domestic counterfeiting and not counting online piracy. some observers say that it is about 500 billion euros in real money, in counterfeiting business. a barrier, therefore, in its infringement of trademark rights, patents, intellectual property rights, of those which are the strong reasons for our industry, our capacity for innovation, our capacity for creativity. this requires more coordinated targeted action, greater attention to relations with the regions of the world and, i believe, a different approach to the relationship between the community institutions and the member states. this report has tried to focus - as an institutional duty coming from the committee on international trade - on the external aspects of counterfeiting, but the link between the external aspects and the internal aspects of counterfeiting in europe - in this europe which remains the largest market in the world, the second importer in the world - is quite clear. in conclusion, we must reaffirm some of the basic principles of the fight against counterfeiting: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must also focus on the harmonization of civil and criminal rules in our internal law, and on strengthening within the world trade organization the instruments which the world trade organization has already given itself. it is clear that perhaps more frequent recourse to the world trade organisation to resolve certain problems relating to disputes that have arisen helps to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting, just as we believe that the fact that third countries outside the european union declare themselves to be in some way willing to act as a bridge for the entry of these products into europe, but also for the circulation of products in the world, should be penalized. we need stronger protection of intellectual property, a stronger capacity to defend ourselves within the world's large geopolitical areas, including the large states that face the world market, and that is why we are looking with great interest at acta, that is to say, a large international agreement within a multilateral framework, but which does not deny the usefulness of a bilateral framework between the united states, japan, europe, which also has room for brazil, india, china and the other large trading regions of the world, with a twofold focus, on the one hand, on transparency, on respect for civil and political rights, respect for privacy, while at the same time strengthening within a framework of full respect for those fundamental rights, also reasons for trade which are also reasons for us, and therefore closely linked to the development and freedom of our states within the union and also within the union itself, as a political subject in the world. i believe that we must act on consumer education, on the harmonization of criminal law, on the intensification of controls, on the use of pressure instruments too. we have the system of generalised preferences with regard to certain developing countries and we must ensure that this system is strengthened, but at the same time that it is also used to counter the bridging of these counterfeit goods by certain countries. the report therefore seeks to create a unified framework between the great reasons for freedom, the great reasons for freedom of trade, civil liberties, political freedoms and development, and to punish and tackle this phenomenon which is today creating enormous difficulties for the competitive system of the european union. we would certainly have hoped for more, in the sense that there are some issues that have been left in the background, such as the creation of an observatory and the provision of traceability rules in this report, which did not find majority support. we believe, however, that we have made a major contribution to the commission and the council, and especially to the commission, in defining in the future a comprehensive review of the rules which protect europe from this negative phenomenon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the french presidency, commissioner barrot and all the rapporteurs, because technological development is advancing inexorably and justice could not escape this. the introduction of information and communication technologies in the administration of justice offers, i believe, possibilities for solutions, improving the functioning of justice and thus helping to streamline and streamline procedures and thus reduce costs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. so that e-justice aims to develop the use of new information technologies in justice is fundamental, all the more so if we see it in the light of the almost ten million european citizens who are already affected by a cross-border civil procedure and it is a proportion that is likely to increase. however, the benefits for the judiciary must also be considered alongside the citizens, and the procedures in the field of judicial and criminal cooperation should not be forgotten. as i have already experienced as rapporteur of the ecris report, in addition to this opinion, the potential scope of e-justice is wide and is destined to evolve in line with the progress of the european judicial area and technological developments. i am therefore pleased that commissioner barrot recently announced that the portal will be operational by the end of 2009. i would like to conclude with the hope that justice will finally be achieved in our europe and that the responsibility of the actors will finally be equal. it is all too often the case, for example in my country, that the accused pays a very high price and ends the tortured judicial process with acquittal. in italy there is no civil liability for judicial errors and i believe this is a serious social injustice which should be remedied. i hope that the european area of justice will help to remedy this great injustice sooner or later. i would like to thank the french presidency again for its commitment to these issues and my colleague mrs wallis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot speak for all of you, but i hope that the non-attached group agrees that the common area of justice is an undeniable advantage for the citizens of the union and that it will therefore support the initiative in this respect. ladies and gentlemen, we are more or less the same as we were a few minutes ago, and i do not want to be redundant or repetitive, and so rather than repeating the summarizations already made, i think it is more useful to wish all of us, and above all our europe and the many citizens of the union who feel that their quality of life is at stake, a new year of prosperity and certainly of justice.
i am not in the habit of using the democratic instrument of explanations of vote, but i am doing so for the first time today on behalf of my group. i am sorry to say that we voted against a report which i myself, as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and as a member of the committee on development, helped to draw up. this is a very good report and i thank deva and the committee on development very much for the work they have done. in fact, we agree with much of the text: integrate conflict analysis into cooperation, support for civil and local society, combating the proliferation of small arms, the need for codes of conduct for soldiers or police, references to reproductive health, transparency in the use of natural resources and support for refugees. in particular, there is a great deal of mainstreaming on the relationship and gender policies. then why vote against it? it is simple, because in some parts of it it tries to include the military component in development aid. this parliament, the committee on development, the mitchell report, have actually said very clearly in introducing the regulation and the ida that development funds must not be used to finance military expenditure. so not only that, but our parliament has also made sure that in the country strategy papers they do not take away development resources for security operations. so why these contradictions between our different resolutions? the development funds should be used for development, education, health, agriculture, local communities and women's organizations. the resources of cooperation are too few to defeat poverty, injustice and even to make peace, so no mixing with the military.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mrs monica maria iacob-ridzi on the european action plan for labour mobility (2007-2010). the desire to create a genuine european labour market requires the adaptation of national legislation and the elimination of the bureaucratic procedures which sometimes discourage the mobility of workers. the union has a key role to play in harmonising national social security systems and the transferability of supplementary pension rights. it is also important that efforts are made to increase the level of information for citizens, not only through the improvement of the eures portal but also through european information campaigns.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen,i am voting in favour of the report by mrs iacob-ridzi on the european plan for labour mobility for the period 2007-2010. i agree that professional mobility between the member states of the union has made a positive contribution to european integration: the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has recently launched a new programme for the promotion of employment in the european union. at this point, an attempt should be made to improve the situation at the legislative, administrative, fiscal and social levels by removing the bureaucratic obstacles in these fields. however, it is always worth remembering that the european union's action cannot ignore the socioeconomic differences between the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs novak on lifelong learning for knowledge, creativity and innovation and, in particular, the implementation of the 'education and training 2010' work programme. i join her in stressing that action in the field of education and training deserves systematic support from the european union through targeted policies, especially in the critical areas which, according to the communication presented in 2007 by the european commission, require improvement, such as lifelong learning, including adulthood, public spending and private investment in education, school dropout, which is still too high at secondary school level, and the relevance of education to the labour market. i would also like to stress that training and education, research, innovation and knowledge transfer are fundamental to the europe of today and tomorrow and must therefore be the subject of joint efforts at national and community level.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mr deva on the development prospects for peacebuilding and nation building in post-conflict situations, which focuses on the responsibilities of the international community towards states or local groups involved in conflict. i am pleased that the amendments proposed by the pse have led to a substantial improvement in the proposal, with reference to the need for greater coordination between peacebuilding, humanitarian aid and development activities in countries emerging from conflict. i would like to emphasize the situation of children in conflict zones, particularly those who have lost one or both parents. moreover, hospitals and schools are often the targets of attacks by the forces in conflict. we must work to help children overcome post-conflict trauma, through cooperation with unicef, which is already present in many at-risk areas around the world, to ensure that children have a proper education and a better future.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs deva on the prospects for development in the context of peace and the consolidation of the state in the aftermath of conflicts. the colleague gives a good description of what should be the ideal transition from a post-conflict situation to one of normalization of social and economic life. i think that this must be borne in mind in the resolution of the too numerous and violent conflicts within countries, especially with regard to the role of the european community and the international community. i agree with my colleague that the path to conflict resolution is easy to trace and difficult to follow. this does not, however, change the fact that action must be directed at least by the european union towards providing serious support to countries in difficulty and be totally free from hypocritical and complacent positions.
