rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - i would like to congratulate jörg chatzmarck on the preparation of this report. the automotive industry is indeed one of the most important. it employs 2.3 million people directly and another 10-12 million in the supporting sectors. this represents 7% of all those employed in the manufacturing sector in the community. member states must take care in advance of and prepare for people who may lose their jobs as a result of structural change. we're dealing with problems now. we must ensure that community funds allocated to firms that have restructured go directly to the workers. the global fund is particularly important for those who want to start their own business. the human factor is at the heart of the impending change and we have a duty to look after the citizens of the community, to protect them against unemployment and to make effective use of social guarantees. it's the only way to gain people's trust.
i would like to point out that we talk too much about the various shortcomings of the internal market and too little about the enormous advantages that the development of the internal market brings us. this document is important in that it gives companies operating in the common market the advantage of increasing their productivity. but there is another aspect that should not be overlooked. i represent a country where most companies are owned by european companies, not national ones. and sometimes we have a very difficult time managing our economy from a macroeconomic perspective because corporate strategies obscure national economic goals like fiscal balance and so on. so here we have to find the perfect compromise between the benefits of the development of the internal market and macroeconomic stability. i would like to stress once again to the commissioner the need to coordinate his policies with economic matters and with mr almunia.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr stockmann, whom i thank for all his work, i should like to briefly present to you the proposal for a directive on airport charges. the proposal for a directive aims above all to transpose into community law the principles which the member states have already approved in the context of the organization of international civil aviation: non-discrimination, transparency, consultation. the framework drawn up on this basis by the directive will make it possible to structure the dialogue between carriers and airports when determining and collecting charges. the directive will, for example, oblige airports to consult carriers before adopting a decision on charges. i did the same thing, consulting air transport and airports before drawing up this proposal, the principles of which were approved by both sides. the directive also introduces the concept of an independent national supervisory body. this body will play a key role. it will ensure that the basic principles i have just mentioned are respected. the objectives of this proposal, for which mr stockmann is rapporteur, are as follows. before we get to the debate, i should like to thank your rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism for their support of the commission's proposal. there you go, mr president. i think this is a fairly balanced proposal and as mr stockmann has just said, we certainly have to be very, very careful about how this directive is applied in order to facilitate better cooperation between airlines and airports. thank you, and i will listen very carefully to the speakers who have registered.
for the alde group i would like to welcome the work of mr stockmann, who has repeatedly demonstrated tolerance and competence in dealing with rather controversial proposals. this future directive is quite specific and does not have the usual content. we all know that most airports operate under natural monopoly conditions and inevitably encounter conflicts of interest which can affect the users, the airlines. we all therefore understand that regulation is necessary in this area, but there is also a risk that regulation will not have the opposite effect - that the increased costs and charges may reflect the prices of services provided by airports and thus turn the other cheek for the airlines themselves. from the very first meetings with stakeholders, the question arises whether all airports, and if not all, which and how many of them should be regulated. i am in favour of as little regulation or state interference as possible, as a member of the liberal group, especially since everyone i have spoken to has pointed out that in the european community some 25 airports are abusing or seeking to abuse their monopoly rights. so my proposal was to regulate around that number. however, as a result of the compromise, we are in favour of the majority position, as well as the other proposals and compromises considered.
the european commission's proposed directive ensures cooperation between airport managing authorities and users, and prevents large airports from ignoring customer interests and taking a monopoly position on the market. that is why i want to support this report as a member of the committee on regional development. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 and the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2005 was signed on the same day. the document presented reduces the risk of monopolistic behaviour of large airports and will thus mitigate the environmental, infrastructural or transport problems of large airports and the metropolitan areas adjacent to them. this will allow the development of regional airports to be accelerated and will ensure the social and economic development of regions in different countries. the decoupling of freight and passenger flows is a key element in effective regional development. i therefore urge once again that mr stockmann's report be supported.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, the text which has been tabled before you today is the latest regulation amending regulation 1408/71. this is the well-known regulation on the coordination of social security systems. this regulation has been the basis for coordination between national social security systems for more than 30 years. in recent years, an effort has been made to modernise and simplify this regulation and its implementing regulation. parliament has already adopted the new regulation 883/2004, and the other texts required for its implementation are already being negotiated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. pending the entry into force of these new legislation, it is necessary to update the validity of regulation 1408/71. that is why this new technical update is being presented to you today. it concerns only the text of the annexes to the regulation and is intended to take account of changes in national legislation. it is important that this text be adopted without delay in order to update regulation 1408/71 and to ensure legal certainty and respect for the rights of citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ory, in particular for the cooperation between our two institutions. as he made clear in his report, the adoption of this act at first reading will allow its rapid adoption. the amendments, which incorporate the technical changes made in the council, were drawn up in this spirit. on the contrary, it has not included at this stage the discussions which could better have been held in the context of the examination of the implementing regulation, for which mrs lambert is rapporteur, or of the text of the annexes, in particular annex 11, for which mrs bozkurt is rapporteur. some would like to take the opportunity of this report to address broader issues, such as cross-border health services. although the interest in these issues is obvious, i do not think it appropriate to consider them in the context of this technical update. the limited but realistic approach to technical updating is more effective in safeguarding the rights of citizens. i would like to thank mr ory in particular for this. the commission supports amendments nos 1 to 6, 9 and 11, which bring the original text into line with the general approach adopted by the council, and amendments nos 7 and 8, which deal with a specific problem which has recently arisen in one member state, the netherlands, following the entry into force of the reform of sickness insurance. the commission, on the other hand, is not in favour of amendment no 10. the inaccuracy of the wording of this amendment does not allow the specific situations it seeks to regulate to be dealt with properly. the amendment calls into question the priority rules in the area of family benefits. such an amendment would have legal and economic consequences far beyond the member state concerned. i thank you for your attention and i congratulate the rapporteur again on his contribution and his very good cooperation.
for the alde group the universal declaration of human rights guarantees citizens freedom of movement and residence. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union guarantees freedom of choice of profession and the right to work. however, we know that in community practice there are still many obstacles to the full enjoyment of these rights by its citizens. since 1971, the regulation under discussion has been regarded as the basis for ensuring social protection for citizens moving from one member state to another. the regulation has been in force for more than 30 years, as mentioned above, and its provisions have been amended quite frequently to take account of changes in national legislation. however, this regulation lays down general principles to be followed by all national authorities, social security institutions and even courts in the application of their laws. this ensures that the application of different national laws does not prejudice people who exercise their right to move to other community countries. social protection systems vary widely from one country to another and the regulation, while constantly changing, does not aim to harmonise them but rather to generalise them. i am therefore pleased that this is the way to protect the most vulnerable people in the community, such as women, pensioners, the disabled and their families. i believe that this document helps to unite not only the community countries but also people. i therefore warmly urge you, dear colleagues, to vote for him.
i would like to welcome the emergence of this directive as a step in the right direction, but i would draw attention to article 16, in particular to the commissioner. in my country, the consumer does not pay any compensation if he repays the loan earlier. now, if you put this item in, the consumer would actually have to pay more. i find it hard to believe that this means consumer protection. of course, the article says there are enough legal safeguards that the consumer doesn't have to pay for them, but when it comes to legal safeguards, it's a lawyer's game, not a real economy. in the real economy, if consumers can be taxed, they will be taxed. i would therefore ask that attention be paid to the need to harmonize article 16 better, given that in many countries this tax does not exist at all.
we recognise that the rights of the child are part of the human rights that we are committed to respect under international and european treaties. the rights of the child are recognised in the european charter of fundamental rights. it should become an integral part of the reform treaty and be binding on all member states of the community. commissioner frattini, in your communication you say that the protection of children's rights within the union is not yet satisfactory. i think it's awful. nearly one in five children live in poverty. in lithuania, almost half of all families with one adult and dependent children are poor. we are not likely to have statistics on the number of children left without parents in the enlarged community, who have emigrated in search of work and have left their children without adequate care. we read with horror about the sexual and psychological abuse of children. we're gonna pick up a kid on the street, throw a nickel in his hand, beg for it. but more often than not, we do nothing because it's easier to turn away, close our eyes, say it's not my fault, it's someone else's fault. you, commissioner frattini, say that this is the responsibility of the member states and that you do not want to interfere in their affairs. brussels is interfering in many of the community's member states: we are concerned with regulating agriculture, the internal market, capital movements. we believe these are vital questions. i believe that our first concern must be the human being and, above all, the child. this is our future. i believe that it is the european union which must assume responsibility for the protection of human rights, and in particular the rights of children. i don't agree with a document that only cares, reminds, calls. i think we are needed here as much as we care for our people.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i should like to clarify that the responsibility for implementing community law correctly lies primarily with the member states. the commission has no powers under the treaty to substitute member states’ authorities in their planning activities and in their decisions, for example on whether or not to construct waste-disposal installations and where those installations will be. the role of the commission is that of monitoring the application of community law. where this is not satisfactory, as in the current case, the commission can launch infringement procedures, but the solutions must always be found and put in place by the member states. we are concerned that the waste situation in campania is worsening, despite the actions taken by the italian authorities in 2007. it is essential that the italian authorities, besides taking immediate measures to tackle the current crisis, intensify their efforts for putting in place a structure enabling the campania region to ensure long-term sustainable waste management that is fully in line with european waste legislation. i am convinced that, this time, crisis management must lead to a real turnaround in waste management policy in order to avoid further risks to human health and the environment. therefore, any action to be taken for the future will have to lead to an effectively implemented strategy focusing not only on establishing a sufficient network of waste-treatment facilities. it is of equal importance to provide the necessary structures for separate waste collection, recycling and the avoidance of waste, fully respecting the waste hierarchy within which the dumping of waste remains the least-desired option. any new waste-management plan in that sense must not remain on paper, as we have seen in the past, but needs to be strictly implemented. the present waste disaster could be taken as an opportunity to demonstrate italy’s capacity of turning the campania region into a best practice example of proper waste management, and other italian regions, such as the area of milan, have shown that this is possible. the commission, as the guardian of the treaty, will continue the infringement procedure against italy – started in june 2007 – for a breach of community waste legislation. it is ready to take further legal steps, should the current breaches of community legislation continue, using all available measures under the treaty, including the possibility of imposing fines under article 220 of the treaty. apart from this, however, my services are ready to assist italy in any manner deemed necessary and helpful for finding and implementing a long-term sustainable solution to the current waste-management problem. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the main objective of community legislation and policies in the field of medicinal products is to ensure that patients are provided with safe, effective and high-quality medicinal products, while taking into account their affordability and general availability. the question of the safety of medicinal products in the context of their marketing in the context of so-called parallel trade has been raised on more than one occasion in the past. this has led me to initiate an inquiry to clarify this issue in detail, examining all aspects of the distribution channels and in particular the issues related to counterfeit medicines and parallel trade. the study aims to analyse the current situation and develop policy options to close gaps, if necessary by amending the existing legislation. in this context, the potential links between parallel trade and the emergence of counterfeit medicines are also being investigated. i regret to inform you that the first part of the parallel trade investigation, which has already been completed, has shown that parallel trade poses significant risks to patient safety. this is due to several factors, including errors in repackaging or relabelling, ineffective product recalls, more complex distribution channels, supply disruptions and, finally, weak enforcement of applicable legislation. the commission is currently analysing the findings of the investigation with a view to developing a coherent strategy to address these security risks. the different policy options are examined in terms of their likely social, economic and environmental impact. given the importance of this issue for public health policy, the issue is a high priority for the commission. decisions on the next steps will be taken shortly. in addition, i would like to inform you that the pharmaforum provides a platform to facilitate the use and exchange of best practices in the field of pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. these issues are the responsibility of the member states, but the measures taken must be in accordance with community law. the work of the pharmaceutical forum, which brings together patient organisations, health professionals and industry leaders, as well as health ministers from all member states, can contribute to the important issue of affordable access to safe medicines.
vice-president of the commission. - i'm willing to do that. i would like to say to you, mr president, that i have already decided that the question of parallel trade in counterfeit medicines will be dealt with as a matter of priority. i have changed the work schedule of the directorate-general and we will be making legislative proposals later this year. i think that will be possible shortly after the summer break. as for your other question, i thank you for understanding that i cannot answer it without first examining it. i will arrange for this examination and you will receive the written reply you have requested in the next few days.
i wanted to ask you about the prices. in germany, the cost of anti-seizure drops is 21.5 times cheaper than the same medicines in lithuania. we make sure that all countries, including developing countries, have access to medicines. can we make sure that our citizens in the european union pay at least a similar price for the same medicines? can we do something here in europe?
member of the commission. − the commission is undertaking measures at different levels aimed at reducing increases in food prices. one initiative is to begin monitoring prices, which i mentioned earlier. this is one of the objectives of the consumer market scoreboard on which we are working and which i believe will be supported by the commission pretty soon. the commission has also proposed a number of measures within the framework of agricultural policy. a reduction of obligatory set-aside land, already in force for the 2008 crop season; an increase in milk quotas for the year 2008-2009 adopted by the commission and proposed to the council, if adopted, will be in force from 1 april 2008 onwards, and a reduction of import duties in the cereals sector to reduce increases in cereal prices and also in the future of the price of meat. this measure came into force from the beginning of january 2008. this is a kind of inventory of what we have done. but, through the consumer market scoreboard, one of the main topics of our investigations will be prices and part of this basket will be about food prices. so we will duly inform you; we will consult as to what the next step will be after the data monitoring and we can take action to see what is behind this – of course, hand in hand with the national authorities.
prices started to rise in all countries of the european union last summer. we then asked whether there were cartels. in my country, lithuania, it has been found that milk processors have agreed to raise prices. the meat sector is being investigated. are there any other european countries that have done this kind of research, are you aware of it? now, there's a new term, the end of cheap food. is this new term being used by the food industry and how can consumers protect themselves?
for the alde group lifelong learning is becoming increasingly important in modern society. i am pleased that the meaning and need for adult continuing education is increasingly being considered and recognised in all countries of the european union and in the main institutions. lithuanian experts in the field of adult education were also active in making suggestions for this communication. the government programme provides for the expansion of the provision of non-formal adult education services in municipal educational institutions, efforts to ensure that the buildings of adult education institutions, the learning environment are modern and attractive, and the centres are equipped with modern teaching facilities. i would also like to stress that progress towards qualitative change in adult education requires a more active voice of adult educators and their associations, which must be heard and supported by policy-makers. it is essential that the problems that exist are not only discussed but also properly addressed, as this will determine how adult education develops in the coming years. the situation of vulnerable groups in lithuania, and in particular the integration of disabled people, is a very relevant and pressing issue in this context. the possibility of adult education for young children in the after-work period is also still not resolved. often, parents simply cannot attend school because there is no one to take care of their young ones. lack of flexibility in the adult education system itself sometimes, in adult education programmes, people who are not yet 18 years old and want to continue their education after secondary school cannot do so because they are only allowed to do so from the age of 18. of course, the lack of funding is also a major problem. i would like to agree with president of the republic of lithuania valdis adamkas, who has said that more and more people in lithuania are beginning to realise that learning is not just a responsibility of the young. lifelong learning for our country, for all its people, is becoming a challenge that must be accepted today, because only by opening up opportunities and paths to science, in a rapidly changing world, will we be able to show that lithuania is creative, open to innovation and not afraid to pursue ambitious goals.
mr president, this oral question is a consequence of the debates in the committee on legal affairs on the immunity of mr tomczak. the immunity of mr tomczak was raised by parliament a few years ago. recently the committee on legal affairs received a request from mr tomczak to defend his immunity. the committee discussed this request and a draft decision has been prepared. nevertheless, the adoption of the final decision was postponed as the committee received information that, in the event of his immunity being waived, the legal consequences for members of the european parliament from poland and members of the polish parliament would be different. according to the polish act of 23 january 2004, a member of the european parliament from poland will lose his or her seat automatically in the event of criminal conviction. for members of the polish parliament this provision is not applicable. such a difference is in breach of european community law, by maintaining different legislation with regard to members of the national parliament and polish members of the european parliament. this discrepancy between polish and european community laws needs to be clarified. therefore, i fully support the formulation of an oral question to the commission. i hope mr frattini will use all his influence to aim to eliminate this discrepancy between polish and european community laws.
the chairman of the council. - i cannot serve you this moment, esteemed mrs. harkin, with more concrete, more specific initiatives. we've been focused on this, on implementing the resolutions that were passed. it may be appropriate to call or remind member states of that deadline at an appropriate time. but you are right, certainly the type of activities in other areas will offer opportunities for additional topics, for further integration of the issue of voluntary activities, also in an intergenerational sense, and one of these channels of activity is certainly intercultural dialogue. we will certainly take your comment into account in planning our activities over the next six months.
i wanted to ask about other tools for young people to help them break bad habits. we discussed in parliament the strategy drawn up by the european commission to combat the harm caused by alcohol. the damage is particularly severe for young people. what other measures besides volunteering could reduce this harm, could help young people to break bad habits? does slovenia have any experience?
the chairman of the council. - thank you for the additional question and thank you for your good wishes. firstly, we fully agree with the assessment that the black sea basin is a very important region from the point of view of the european union's energy policy and, above all, its external dimension, and secondly, the answer to your question as to whether it is possible to institutionalize relations with this area in the future is yes, it is possible. perhaps in a similar way as was done with the western balkan countries, with the energy community treaty, perhaps in some other way, but in any case the slovenian presidency has identified the black sea basin, the black sea area, the black sea synergy as one of the important priorities within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate slovenia on this day and to ask a question about this so-called north stream gas pipeline. as you know, this pipeline will connect russia with germany and some other european states; as you know, there are some problems concerning the environment, among others. how does the presidency evaluate this project?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs polfer, for her very precise analysis of the problems of such a sensitive region as the south caucasus and for the proposals and measures that she has put forward for us to consider today. the european union's policy in the south caucasus has traditionally focused on the energy and transport sectors in economic terms. i would like to emphasise more the importance of an effective trade policy in the european union's policy in this region, because energy projects do not always bring benefits to the country, helping to restructure the economy faster, develop business and reduce poverty. when we talk about effective european union policy, which is very important in the south caucasus region, i would like to emphasise two things. firstly, we are already awaiting the commission's feasibility study to assess the full extent of the free trade agreement between the european union and armenia and georgia, and we are also calling on the commission and the council to implement measures to ensure that the south caucasus countries benefit as much as possible from the generalised system of preferences.
madam president, the eu is able and willing to help strengthen stability and democracy and improve living standards in the black sea and south caucasus region. the involvement of large states such as turkey, ukraine and russia is important, although they all have a different status in terms of their relations with the eu. poland brings its potential and experience to this region, despite not being directly connected to it, because of its shared history with the baltic states. however, just when intensified dialogue and cooperation with our neighbours is badly needed, the eu has drawn down another curtain through some aspects of the expanded schengen area. for many eastern europeans, 1 january 2008 brought with it a four-fold price rise in visas for travel to neighbouring countries, thus drawing down a financial curtain in europe. i disagree with statements made by officials of the commission to the effect that our southern and eastern neighbours should be treated equally from this point of view. our eastern neighbours are on the same continent, and not long ago some of us lived in one country with them, with no borders. i look to my colleagues for support for the pse group’s amendment 10 to the black sea strategy report. we urge the council and commission to decrease visa fees to a more acceptable level for ordinary citizens of countries participating in the eu’s neighbourhood policy or having a strategic partnership with the eu.
mr president, i would like to know if anybody can give me an answer. during the parliamentarians’ visit to teheran, did they attend any public executions? especially those in which cranes of european production were used.
mr president, i am sorry my amendments are being moved in this special way because of technical problems. i ask for support in replacing one word. so ‘potential military use’ would become ‘potential military link’.
mr president, it is again very simple. the insertion of one word: ‘sincere cooperation’.
mr president, when we mention all forms of torture, i propose inserting ‘including extremely inhumane executions’ because these occur, particularly executions with torture.
mr president, this relates to existing text. the text already ‘calls for minorities to be able to exercise all rights granted by the iranian constitution’. but even rights according to their own constitution are not granted. so i propose the last part of the text should begin ‘urges the iranian authorities to act constitutionally and eliminate, in law and in practice, all forms of discrimination’. the rest would be unchanged. thus they should act according to their own constitution, which is not respected.
mr president, i agree to withdraw this oral amendment because it is complementary to the consensus that has already been agreed. paragraph 19 is about disregard by the council and commission of the ruling of the european court. it has already been agreed in a compromise, so i agree to withdraw it.
mr president, i apologise. a technical problem caused my amendments to appear in such a special way. i am not such an enfant terrible as to torture you here. but anyway, as they are tabled, i have to present them now. it is about the implementation of the additional protocol which iran was urged to implement at the earliest possible date. my proposal is to add ‘which is not yet the case’.
mr president, there is a very unpleasant use of cranes for public hangings, especially hangings including torture. so it is my proposal to insert after the words ‘often by public hanging’: ‘for which cranes provided by western companies are used’. we are not pleased by it. i imagine nobody is pleased at this.
mr president, this is an important amendment on which i ask for the attention of the house, because our own people and the citizens of the eu are endangered by some activities. so, a new recital: ‘whereas several eu member states are participants in an international action to build democracy in iraq and defend its people from terrorists trained and supplied also by outside powers, including iran, which means that servicemen from eu member states – citizens of the eu – are suffering losses and injuries caused by terrorist attacks to which iran is not unconnected’. please give your support.
rapporteur. − mr president, in april 2005 mr tomczak requested that the european parliament defend his immunity in criminal proceedings, but parliament decided, a year later, not to defend his immunity. on 21 may 2007, mr tomczak again requested that the european parliament defend his immunity. in the new request, mr tomczak presented three new arguments concerning the same case. the first argument: mr tomczak complains that the court of ostrów did not grant him access to the files of the case. however, after examination of his complaint, it was found that mr tomczak was granted access to the files when he visited the court himself. he even photographed at least one of the documents. the second argument: mr tomczak claims that the proceedings are not objective, as the supervisory judge made a request to the judge presiding in the case to deliver the judgment as soon as possible, even without the presence of the accused. however, this request was issued after mr tomczak had failed to appear at the court hearings on as many as 12 occasions. the third argument: mr tomczak alleges that the court of ostrów is prejudiced against his person. however, the fact, declared by mr tomczak, that the judge presiding in the case lives in the same town as the prosecutor against whom mr tomczak had previously filed charges does not in itself prevent that judge from acting objectively. in addition, mr tomczak has the opportunity to appeal to a higher court and to make a cassation complaint to the polish supreme court. the argument put forward by mr tomczak, who was a member of the polish parliament in 1999, that his national parliamentary immunity remained a formal obstacle to the criminal proceedings should be duly considered by the polish judicial authorities. the problematic legal consequence that, according to polish law, mr tomczak might lose his seat in this parliament has been noted by the committee on legal affairs, and its chairman put an oral question to the commission. it was answered on 14 january 2008 by commissioner frattini, who promised to address the polish authorities, with the aim of ensuring that polish law does not discriminate between members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians. after the debate with the commission, the committee on legal affairs took a decision not to recommend the defence of mr tomczak’s parliamentary immunity on the above grounds. it is clear that articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european communities are not applicable in the case of mr tomczak. his request should be treated as a request for a decision of the european parliament to ask for suspension of the proceedings against him, as, for example, is possible under article 105 of the polish constitution. following its established practice, parliament could decide to defend the immunity of one of its members if a suspicion existed that the prosecution was based on an intention to prejudice a member’s political activities (fumus persecutionis). there is no clear evidence of this kind in the case of mr tomczak. in the light of the above considerations, i recommend that the immunity of mr tomczak should not be defended.
rapporteur. − mr president, i think that the consequences of the issue of waiving immunity are not the same as waiving immunity. mr tomczak was expected and summoned to appear before a court 12 times, but he did not appear at court. all the procedural and substantive questions raised in connection with mr tomczak’s case, and especially the question of the alleged insulting language used against the police officers, should be resolved objectively by the polish judicial authorities. therefore, i would like to stress two points. the question of whether the immunity of mr tomczak was properly waived at the beginning of the proceedings, when he was a member of the polish parliament, is a question that can be verified only by the appropriate judicial authority in poland, in this case the district court in ostrów wielkopolski. there is always the possibility of appeal. secondly, the possibility of mr tomczak’s losing his seat in this parliament cannot be considered as a motive for the prosecution, as, at the time of the incident of 19 june 2004, mr tomczak was not a member of the european parliament, and the law applicable to national parliamentarians does not contain provisions for such consequences. on the basis of the above considerations, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should not defend the parliamentary immunity of mr tomczak.
the chairman of the council. − i am very pleased to be attending the european parliament's session on the launch of the next cycle of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the signing of the lisbon treaty marks the end of a period in which we have been very concerned with our internal, and sometimes political, form. europe is now much better equipped to open up to the world, and the lisbon strategy offers the tools to help europe shape global trends. there are at least four trends that mark this moment. when europe launched the lisbon strategy in 2000, we understood globalisation primarily as europe's competition with the us and japan. since then, important new players have emerged on the world stage, demanding a fresh look at what europe can contribute to this global world and where its real competitive advantages lie. we are witnessing a communication revolution, the internet, the world wide web, creativity and innovation are no longer confined to rigid institutional schemes. only once before in history have we witnessed a revolution in mass communication, and that was about 500 years ago, with the advent of cheap paper and printing, on which europe based its dominance. we are on the threshold of the third industrial revolution, which will result in a significant reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels and a transition to a low-carbon economy. in may 2007, your parliament adopted a declaration on the third industrial revolution and the hydrogen economy, demonstrating europe's support for leadership in this area. we're moving into a conceptual age, after the industrial age, where values, meaning, empathy, come to the fore. the common thread of these trends is the increasing importance of people's creative potential and their values. these are the ones that are very european in nature. europe can therefore have the ambition to co-design or even lead these four trends. the european development idea is framed by the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. after a thorough review in 2005, we see that the lisbon strategy is working. structural reforms have improved the foundations of the european economy, making it better able to cope with financial market crises and rising commodity prices, particularly oil and food. the world economy is navigating increasingly uncertain waters and it is important that europe stays on course and continues to implement reforms and modernise its economy and society. the commission did a good job in drawing up the lisbon package, which was published in december. the presidency of the european council, slovenia, has identified the lisbon strategy as one of the five priorities of its presidency. we are very pleased that the european parliament is being constructively involved in the broad debate in the next cycle. we have already exchanged views in the context of the econ meeting, the troika and the interparliamentary meeting. we are all doing our part to ensure that the spring european council in march will launch an ambitious new cycle of the lisbon strategy. the european council will endorse broad economic policy guidelines and adopt conclusions on employment policies. we had a lot of discussions about whether the broad guidelines needed to be changed, and in the end colleagues from most countries agreed that if we could improve some of the wording, then by opening the guidelines themselves we could trigger long-term coordination, slow down the transition to the new cycle, and the end result would be very similar to what we have now. the ecofin council unanimously decided that the broad guidelines for economic policies would not be amended. but the explanatory texts, the context in which we put these guidelines, are changing. the european council will adopt specific recommendations to member states on their progress in implementing the national reform programmes. it will invite the stakeholders, the council, the commission, the parliament to implement the community lisbon programme. it will pursue a number of key activities and objectives in four priority areas. these four areas express, first, europe's concern for the environment, second, europe's concern for man and his social position, third, the efforts to make europe more entrepreneurial and, fourth, the efforts to make europe more innovative and creative, on which everything else is based. let me briefly touch on each of these four areas. i put knowledge and innovation side by side with creativity. europe must turn its rich cultural tradition and ethical wealth into a competitive advantage for its products. we must continue to pursue the 3% target for r & d investment. knowledge must become the fifth freedom. we need a single knowledge area where access to knowledge is open, where we support open innovation and, of course, where knowledge is adequately protected by european patents and copyrights. the different european research and development policies and their coordination with national policies could be improved. europeans must become more enterprising. we lack highly innovative and creative small enterprises, and therefore special attention must be paid to the emergence and growth of smes and their access to knowledge and research infrastructure and to sources of capital funding. we need to deepen the internal market, particularly in the area of services and network industries, and to remove various hidden barriers. a strong and functioning internal market is also a much better defence against globalisation than the temptation of protectionism. the transparency of financial markets needs to be increased, legislation needs to be improved and administrative burdens reduced. europeans must maintain our concern and solidarity with the people. flexible security allows for a dynamic search for a balance between an economy that wants a functioning labour market and the security of people to find new jobs quickly. this should be accompanied by lifelong learning and other forms of support. we must make sure that young people finish school and find work as soon as possible. we need to encourage the elderly to stay active for as long as possible. and finally, we europeans care about nature, we care about the environment. europe must take the lead in what some call the third industrial revolution, the core of which is the shift towards a low-carbon economy. i'm sure it will pay off for its economy, as it will take the world's lead in the technologies of the future. political agreement on the energy-climate package is needed by the end of this year. ladies and gentlemen, we need a decisive start to the new cycle of the lisbon strategy to make europe a more dynamic, creative, knowledge-based, enterprising society that cares, cares for people and cares for the environment. we also need to consider as soon as possible the strategic framework for european development beyond 2010 and the possible convergence of the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy. as mark leonhard wrote, this century will not be the european century because europe would colonially command the whole world, nor because it would have the most powerful industry. but this century can become the european century because the world will be dominated by european values, by european creativity, the two elements that are essential to shaping global trends. european creativity is based on a splendid european cultural tradition. european values, how neighbours cooperate with each other, how we resolve disputes, how we care for nature and people, are becoming a model for the rest of the world. let us not forget this profoundly human starting point when we think about the economic and social future of our union, or the strategy for growth and jobs.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for the commission, this is now a debate on the future position of europe in the world. it is about our response to the economic, social and environmental challenges of our time. european integration, which today unites 27 countries and almost 500 million citizens, is our great strategic strength. we are no longer weakening ourselves by division, and so europe has become in every respect one of the most attractive regions in the world. the single market is the foundation of our prosperity and the single currency is a precious asset, both politically and economically. we are not at the mercy of the uncertainties of the times, the storms of globalisation. integration gives us the opportunity to shape the global age in our own way. but this global age will not be defined by just one country or continent. japan, the united states and the european union are being challenged by emerging countries such as china, india, russia and brazil, which are also vying for the top spot in economic and technological terms. we believe that this new age will bring us great opportunities and new possibilities. but only if we do not overlook the signs of the times and also see the risks with full clarity. in times of global mobility, the question of how secure are jobs in the european union and how can we guarantee more and better paid jobs in the future is the real social question of our time. i repeat: the social question of our time is whether we will have jobs of sufficient quantity and quality on a lasting basis. addressing this central issue is at the heart of the renewed lisbon strategy, our partnership for growth and jobs. this strategy is europe's response to globalisation. we have taken stock of the situation after three years and the results are clear. these were good years for growth and employment. many millions of jobs have been created, higher growth than in previous years. productivity has grown faster than in america for the first time. the necessary structural reforms have begun to pay off for the people. but there is no reason to rest on our laurels. the goal has not yet been reached. we have a long way to go and further reforms to make. you don't have to be a prophet to know that it's not stagnation but permanent change that defines our time. this is still a concern for many people, especially those who fear that they will not be able to keep up with these changes and become losers in globalization. this is another reason why it is important to bring our partnership for growth and jobs even further into society. we believe that we have found a strategy which is realistic and will deliver the results we hope for, unlike the lisbon strategy of 2000. the commission's proposal for the next three years is also about this. we believe the basic alignment is correct. but we also believe that we need to make some adjustments to some of the questions that are key to the future. for example, the social dimension of our partnership for growth and jobs must be further strengthened over the next three years. that, i think, will be the central question. education, training and skills must be improved. the only way we can meet change is by helping every person from early childhood to develop all their talents, to learn new things and to remain flexible throughout life. everyone has a right to that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need policies that strengthen employment and enable new beginnings at any age. and this is not just a task for politicians, it is also a task for european entrepreneurs and businesses. i say this very clearly, especially in the light of some recent events. entrepreneurs and companies who have not yet realised this will have to rethink their approach. good and motivated employees are the most valuable asset that can make the small but crucial difference in competition. we need to make more efforts to achieve the knowledge society. we are unfortunately far from our objective of spending 3% of european gdp on research in 2010, and i am very concerned that the gap is widening rather than narrowing. i am even more concerned about a new trend: european companies are not spending less on r & d than in the past, they are spending more, but they are not spending it in europe, they are spending it outside europe. the european research area must become a reality! if we cannot keep research and development in europe, we will not be able to keep jobs in europe. we know that we need to strengthen the single market further. we need to unlock the full entrepreneurial potential of the vast majority of our companies. this is the case for the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises, which employ two thirds of all workers. we've already got a lot going on, but we're gonna have to do a little more work on the small business act in june. it is also the imperative of the hour to push forward vigorously with the integration of energy and climate objectives into our growth and employment policies. we are committed to demonstrating that environmental challenges can be turned into economic opportunities and social progress. we need a strong european industry to take the lead, because we firmly believe that european leadership in energy efficiency, new technologies and the conservation of resources is not only good for the environment but also for jobs. environmentally friendly products and processes have a greater impact on the economy today than they did yesterday. a responsible climate policy does not rely on the deindustrialisation of europe, but on the capacity of the industrial base of europe, on industries that produce in an environmentally friendly way in europe and export environmental protection. we believe that we can do much better on this issue. this will require a major joint effort between the european union and the member states. we now have a reliable framework for this. we have a partnership based on dialogue and critical appraisal of what has been achieved, and it has worked. the integrated guidelines, which we adopted three years ago, provide a reliable framework for guiding reforms at european and national level. i am well aware that there are questions about our proposal not to touch the guidelines in the strict sense of the word. the commission has not proposed this out of dogmatism or out of a sense of entitlement. we didn't want a pack of crooks. we wanted to emphasize the continuity of the reform objective and the direction of reforms in the european union. but at the same time we have taken a very critical look at the situation and have clearly stated where the weaknesses of the past three years lie in order to draw lessons from them. we therefore propose the new emphases i have described, for example in the social and environmental dimensions, which have also been incorporated in the guidelines. we have also proposed a new community programme which, unlike its predecessor, is not a bunch of projects but a focused programme. it follows the general priorities of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. ladies and gentlemen, the commission's main concern remains growth and employment policy. for us, this policy is at the top of our priority list, because it is about more jobs, more prosperity and more protection of the environment. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. - madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs starkevičiūtė and all those who, together with her, in this house and in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in particular, have taken part in the preparation of her report, which i think is extraordinarily rich in analysis and suggestions for the future, for this new cycle of the lisbon strategy, for the next three years. looking back over the past three years, we agree with the analysis made in that report about the fruits being produced by the lisbon strategy in this new phase after the 2005 review. as has been said this afternoon, jobs are being created. a significant part of the jobs created in europe are related to reforms that are born of the lisbon strategy, to the way of looking at reforms in the labour market, and in other areas of economic activity, designed in the lisbon strategy and in the national reform programmes that were adopted three years ago now. it increases potential growth, although we would like it to increase more. however, it is extremely important that europe's capacity to grow under normal economic conditions is increased. we need this further growth to play a relevant role in a globalising world where new, extraordinarily dynamic players are emerging. it also improves the functioning of markets, removes obstacles for entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurs, for productive investment. reforms to improve the sustainability of social protection systems and public accounts have been introduced in many european countries and there has undoubtedly been increased awareness of the need for us to commit to the environment in our growth model. so lisbon is bearing fruit. the strategy for growth and jobs since 2005 is bearing fruit. it would be a mistake to change direction now. we therefore agree with the report we discussed this afternoon on the basic points: we must continue to move in the direction we have set. however, of course, we must take into account the changes in the environment - major changes in the energy and environmental environment, the need to make the fight against climate change our first priority, the new challenges, the experience and, of course, the economic situation, the economic moment we are experiencing in recent months. an environment that leads to an increase in uncertainty, to tensions in the financial markets, and that requires us in this more volatile, more uncertain, more difficult situation to accelerate the pace of reforms, to accelerate the degree of implementation, the speed of implementation of the lisbon strategy. we agree that this implementation should be carried out - as the integrated guidelines themselves indicate - in a framework of macroeconomic stability, in a framework that reinforces the sustainability of our public accounts, our welfare and social protection systems, environmental sustainability, and in a framework of trust and commitment of economic actors. we must take advantage of the room for manoeuvre which has been gained by the right reforms and the right policies in recent years, we must take advantage of the room for manoeuvre which the moment of uncertainty offers us by having improved the fiscal position of our economies in most of our countries. we can let the automatic stabilizers run their course in most of our economies now that growth is slower as a result of volatility in financial market tensions or the deep slowdown in the united states. we are better placed than in 2001 to deal with a significant slowdown in economic activity, and this is thanks to policies that are based on the guidelines embedded in our strategy. in the face of these tensions on the financial markets, when we compare the situation of the european economies with that of the united states, many of us have in recent weeks and months alluded to the advantage of the european economies because we have sound economic fundamentals. these sound economic foundations have been strengthened by the policies set out in these guidelines, both in terms of the functioning of economic and monetary union and the many structural reforms that are part of the lisbon strategy. in particular, there are some priorities for the near future which are also obvious and which are made clear in the analyses of mrs starkevičiūtė's report; it is a priority for us now to reinforce progress on financial integration. financial integration is an instrument in our hands to strengthen our capacity to cope with a situation such as the one we are experiencing. there are some initiatives, a roadmap, recently approved by the ecofin council. we must all help to ensure that these initiatives are put into practice as soon as possible at european level and we must ensure that europe speaks with one voice on those initiatives which must also be discussed and approved in a more global framework, in the international monetary fund or in the financial stability forum. i am sure that we will be able to work together to achieve this, that we will have the fruitful cooperation of this parliament, which must strengthen consensus on the basic aspects of our strategy and the messages so that economic and social actors can also actively participate in this process of reform, so that reforms are not something imposed but arise and are defined through social dialogue. we must cooperate fruitfully with the european institutions: the council, parliament and the commission so that not only the european institutions but also our member states, in their national reform programmes, develop and implement these objectives on which we agreed this evening.
, the rapporteur. - i would like to thank mr verheugen and mr almunia for their outline of the european union's lisbon strategy. but i always have a hard time understanding what the priorities of that strategy are. the commission document itself is almost 300 pages long. they are divided into separate chapters, each with a different priority. there are 24 guidelines under which the european union implements its economic policy and strategy. we are following the european commission and parliament has prepared three different resolutions on these 24 guidelines, and also in accordance with different procedures. i guess that means we're fighting bureaucracy. i would also like to thank the commission for stressing the need for continuity of reforms. i think so too. but life is changing, and we see it every day, especially in the face of globalization. and if we say that we need to change nothing but cosmetic changes, that hardly means that we are encouraging innovation or creativity, as the honourable members from slovenia said. i like the council of europe's position that the new strategy must create added value. however, i think that the position of parliament could be that we are in favour of continuing the reforms, but we want them to be consolidated and adapted to the new conditions. and the priority of the lisbon strategy must be one single citizen of the european union. if we are talking about how to achieve that well-being of the citizen of the european union, then, of course, there are various economic policy instruments. but they all have to work together. if we are talking about monetary policy, we should emphasize the independence of the european central bank. there are many different interests, there are many global challenges, and someone has to respond to that, especially when we have our own single currency, which is a zone of which perhaps not all countries are members. however, the european central bank's ability to counter this inflation is limited. inflationary pressures, global challenges that are being created outside the european union. this means that there must be other instruments to help the european bank to stand out. first of all, of course, is fiscal balance. but i would argue strongly against seeking fiscal balance by mechanically cutting costs. the most vulnerable are always the ones who suffer, and the ruler never cuts her own wages. we must first of all talk about consolidating the management bodies and reducing the costs of management. it's by re-dividing them into sectors that are meant for humans. the other thing that is also very relevant and that i would like to emphasise is the role of the financial sector. it's naive to say that we need to save the budget when we're afterwards spending billions to bail out the banks. the role of the financial sector must be reflected in the lisbon strategy, it must be defined and if there is no stable employment in the financial sector, we cannot ensure long-term economic stability. it's obvious to everyone today. but despite all the problems that the financial sector is facing today, to be honest, i don't see very many people who want to take these problems seriously in any way. until the next crisis, as they say. what can we do to help people and how can we help those citizens? first of all, we can, of course, reduce their labour costs, their cost of living, their work, their settlement, their adaptation to the challenges of their new life. scientists have repeatedly offered us various ways to address this, and my suggestion would be the same as the scientists' - we need to improve representation for small businesses and make finance more accessible to them.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr president, commissioner, mr almunia, mr verheugen, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. the lisbon strategy is a strategy for reform, for modernisation it needs the cooperation, support, ideas of all those we are dragging in the same direction, and i really thank you for your weighty comments. first, there was a general debate on whether the lisbon strategy was working, with members like jan andersson for example thinking it was working or not working, and there were quite a few of them. this reflects the range of political views within the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. mr harbour actually replied that the community lisbon programme is an excellent set of priorities. there have been many questions about this dilemma with the integrated guidelines, whether they are the answers to today's questions. as i said, we too have asked ourselves this question and have come to the conclusion that we must maintain the direction, the consistency and, above all, the pace of implementation of the lisbon strategy. i am glad that some groups in this house, members, have also been thinking along these lines. mr leinen, mr harbour, mrs herczogova has emphasized very strongly that we need action, not ideas, especially when optimism is being lost in european strategy. other good process ideas were mentioned, such as the exchange of best practices, the territorial dimension, how to actually extend the lisbon strategy from this community framework, from the framework of the member states, to perhaps some lower level, and of course the lisbon strategy also gets its global dimension. as regards research and development, you agree that this is what the future of europe really holds. i liked the idea of the member of parliament, herczog, that hearts and minds are needed, not just numbers. i understand that you support the fifth freedom, and indeed the related european patent. we take the warning about european talent seriously. they need to be given a good life in europe. 700,000 of europe's best engineers and researchers are abroad. we have to make sure they want to come back, because i hear seven out of 10 of them are staying in the united states. study abroad should be supported. on the business environment, some argue for the internal market, for non-protectionism, or that it is a functioning market that gives europe a competitive edge. i like the idea of entrepreneurial culture, the promotion of entrepreneurship, that starting a company or starting a new job is actually the best thing that anyone can do. the fact is, we have a lot of things to work on here. in particular, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, their access to finance, their access to research infrastructure. mrs. kauppi, mrs. starkevičiūtė also reported this. employment, or rather this whole social dimension, has been the subject of considerable debate. i would not agree that the lisbon strategy is neoliberal, on the contrary, europe's concern for people and the environment is actually two of the four essential pillars of the lisbon strategy. there was some discussion about flexicurity, mr goebbels and mrs vălean, but the fact is that if we do not introduce it, employers will, as someone has also pointed out, flee to other forms of employment which are very flexible but much less pleasant for the worker, because the economic environment is not even set up to promote the security that the flexible security system brings. the proposals for new indicators, including those linked to those of the oecd, on quality of life are interesting. the future debate will also have to be about how to measure the lisbon strategy. there's been a lot of talk about the environment. i think we are all aware that this has to become, as someone said, a win-win situation for europe. the challenge will be how to get the rest of the world to join our efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy, but we can certainly do that by setting an example. we have a great guy to talk to about financial markets and fiscal policy. i apologize for not noticing you at first and saying hello. so, in short, we're leaving richer for important messages. i thank mrs starkevičiūtė for her report, and mr lehne and mrs harms for the draft resolution. we've already looked into it. we'll be reviewing the final version very carefully. the opinions expressed in this parliament are different, but i think that their outcome is in line with the lisbon documents, or rather the whole package of documents. so i am confident that we are on the right track and that we will successfully launch a new cycle that will be able to respond to the challenges of our time, and that the message of the new cycle will not be just the smallest common denominator that we are able to agree on.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. let me give you a few very brief pointers. our strategy for growth and employment, also known as the lisbon agenda, is really nothing but an attempt to compensate as intelligently as possible for the fact that we do not have a common economic policy in the european union and that we are in the process of ratifying a new treaty and will not have a common economic policy on the basis of the new treaty. the request made by mr toubon was therefore well-intentioned, but unrealistic at the moment. we have no other way but to go in partnership to get the 27 to do what is necessary, together with the community institutions, to achieve our common objectives at member state and european level. is it really our aim to be the most dynamic, most competitive, best region in the world by 2010? as early as 2004, the council, parliament and the commission said: this lisbon target, which was set in 2000, will not be achieved. it's nothing new that we can't achieve that. we've known that since 2004. that is why we presented a completely revised strategy in 2005, which no longer includes this date. the growth and employment policies we have today should therefore not be measured against targets that were formulated in 2000 and that we know are not achievable. i'll give you my personal opinion. it doesn't matter to me that we're better than anyone at any given time. i believe that it is important that we are good enough as soon as possible to achieve the social objectives that we want to achieve together in europe. that means a high standard of living for all our citizens, a high level of social security for all our citizens, a high standard of living for the environment throughout europe and the realisation of our global responsibilities. these are our great social goals. to do that, we need a strong and stable economic base, and that is what this strategy is designed to achieve. i think mr rosati was right to ask about the deficits. if he reads the country reports and our recommendations carefully, he will see where we see the shortcomings and that we see them exactly where he has mentioned them. i want to give him the answer. why is lifelong learning not yet as much a reality in europe as it should be? why do we not have as much modern infrastructure as we should have all over europe? why are research and development, education and training not the focus they should be? well, simply because the financial priorities are now set differently in many member states and also at community level - as you all know - . if we all work together to change these priorities, that would be good. but that is only if - and i am not just saying this because the commission's macroeconomist and major stability politicians are sitting next to me - i am firmly convinced that we have a stable and solid macroeconomic framework. the first of these is the consolidation of public finances. without sound public finances in the individual member states, it will not be possible to set new priorities for investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i just want to give you a hint. these guidelines are not in themselves a political programme. the guidelines are not an action programme, but rather the philosophical, intellectual basis for the national reform programmes and the community's lisbon programme. i say that with full conviction. the guidelines, as they are formulated today, allow us to do everything that has been desired by various parties in this parliament in the practical implementation of the national reform programmes and the community's lisbon programme. we are happy to comply with the very specific request made by mr olle schmidt to mr almunia and myself to look into a specific case in sweden. i just want to say one thing: the commission fully supports a policy which also uses tax incentives for companies and entrepreneurs to create jobs. that's our policy. we will also shortly be making a proposal relating to reduced vat rates for service-intensive enterprises. joaquin and i don't know exactly what happened in sweden, but we'll take care of it. it seems to me that this is more a technical problem than a genuinely political one, but we are clarifying it and ensuring that the necessary dialogue is conducted.
member of the commission. - mr president, if i were asked to compare the economic situation today with that of three years ago, when the lisbon cycle began with the renewed strategy, i think we could put on the table more than enough data to say that we are better off today than we were three years ago. there are more jobs, there is more productivity, there are healthier tax positions, there are more sustainable social protection systems and there are many actions under way. but if i am asked as commissioner to draw the conclusion that nothing needs to be done, my answer is clearly that much needs to be done, that much needs to be done and that, given the current economic situation, with the financial strains, the pace needs to be accelerated. i said it at the beginning and i say it again. i would therefore not like anyone to get the impression that the commission and the commissioners think that we are very satisfied and that nothing more needs to be done. let us not confuse continuing to move in the same direction with doing nothing else. continuing in the same direction means that we must continue to do things in the community lisbon programme - which some of your honourable members have mentioned, and we thank you for that - in the member states and the regions, and in other bodies below national governments, as mr fernández said. and if, as a conclusion to the many interesting speeches i have heard this evening, i am asked to select three issues that are clearly priorities, first of all, i agree with many of you when you have spoken about the integration of financial services. it is a key issue for europe and for economic and monetary union, but not only for the countries of the euro area, but also for those who want to be in the euro area in the near future. the second key issue is climate change. i will not repeat what many of your honourable members have said. and the third issue is social inclusion, which is one of the integrated guidelines. we cannot tell citizens that we must face the challenges of globalisation, that we must be more competitive and that we must improve the functioning of our markets if our policies do not respond to greater social inclusion, which is also brought about by more competitive and more productive economies. if productivity does not increase, there will be no quality jobs, and if there are no quality jobs, if there are no career prospects, if there are no lifelong learning systems, there will be no possibility of having competitive economies. and that is, let us say, the link between the economic and the social that the lisbon strategy has had from the beginning, and which is more evident today than in 2005 or in 2000. finally, i agree with some of your honourable members - mrs berès and others - when they speak of the need for economic policy coordination. as mr verheugen said, there is no capacity to implement many of the reforms and policies of the lisbon strategy at european level. what is needed is better coordination of the economic policies of the member states, and europe has the instruments - the lisbon strategy, which is an exercise in coordinating economic policies - and certainly economic and monetary union. i am committed to discussing this with you in particular as from may, when the commission presents the report and the guidelines based on the analysis we are making of the first ten years of economic and monetary union.
the rapporteur. - i wanted to talk about coordination. there were a lot of different offers. and if we implemented all of these proposals, i think there would be a major economic crisis in the european union. so it would seem that the most important thing is to have accents that are properly composed. we cannot eliminate poverty and misery by 2010, as proposed in the draft lisbon resolution. we cannot stimulate demand across the european union because if we stimulate demand in new countries, we will have an economic crisis, we will have overheated economies. i mean, very often we don't see what's going on in the neighborhood. and scientists have already shown that the main problem with the european union is that we try to over-harmonize rather than appreciate these national characteristics. yet, to allow a person to express himself, he needs a favorable environment. and mr verheugen was right: economic policy in the european union is a policy of cooperation, not a policy of dictatorship. i came from a country in the soviet union that had a lot of indicators. we always had all the indicators, and the stores didn't have any. the indicators are not self-referential. i am also against the european social model being turned into a welfare sharing system, because in the next debate we will only be talking about migration policy. the whole world's gonna be coming to us for the benefits. we are talking about creating a social environment in europe where people can work, find their place and express themselves. and this is the ultimate goal of europe, and it is the meaning and the essence of the social model and of human life.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr özdemir for preparing this very comprehensive report. as chairwoman of the delegation for relations with the central asian countries, and in connection with this resolution, i would like to address a few issues which i consider important. firstly, central asia has an obvious growing importance for the european union and the world as a whole, no doubt owing to its rich energy resources. we have many shared interests in promoting security and tackling threats such as terrorism and drug-smuggling. i am glad that the european union’s strategy for a new partnership with central asia addresses those matters very firmly, as does as this resolution. this region occupies a crucial geostrategic position, particularly as it shares a border with afghanistan, china and russia. therefore, we must clearly define our objectives and priorities, bearing in mind this context. in 2010, kazakhstan will become the presiding country of the osce, which is responsible for ensuring democracy and fundamental human rights. i am pleased for my colleagues, but i worry about the people of kazakhstan, where the current elected parliament does not include a single opposition member. all the countries of central asia still have a long way to go on the road to economic and political reform and the building of democratic societies. the example of the former soviet republics, including my country, lithuania, shows that 17 years of independence is not long enough to fully achieve real change. however, we must deliver our overriding message, which is that europe will not seek material benefits at the expense of human values.
rapporteur. − mr president, we now have a text which says: ‘instructs its president to forward this resolution to the council and the commission’, and i would like to add the words ‘and the governments and parliaments of the member states’.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would just like to clarify the issue. if those amendments are rejected, then we need to delete points 2 and 3 in guideline 7, which i repeated in guideline 15. this also applies to the pse group amendment 13, and i would like to ask the groups to vote as i said, in order to avoid duplication of the text.
mr president, i would like to make two points. firstly, the most important thing is that the independence of kosovo was proclaimed after supervision of the situation there by the international community for a number of years, and the international community, after long deliberations, could not find a better solution to the problem than the independence of kosovo. therefore, following russian attempts to relate the situation of kosovo to some other regions of europe, like transnistria, south ossetia or abkhazia, it is not difficult to make this counter-argument dangerous or not suitable for moscow itself. would russia agree to withdraw from those territories and leave control of the ‘frozen conflicts’ areas of europe to the international community? if so, then we, the eu, would get a real chance to reach a long-awaited solution, and we should be interested in this. secondly, it is well known that some countries try to warm their hands above the embers of each fireplace of international instability. this time, russia, pretending to defend the interests of serbia, decided to play its own geopolitical game, pretending that, without its assent, no problem in the world would be solved. this position is not new or unexpected. but russia is not the most important player this time, as it does not have real power to angle events in a way which would not be acceptable for the west. for instance, in the future, kosovo’s attempts to join the united nations might not be easy, but russia cannot achieve any significant isolation of the state on the international stage because, when kosovo is recognised by a majority of eu member states, the united states and some other countries, the isolation will become meaningless. i salute the independence of kosovo and wish the kosovar people the best of luck in building their state.
mr president, the serbia of milošević – and even after him – followed the advice of its big brother, losing every time rather than taking a realistic stance and trying to find ways towards more amicable divorces, with the prospect of meeting again in europe. maybe it will happen now. one special remark to those worried about one-sided interpretations of international law, the integrity of states or the sovereignty of territories and peoples: we should understand and take into account the fact that a state which seeks to exterminate or expel all citizens belonging to a different ethnic population is killing not only them but, first of all, its own claim to sovereignty – sovereignty over mass graves. integrity of cemeteries is not a case to accept. and no parallels with the basque country, quebec or abkhazia should be accepted. neither madrid nor ottawa nor tbilisi is going to bomb and kill those people. russia is different. russia has also been denied by its own actions of repeated genocide and has no more right to sovereignty over survivors in chechnya but merely the medieval law of the fist.
the chairman of the council. - i am pleased to have the opportunity to speak to you about the human rights council. by including this item in its plenary, the european parliament confirms the importance which the european union as a whole attaches to the human rights council. it is the central, global body for the protection and promotion of human rights. the european union is a strong advocate of an effective human rights council. we have worked hard to ensure that its final form provides a solid basis for a rapid and effective response to serious human rights violations. as you know, last december the institutional package of the human rights council was finally adopted and now it is time for the council to really start working in full. the sixth council meeting, held in september and december last year, produced a number of important results which i would not wish to list here. our ambition is to continue this work at the seventh and eighth working sessions. the seventh session will be held next month and will be extremely busy. together with eight, which will take place during the first two weeks of june, it will have to deal with the renewal of as many as 25 mandates of the special rapporteurs, the regular reports of the special rapporteurs and individual human rights concerns in certain countries and by certain themes. the renewal of the mandates of the special rapporteurs for burma and myanmar, the democratic republic of the congo, the democratic people's republic of korea and somalia is of key importance for the european union for the seventh session of the human rights council. the european union will use all the opportunities offered by the council to draw attention to the worrying human rights situation elsewhere in the world. in this context, it will engage in interactive dialogues with individual special rapporteurs and with the high commissioner for human rights. interactive dialogues are an important new instrument of the council and the european union will continue to work towards consolidating them as one of the key tools offered by regular council meetings to address specific issues. as you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, slovenia has also included intercultural dialogue among its priorities in the context of its presidency of the council of the european union. we are therefore pleased that this theme will also receive appropriate attention at the seventh session of the human rights council. the invitation to the meeting of the alliance of civilizations special representative, mr. sampaiu, reinforces the awareness that the activities of the alliance of civilizations contribute to the strengthening of religious tolerance, which is also one of the priorities of the european union in the field of human rights. let me highlight another very important development within the human rights council. this is the beginning of a general periodic review. the european union attaches great importance to this, as this instrument should provide the possibility of reviewing the human rights situation in all member states of the united nations and under the same conditions. the member states of the european union, which will be subject to this mechanism as early as this spring, in april and may, are already making thorough preparations for this review. we will strive for maximum transparency and efficiency in this process. the way in which this periodic review is carried out will have a very important impact on the credibility of the human rights council as a whole.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome this opportunity to address parliament on the subject of the seventh session of the human rights council. let me start by putting the human rights council in what i believe to be the appropriate context. i have said this before, but it is important to keep it in mind: the council is a work in progress. this becomes clear when one looks at the past year and a half of its activities. despite a rocky start, with deep divisions over the lebanon crisis and a negotiating environment which continues to be difficult for the european union, important results have been achieved. i am thinking here, particularly, of the innovation of human rights pledges submitted by candidates for election; the ability to hold special sessions on urgent human rights situations, a far cry from the annual ritual of its predecessor, the commission on human rights; the development of ‘interactive dialogues’ with un special procedures, a very public means of focusing attention on human rights violations; and, finally, the adoption of the all-important institution-building package by consensus. the president of the council, ambasador costea, was in brussels last week to brief the council and parliament on preparations for the seventh session. he described the council as being ‘better than expected and worse than hoped for’. this may sound cynical, perhaps reflecting the reality of day-to-day un work, but i think it also sets the tone accurately. there is both good and bad in the council, but it is making progress and is, therefore, on the right path. priorities for the seventh session fall between addressing urgent human rights situations effectively – increasingly, the standard by which the council should be judged – and continuing to implement the institution-building reforms. on the human rights situation, effective follow-up to the special session on burma/myanmar is paramount. amongst other priorities, the human rights violations in sri lanka and kenya should also be addressed in this session. implementing the institutional reforms is, arguably, just as important, given their impact on the future success of the council. here, agreeing criteria for the election of members of the advisory committee and the transparent appointment of suitably qualified candidates for the special procedure mandates to be renewed are key concerns of the seventh session. finally, let me make a couple of comments on the universal periodic review, or the upr, as it is known. the president reported this week that the states under review in the april and may sessions are taking their responsibilities seriously. i hope so. the early sessions of the upr are likely to set the tone for the remainder. it is, therefore, vital that the eu member states being reviewed lead the way with frank critiques of their human rights records. this should be no beauty pageant. furthermore, i see an important role for the european union in the ‘outcome sessions’ of the upr. the upr is, more than anything else, about the international community cooperating with states under review to achieve concrete human rights improvements after a genuine self-analysis of failings and needs. the european commission and the member states should not be slow in offering technical assistance where it is merited in these outcome sessions. to do so would show our genuine commitment to the promotion of human rights in an important public setting.
mr president, parliament is sending a delegation to the seventh session of the united nations human rights council. the delegation will be mandated to voice parliament’s concerns on the hrc’s work and will report to the subcommittee on human rights during its visit. we see the seventh session of the hrc as a crucial one, because it will be the first to examine a large range of substantial issues under the new working methods stemming from the institution-building reforms package adopted in 2006 and 2007. the credibility of the hrc rests on the implementation of these reforms and mechanisms, and our goal is to strengthen the council’s ability to address human rights violations around the world, especially the most urgent ones. we pay tribute to the positive results of the hrc, in particular the developments in the implementation of the universal periodic review, and the review of special procedures, as well as to the positive achievements of the human rights council presidency. we welcome the participation of civil society and human rights defenders, as well as the special procedures, which are at the core of the un human rights machinery, and play a critical role, especially in the human rights council. at the same time, we condemn certain decisions of the human rights council, such as that not to renew the mandates of the special rapporteurs on belarus and cuba. taking into account the lessons of the past, we stress the importance of competitive elections being held in all regions, in order to provide real choice among un members. the reason is that, to our regret, some countries with problematic human rights records have so far been elected. once again, i call on the council, commission and member states to continue to press for the establishment of membership criteria for election to the united nations human rights council, including the issuing of permanent invitations for special procedures. speaking about eu involvement, we recognise the active role of the eu and its member states in the first year of work of the hrc. it is very important for the eu to speak with one voice when addressing human rights issues, and we call on the commission and council to adopt a common position so as to ensure eu member states automatically sign and ratify all international human rights instruments. last but not least, the eu should make more effective use of aid and political support to the countries in question so as to give them incentives to cooperate with the human rights council.
the chairman of the council. - the problems you have raised with mr medina ortega will not be solved in a short time. the situation in the field of economic development in africa, in the field of security, in the field of human welfare, these are problems of such dimensions that we can only think about their solutions in the long term. certainly, the migration pressure will be reduced in the long term only by improving living conditions on the african continent. of course, the summit could not provide all the answers, especially not the answers for short-term solutions. as i have already said, the summit was held in december, and at this time there are still discussions about what concrete measures will be needed to implement the agreements reached at the summit. i can say that the eu-africa summit has set up a kind of framework for all the discussions on migration management that have taken place in the various conferences between africa and the european union. tripoli, rabat and the other processes, all of them are now integrated into the eu-africa summit. this is the first achievement, the concentration of our efforts. let me just mention what is the essential feature of the european union's migration policy in relation to africa. above all, we are committed to the implementation of a global approach. this is an approach that includes combating illegal migration, better managing legal migration, preventing trafficking in human beings, better managing borders and, above all, developing countries that are the countries of origin of these migrations. only the latter will provide a long-term solution to the migratory pressure facing the european union. the measures i have just mentioned are at best short-term solutions, but they do not solve the fundamental problem you have mentioned, the problem of the situation in the countries of origin. and this condition is actually the engine, or the movement, of migration.
the chairman of the council. - the council's policy on returning illegal migrants is well known. this is one of the components of the european union's migration policy that we are pursuing with our african partners. development aid is also a specific aspect of migration policy, and must be considered, or even seen through the lens of migration policy, as it addresses the long-term problem of how to improve the situation in the countries of origin of migration. i would not like to speak frankly about directly conditioning development aid on these aspects. but the fact is that these are elements of a whole, an integrated migration policy, which must of course be linked and consolidated in the future.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for asking. i cannot agree that the council is passive on the issue of migration. on the contrary, the council has paid a great deal of attention recently, and especially last year, to migration. i should also mention that the european council is also expected to address the issue of migration at its december meeting this year, that is to say at the highest level, at the highest political level. the problem of migration is a real problem for the european union. i've already mentioned the solutions. solutions, the directions in which we must look for them. i can mention in particular the further strengthening of the frontex agency. this is another area where the council is involved. it's important to act on the demand side. we need to manage migration flows better. we need to reduce the brain drain from africa, because it perpetuates the bad situation in large parts of the continent. the council is working on the development of the concept of mobile partnerships, the concept of circular migration, and it is also pursuing this aim through missions to african countries. i should like to mention that there will be missions to nigeria and south africa during our presidency. in short, the council is active and willing to contribute. however, this is a field which falls within the third pillar, the area of justice and home affairs, where, in fact, lengthy consensus-building procedures have occasionally taken place. this may be one of the areas where, in the future, if the lisbon treaty is ratified and comes into force, decision-making will be easier and decisions will be taken more quickly.
the chairman of the council. − to mr moraes' question, the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management sets out the financial framework for the european union within the framework of 27 member states for the period 2007 to 2013. this interinstitutional agreement was adopted in may. it led to the adoption of the cohesion policy legislative package, which was adopted in july 2007. in short, no reallocation of funds was necessary after the enlargement of 1 january 2007.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for that additional question. i think i understand the original question better now. the original question was how enlargement would affect regional funding, and my answer was that it would not, because the funds had already been appropriately allocated. but your additional question certainly makes sense. the question is whether such phenomena should be addressed in the context of regional policy. wealthy regions probably should and can do more to eliminate pockets of poverty. they may also find it easier to do so than those who are less well-off. in short, the concept of regional policy, regional resources within the european union, must be taken into account. that doesn't change the fact that the problem you're pointing out is real.
i wanted to ask you, madam president, mr minister, do you have any information, any figures, on the impact of structural assistance on gdp growth in the new member states and perhaps in the old member states? in my country, lithuania, studies have shown that it is not structural support but the single market, the internal market, that has had the greatest impact on economic growth. do you have a number like that? thank you. thank you.
in congratulating the rapporteur on the excellent document she has produced, i would like to stress that its implementation or non-implementation will have a major impact on the future of the european union. after all, some small eu nations may be on the verge of extinction in 100 years. the wave of ageing, which reflects an improvement in living standards and social solidarity, and the crisis of the family, can sink europe and leave us behind, or, if we draw conclusions, open up new opportunities. the eu's 21st century accession countries are feeling the effects of this wave particularly keenly. the poverty of pensions, the birth rate below the eu average, the influence of alcohol and drugs... until recently, there were enough kindergartens and nurseries in the region, but the transition to a market economy has destroyed most of them. many people from the new countries, especially the baltic states, poland, bulgaria and romania, are emigrating to the wealthier eu countries. it is the loss of minds and hands, the loss of educated, energetic people, for whom enormous resources have been devoted. i support the proposal to allocate structural funds to compensate for these losses, but this is not enough. the eu's newcomers, who are particularly bloody, giving their best scientists, doctors, engineers, artists to the richer eu countries, need additional financial support. it is a good idea to offer older people the opportunity to work part-time and to pass on their experience to young people.
the eu solidarity fund is an important support to member states and eligible candidate countries in the event of major natural disasters. however, experience has shown that the solidarity fund needs to be reformed to adapt it to new challenges and thus increase its effectiveness. in particular, the minimum damage threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund eur 3 billion or 0,6% of national gdp is too high, preventing assistance to be provided in the event of minor disasters, which can be very painful and have serious consequences for the countries concerned. secondly, the fund may not provide support in the case of terrorism, public health crises and disasters in the field of technology and industry. thirdly, the fund's exception for exceptional regional disasters, the criteria for which are not sufficiently clear, raises a number of problems. that is why i support the reform of the solidarity fund. i call on the council to make its position on this matter known as soon as possible.
the composition of both parliament and the commission will change in 2009, but the continuity of work remains. i want to stress the importance of a common energy policy. since 2006, we have been talking about the need for a common energy policy for the european union and the external dimension of the common energy external policy has been proposed to parliament. it is important for us today, because we import gas from many sources. it is also important for us in the future, when it comes to new energy sources, the arctic, which is already being discussed, and the european union should not be the last to exploit resources and to seek new sources, as it always is.
member of the commission. - no, i cannot give you such detailed calculations as the honourable member is asking. it is very possible that the greek authorities made these estimates. we have estimated in our updated forecasts for february the impact of the financial turbulence and the more difficult international economic environment on european economies and we have estimated that there will be somewhat less growth, five tenths less growth in the european union, four tenths less growth in the euro area, compared to the forecasts we had presented in november 2007. and also half a point more inflation as a result basically of the shock of the increase in the prices of oil, of raw materials and, very particularly, of food raw materials. so far, the impact on exports has been very small, not to say that it has not been felt so far, but as we have said repeatedly, especially in these last few days when the foreign exchange markets are showing great volatility, we have the feeling that the evolution, the volatility of exchange rates as far as we as europeans are concerned is reaching limits that cause us great concern and we must remind all the other players in the global economy that excessive volatility in the foreign exchange markets is undesirable because it has negative consequences in terms of growth, economic activity, for everyone.
business is affected not only by international crises but, as you just mentioned, by currency fluctuations. a country with a strong currency may have a weak competitive position in international markets. in this case, the euro is so strong that businesses complain that it is no longer profitable to export. is there anything that can be done? sometimes countries try to weaken their currency to gain more from foreign trade.
member of the commission. − as i said, three partners from 3 countries are a prerequisite for short one-year programmes under the new programme, for multiannual programmes we need more partners. in effect, this adapts the scale or quantity to the proportions of an enlarged european union. we cannot supplement or replace with a small budget what national governments or subnational authorities, such as regions or states with large federal units, should actually support much more. and when i say bilateral, it's because of the three countries that are in the bernardo posselt question, two of them have in some cases partnered with the other, but the question of participation was partly covered by that. i want to encourage not only mr posselt but also potential partners that cooperation between, for example, regions or euroregions, cooperation between cities, but also between cultural operators in the general sense, is now possible and supported not only by the culture programme but also by the europe for citizens programme, a citizens' programme which is based, among other things, on the legal basis defined in article 151, that is, citizenship in the sense of culture or with a cultural dimension, and there are already thousands of examples of very traditional partnerships between municipalities, or ngos, or various groups of citizens based on 'people to people' who cooperate. thirdly, i would like to add that the structural funds are an even greater resource for the overall vitalization of cultural aspects, the restoration of cultural heritage, cooperation between states in the preservation and accessibility of cultural heritage. i would strongly encourage ministers or partners in cultural discussions to remember that this is what characterises europe more than business or geography, and therefore investing in cultural goods develops both the potential and the identity of europe, makes us attractive, and it simply has to happen at the local level, where people live. this is not just about brussels, the capital cities, but about our regions, cities and towns.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, that you have mentioned that nothing can be done about cultural policy outside the member states, and that brussels cannot do much about it, but nevertheless, especially in the new countries, artists and people of culture have felt uncomfortable and neglected over the last 10-15 years. what does the commission do and what could it do to disseminate the best examples of how artists are supported in new countries, about these new ideas, new projects in this field, could you say something specific?
today's debate is very timely, as the situation of women in rural areas is still a matter of concern. one of the main problems is the low employment rate of rural women, especially in the new member states, which puts rural women at a higher risk of social exclusion than urban women. in order to increase the employment of women in rural areas, it is necessary to encourage women in particular to start their own businesses. to this end, states must inform rural women about business creation, improve their access to modern information technologies and promote self-confidence among rural women. secondly, statistics show that rural women have lower levels of education and training than urban women. as a result, rural women have a harder time adapting to market changes, reorientation and new forms of farming and alternative farming activities. i would therefore urge member states to develop action plans to promote education and knowledge for rural women. the leader programme could also contribute more effectively to this. thank you. thank you.
i would like to talk about economic policy coordination. the european union is first and foremost an economic union based on moral values. in the face of new challenges, the european union must learn to respond quickly and flexibly to change in order to remain dynamic and competitive. unfortunately, the current mechanism for economic policy coordination (the lisbon treaty, the economic policy guidelines) is complex and inefficient. and it is holding back the development of the internal market, the main source of our economic growth. i therefore believe that we, the european parliament and perhaps the commission, could propose to the council that this mechanism be evaluated and revised in order to make it more flexible and to allow it to respond more quickly to changes. this would also ensure the continuity of economic policy, consolidate reforms and enable the european union's economy to adapt more quickly to new conditions. if some initiatives are not being implemented properly, it is simply because their economic sustainability in a global world has not been assessed. now we are talking again about climate change, energy strategy, but all these measures, as already mentioned, need to be coordinated and their economic consequences assessed. only then will they be sustainable.
we started discussing the common energy policy and energy security in 2006 after the gas crisis in ukraine and russia, which had repercussions in europe. unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy or an external energy policy. i hope that the council will give serious consideration to the issue of eu energy security, including lithuania's energy security, in connection with the planned closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in 2009. the closure of the nuclear power plant makes lithuania's energy sector completely dependent on the only source of gas imported from russia. with the rise in oil prices, the rise in gas prices, electricity will cost more than twice as much in lithuania. this will damage the households of the people and the entire economy of the country. we are also all aware of russia's tendency to use energy for political purposes. lithuania has already experienced this. in accordance with article 37 of the treaty of accession of lithuania to the eu and protocol 4 thereto, i invite the council to help seek a solution, including a possible postponement of the safe closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant.
the demand for milk in europe and on world markets is increasing. the milk quotas create a certain milk deficit. this restricts the possibilities of competition and in turn raises prices. in my country, lithuania, the purchase price of milk alone increased by 40% in 2007. it is therefore necessary to increase the national milk quotas, as an increase in milk supply would reduce milk prices on the eu internal market and, at the same time, allow for more milk to be exported to third countries. in the 2006/07 quota year, nine eu countries reached their national milk quota limits. so to increase the milk supply in the eu, it is essential that these and other eu countries have the right to produce more milk. lithuania's national milk quotas for 2006-2007 are almost fully used up. milk production is constantly increasing. i support the commission's proposal to increase national milk quotas by 2% from 1 april 2008. however, looking ahead, i would also like to urge the commission to consider increasing national milk quotas by 5% and gradually reducing the over-quota milk levy.
i welcome the commission's initiative and the rapporteur, nina gill, for producing an important report which i am sure will be of benefit to older people. their numbers are constantly increasing - a problem and a challenge. modern science and technology offer the possibility not only of giving them a well-equipped old age but also of involving them, according to their desire and ability, in activities of benefit to society. on this basis, eu countries need to prepare for a real revolution in the delivery of social and health services. manufacturers have felt the growing need for innovation in information and communication technologies. new devices and devices can help older people respond to a wide range of disorders, reduce their mobility, and help them not only feel, but also be useful to others. it is welcome that by 2013, the eu, its member states and private companies intend to invest more than €1 billion in innovation for older people. yes, ict can and must improve the situation, well-being and self-esteem of older people. but the question is, is it the majority or just a select few? i very much support the rapporteur's concern that the latest developments in information and communication technologies should not improve the lives of only a small proportion of the elderly who are already living in luxury. in some european union countries, there are six-star senior housing projects, and next door, there are poor old people's homes, where people are just trying to survive. there is no scientific, technical, or medical invention, nor are there any more modern devices. this situation must be changed immediately. the idea in the report that new technology devices should be affordable for older people to use easily is correct. the eu is a leader in many areas that determine human progress. leadership in this area is both honorable and necessary.
one in five people in the european union is over 60 years old, and the average life expectancy is now over 80. the quality of life of older people in the european union is currently still not good enough. for example, in my country, lithuania, one in four older people have a poor view of their health, and the activity rate of older people is as high as 57 percent. improving the quality of life of older people must be one of the priorities of the european union. the commission's proposed research and technological development programme is an important step towards responding to the increasing memory, hearing, mobility and autonomy problems associated with age. however, the commission did not give due consideration to the issue of accessibility of information and communication technologies in its proposal. one of the key elements of accessibility to information technology is price. the main income of older people is pensions, which are low, especially in new countries. it is therefore important that the price of ict products is affordable for every citizen of the european union. another important element of accessibility is the ease of use of the technology. only 18% of the 65-74 age group use the internet in the eu, compared with 60% of the general population. it is therefore necessary to ensure that ict products are user-friendly.
the rapporteur. − following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, the european union has grown to 12 members, 10 of whom have a particular expertise. they went from a planned economy to a market economy, from authoritarian rule to democracy. these countries were recipients of aid before joining the eu and have now become donors of development aid. many of them had little experience of implementing eu development cooperation policy. it was committed to implementing it in the treaty of accession to the eu. in addition, in 2004 the commission presented a number of documents on the european neighbourhood policy, which are directly linked to official development assistance to the new states. after 3 years of membership, it is important to assess how the new member states have responded to the challenges of development cooperation policy. i would like to stress that the report was limited to the 10 member states with land borders with their eastern neighbours, which are also covered by the eu's neighbourhood policy. these 10 countries have longstanding trade, economic and cultural relations with their eastern neighbours, a common historical past, and aspirations to develop and consolidate democracy and strengthen security in the region of central and eastern europe. as a dedicated study showed, many new states allocate official development assistance to their neighbours in the western balkans and the commonwealth of independent states. moreover, the eu's relations with its eastern neighbours are the least developed to date, and the new members, having a comparative advantage over the old members, can and do make a contribution to the development of relations, positively influencing the geography and nature of aid policy. the state provides experience in the development of market economies, good governance, the implementation of democratic principles and human rights. the acp countries, on the other hand, receive relatively little attention from the new eu members. assistance to these countries is mainly of a socioeconomic nature: projects in the fields of education, health, strengthening the public sector, support for the development of civil society, and the implementation of the principle of gender equality. although the eu's development policy documents do not specify which countries specifically need to be targeted, given the limited financial and human resources of the new members, its support should be concentrated in a few countries and areas of expertise, both in the neighbourhood and in the acp countries. as regards the problems encountered by the new member states in implementing development cooperation policies, it should be noted that: (1) many of the new member states still lack clear priorities; (2) there is virtually no strategic planning and management mechanism in development cooperation policy; (3) there is a lack of links between aid policy institutions and ngos; (4) there remains a lack of civic initiative, as well as low public awareness of development cooperation policies across the eu. the more effective implementation of the development cooperation policy requires the sharing of good practices between all countries, taking into account the experience of new countries in the east, the involvement of new states in the preparation of the action plans of the neighbourhood policy, the involvement of national parliaments in more active activities, the strengthening of ngos. however, i would like to stress that the two recent eu enlargements have given rise to a new approach to development cooperation policy and its overlap with the european neighbourhood policy, which is itself a result of this enlargement. both development cooperation policy and the instrument of neighbourhood policy are integral and complementary components of political and economic relations with other countries. the institutionalisation of development cooperation policy at european union level would be essential to the implementation of this new approach, allowing for a more effective implementation of the european neighbourhood policy and contributing to the effectiveness of official development assistance and the achievement of the millennium development goals. this requires the creation, and i ask for the support of the european parliament, of an eu-eu neighbourhood assembly, which includes an eastern dimension and implements both development cooperation and neighbourhood policy.
in congratulating the rapporteur, danuta budreikaite, on her hard work, i would like to congratulate the new countries of the european union for the rapid transformation from beneficiaries to donors. yet most, if not all, of them will probably fall short of the target of 0.17% of gdp for development aid by 2010. why is that? the countries that joined the european union in the 21st century are still, for understandable reasons, plagued by the ethnocentrism complex. we are the ones who have suffered the most, we are the ones who are behind, we are the ones who need the most help. but life in the european union, with its growing cooperation, is a way of breaking free from narrow, parochial thinking. in lithuania, for example, where until recently development aid projects were viewed with scepticism, most people now argue that such aid is necessary and necessary. the advantage of the new eu countries is that we can share the experience of the transition with other regions of the world. we are familiar with the difficulties and concerns of our neighbours in central europe, the caucasus and central asia, and we have recently experienced them ourselves. but the help and the vision must go further. poverty in african and asian countries from vilnius and warsaw to budapest and bucharest is less visible, but we must understand that by helping those who are struggling there, we are also helping ourselves. the nations of the planet have long been linked by a system of interconnected vessels. the growing gap between the richest and poorest countries, the uncontrolled flow of economic migrants, is destroying our world. civil society institutions play a very important role alongside state aid. even if it's not the most money or the most things that are collected through ngos, schools, churches, they're very valuable.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank all the speakers for the very high level and relevance of their speeches, which corresponded exactly to my concerns. first of all, i would also like to thank the slovenian presidency, which has been remarkably innovative, is activating and energizing the new member states in the thinking on development policies, and has already organised two extremely productive meetings on these issues. as regards the remarks made on the amounts, i.e. the amount of money needed, i fully understand the difficulties facing the new member states. but what i would like to point out - and you have said this in general terms - is that there are many, many alternatives to involvement and to the use of transfers of expertise, which are extremely inexpensive. i heard one speaker speak in particular of cooperation projects at the educational level. it is clear that the provision of trainers or teachers in some african countries, for example, is relatively inexpensive, but it is obviously an extremely important contribution for the country which receives it. i think that the subliminal debate which is suggested here and which asks whether we should rather invest for the new member states in the neighbourhood - i have no other semantic formula than the neighbourhood, but i can look for one - or invest in africa is a false debate. i fully understand that the neighbourhood is obviously more attractive, more justified and that it raises more awareness of the views of your countries and, of course, of the development partnership policies. but one does not exclude the other, and the educational value for the youth of a people who decide to invest themselves and open up to africa, for example, is absolutely exceptional, because it obviously conveys values which are strictly european values, which are universal values and, i can tell you that, if i allow myself to argue that the new member states are not absent from africa - this has been said - it is because some of your countries have already had experience in africa, an experience which, moreover, has left quite positive traces in general, especially in the construction of certain states, certain state services where there is a real expertise that has remained present. secondly, i would like to say that africa, ladies and gentlemen, is lagging behind the millennium development goals. the millennium development goals will be achieved in all developing countries except, precisely, in africa. i would therefore like to say that we have a responsibility or a co-responsibility somewhere not to divest africa and i insist: expertise in trade, as one of the speakers said. it is clear that promoting or encouraging our universities, schools, municipalities and local authorities to invest in trade with developing countries is a cost-effective and effective way of doing so. i am quite prepared to invite representatives of the so-called 'new' countries to accompany me on certain missions. i think it is also extremely important that they first of all be able to see the scale of the problems, but also, of course, the real tragedy, the horrible tragedy facing certain countries and certain populations. finally, i would like to emphasize that you have a very high added value, probably sometimes greater than our own countries, and this has also been said about everything related to governance. because, in the fund, what is governance? governance is the capacity of a state to carry out its major royal functions and to provide its basic, social, minimum services to the population. i believe that in terms of governance you can bring a great deal, that is to say everything that has to do with state building and - i believe that was said by mr lambsdorff - everything that has to do with the transition from a transitional period to state building or more definitive structures. i am thinking of tax collection, the establishment of administrations close to the people, the principle of subsidiarity, decentralization. all these areas are obviously fundamental to building states that can truly serve the people and you can obviously play an important role. i think it would be interesting, following this debate - at any rate, that is a proposal i will make - if i invited the twelve so-called 'new' countries to work with the commission on the basis of the programming of the tenth european development fund. at the moment we have more or less completed the programming of the tenth european development fund. it would be interesting to involve the new states in determining with them what types of associations, country by country, they would be interested in bringing in. we can, for example, ask them to provide training at the judicial, administrative and educational levels, where they could, for example, make some of their experts available. some of the new countries have expertise in, for example, e-government; there are countries in africa that are very demanding of this kind of expertise. that's why i'm making you this offer. i think it was important to have this debate and i realize that there are really interesting leads. that said, if we really want to be effective and make progress, i suggest that you schedule a meeting very quickly with the representatives of these 12 countries to have an active reading, so that we can really come to joint programmes in the coming weeks. there is an opportunity here which, it seems to me, should not be missed. the last point: you spoke of conditionality. i can totally understand that point of view. all the things relating to values, human rights, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption - all these things obviously seem important to me, but it is sometimes very difficult, and even counterproductive, to make development aid dependent on strict respect for these kinds of values, which are obviously dear to us. it must be realised that when you tie them up or make them dependent in countries where this requirement is not respected, the people are the ones who are the first to be harmed. and the way we deal with this problem is, in countries that don't respect good governance, we work with operators, whether local indirect operators, or ngos, or un agents. we only do budget support with countries where there is minimal governance. so i think we're probably in agreement on this approach. otherwise, these values are with us all the time. we are constantly trying, through political dialogue, to suggest these values, to push them. but strict conditionality is difficult to apply if you really want to help people, and that is the main objective.
the rapporteur. − i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate and supported my report. i would also like to thank all the members of the development cooperation committee who voted unanimously in favour of the report. i want to mention a few things now. new member states in fact, for the time being, this name is perhaps more than conditional, because there are certain differences between the old member states and the countries that have joined the european union after the two enlargements. because of their particular historical experience, because of their historical past, and because they may be less rich than the old ones. i would like to mention the experience of development cooperation policy. the policy was introduced in 1958 and the central and central european countries, including the czech republic, the present slovakia and others, had more experience and opportunities to participate in the policy. the baltic countries were less involved. but, for example, my country is already providing oceanographic assistance to mauritania, an african country. so, progress is being made. why do i emphasize the eastern dimension, the eastern countries? because they're very important neighbors. and in fact, the politicians' opposition to neighbourhood and development cooperation, or the details of their separation, is meaningless. those things are connected. in neighboring belarus, there are people who live on less than two dollars a day. so what countries can we put her in? they are also backward and they are also demanding, asking for support. and we all want our neighbors to be well. then, in fact, we are pursuing common, global goals. we're reducing poverty in africa, we're reducing migration, we're increasing the well-being of those countries and building their economies, enabling them to both fight disease and become self-sustaining states. by reducing poverty in the neighbouring countries, by helping where we can, where we have experience, we are stabilising the situation throughout europe and the balkans. thank you all for your discussion and support.
on behalf of the pse group when a country that participates in the european union's neighbourhood policy, that feels the pull of the eu, has a successful democratic election, it is a victory for all of us. if the opposite happens, it is a total loss. the presidential elections in armenia were welcomed by international observers, but subsequent events have delayed that tentative step forward. the bloodshed, the imposition of a state of emergency, is blocking armenia from the path of democracy, and is complicating relations with the european union. the country is talking about human rights, freedom of speech. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has also been involved in the fight against organised crime. we hope that both sides will show restraint and follow european values.
i think that the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, has done a very good job in completing the commission's timely green paper on climate change. some countries, especially scandinavian countries, have already prepared a long-term strategy for how they will respond to climate change by protecting coastal zones, by fighting floods, by building houses of special design, without waiting for calls from brussels. the publication of the white paper will encourage other countries to take action. the 22 eu countries bordering the sea and the oceans could already study the dutch experience in combating the sea. half of the country is below sea level. the dutch's continuous, i would say heroic efforts and the enormous resources devoted to fighting off water attacks have not prevented them from creating one of the strongest, most prosperous nations in the world. so you can adapt. the recent eu summit declared that climate change issues must be at the forefront of the eu's preventive security policy. conflicts and wars over habitable land, water and food must be prevented before it is too late. this is relevant for the world's poorest countries, which have contributed the least to climate change. those who have taken advantage of others must immediately repay their debts. the eu must continue to set an example for other continents and countries in how to tackle climate change while adapting to new conditions, and how to change the behaviour and habits of citizens.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to report on the hearing on the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in order to answer the legitimate questions of parliament. on 8 april the commission and the slovenian presidency held this hearing on the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. this hearing was requested by the council in april 2007 during the negotiation of the framework decision against racism and xenophobia. the hearing aimed to gain a better understanding of how member states have managed the legacy of totalitarian crimes and what methods and practices have been used to deal with it. the hearing was organized around two key themes: recognition of totalitarian crimes and reconciliation. in view of the sensitivity of this issue and in order to avoid any exploitation, the commission wanted this debate to be primarily a debate of independent experts, academics, from different backgrounds and based on scientific grounds. the member states have been invited, as has the european parliament, and i am glad that several members of parliament have had the opportunity to take part in the debate. the hearing was a constructive and calm debate. in general, the commission has four questions which stand out from the debate, in particular. firstly, there is the feeling that the old member states should be made more aware of the tragic history of the new member states. such a lack of recognition must be closely examined to avoid a split in the union over such a serious matter, which should rather bring us together. secondly, the issue that emerges from the debates is the establishment of truth, in order to achieve reconciliation. the principle of reconciliation which is the driving force behind the construction of europe remains more than ever a principle of great modernity. the various experiences of reconciliation presented at the hearing showed the complexity of the task but also the good reasons for hoping for a solution. they show that respect for fundamental rights is a key element in achieving genuine reconciliation. secondly, it appears that there is a wide variety of methods for dealing with issues of recognition and reconciliation. there is no one model and it is up to each member state to find the best way to adapt to this context. finally, the debates show that there is a demand for the european institutions to deal more with these issues. during the hearing, a group of participants presented a large number of proposals for action in a document. the commission has heard this call for greater european involvement but it must be stressed that it is up to each country to find its own way of managing the record and dealing with these issues. the european union cannot substitute itself for these national processes. the european union does not have much competence to act in this area. its role should be to facilitate these processes by encouraging discussion, by promoting mutual exchanges of experience and good practice, by bringing the actors together. now we have to analyse all the contributions received during the hearing, but i reiterate here the commission's willingness to continue the process initiated by the council's statement of april 2007. the commission must report to the council two years after the entry into force of the framework decision against racism and xenophobia and a political debate can then take place. the slovenian presidency intends to publish the contributions received for the hearing in the near future. the commission intends to launch a study to provide a factual overview of the methods, legislation and practices used in the member states to deal with the question of the memory of totalitarian crimes. given the importance of education and citizenship aspects, the commission will also examine how community programmes could be used more for a better awareness-raising effort in europe. i conclude that it is essential to promote an objective, calm discussion on these issues, to make progress step by step in respect of the union's competences and the commission is, of course, prepared to play its full role in this process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, while talking, debating and approaching an essential common position on the evaluation of crimes of totalitarian regimes in europe, one obstacle is most evident as a barrier to more rapid moral and legislative success. that main obstacle is the hardly understandable position of today’s russian government. as far as the crimes committed in the stalinist past of the ussr are concerned, instead of distancing themselves with proper condemnation of gross crimes against humanity, war crimes and other wrongdoings, russia’s ruling elite is not following the good example of denazified germany. no, the soviet führer, stalin, is praised, his own and his gang’s crimes denied or marginalised and the victims humiliated and mocked. this strange political behaviour, so detrimental to russia itself, cannot tear out the truth about deeds but continues to affect wrongly our european standards and fairness of evaluations. we should realise how such hypocrisy and double standards are helpful for various neo-nazis etc. if anyone says: well, before official russia changes its mind, we have to freeze ours and follow the kremlin’s mind or postpone our evaluations and decisions, that is an entirely and deeply wrong stance. no matter how harshly russian-state-hired political historians will try to rewrite the european history of the facts, the two bloodiest international tyrannies of the 20th century, along with the smaller national dictatorships, should and will be assessed properly. this has to be the best way europe can assist the russia of the future.
mr president, we must speak the truth, openly and honestly, about the crimes of hitler, stalin and other totalitarian regimes, from the former ussr to spain. in fact, neighbours, especially russia, ukraine and belarus, should also participate in a sincere manner. the occupation and annexation of the baltic states in the 1940s was not typical, as it was an attempt to disguise them as a social liberation. the fact that, say, lithuania was ruled by an authoritarian regime for 14 years, which abolished democracy and free elections, made it easier to carry them out. a year ago, at an exhibition in the european parliament, the lithuanian genocide research center presented shocking data. during the three years of nazi occupation, 240,000 people were killed in lithuania, including 200,000 jews. during the 47 years of soviet occupation, nearly 80,000 lithuanians were killed by repressive organs, died in exile and in camps. behind these figures lie immeasurable pain and tragedy, which europe must also know about. the activities and principles of stalin and other communist leaders, which have allowed the extermination of millions of people in the name of class struggle, are criminal. the communist movement, which has existed for 160 years, has had different faces in different countries, but all communist regimes have been undemocratic. at the same time, eurocommunism and opposition to the moscow dictatorship were growing. remember the names of imre nadzhi and alexander dubcek, communist attempts to escape the cycle of dogma and crime that other communists have ruthlessly suppressed. or can you put the leaders of the communist party of the soviet union, stalin, khrushchev, brezhnev, gorbachev, on the same footing? the dictatorial one-party system was not only destroyed by the efforts of dissidents, not only by western pressure, but also by the activities of members of the comintern who sought change, democracy and human rights. it is unlikely that the eu will ever have a unified history policy. but to know and understand each other's past better, we would need to have a more tender view of the future in order to appreciate democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of the eu, the debate on the evaluation of totalitarian regimes at european union level is aimed at making the crimes of both nazism and communism in europe appear as the outbreak of totalitarian regimes that have harmed states and their societies. the parallelism of the crimes of communism with those of nazism would have corresponding consequences for eu law, education and culture. the crimes committed by the nazi regimes in europe are universally condemned, nazi parties are banned and nazi propaganda is punishable by law. meanwhile, the damage done by communist regimes has not yet been properly assessed. communist parties are legal in some european countries. lithuania invites the eu member states to prepare official reports on the damage caused by the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes, in particular stalinism, and at the same time to demand compensation from the ussr, the successor state to the russian federation. lithuania estimates the damage of the half-century of soviet occupation at 80 billion litas. and europe should show its solidarity by demanding that those responsible pay reparations to the eu member states, as was demanded of the perpetrators of nazism.
mr president, whatever we say today about visa fees for belarusians and ukrainians, it is clear that urgent decisions are needed in this area and must be taken by the european union. for example, on visas the european union has signed a new visa facilitation agreement with ukraine, as well as with russia, moldova, the western balkans, and no such agreement has even been negotiated with belarus, because lukashenko is not interested in letting belarusian citizens see how the free world works and, most importantly, that he is much better off than the belarusians. the issue of visa fees remains relevant not only for belarus but also for ukraine. the fact that ukrainian citizens pay eur 35 for a schengen visa does not solve the problem, as the visa facilitation regime is only applicable to small groups of ukrainian citizens. and the case of belarus is even more telling: the belarusians pay the most for a schengen visa, or rather, it is the price they pay for the dictatorship of alexander lukashenko. is such an eu visa policy adequate to the situation at the eu's eastern border? i don't think he did. statistics show that poland alone issues about 600 000 visas to ukrainian citizens per year, compared to all schengen countries together, which issue 300 000. before joining the schengen area, lithuania, latvia and poland had set very low visa fees for belarusian citizens: poland and lithuania just €5, latvia issued visas free of charge. poland, lithuania, latvia issued 400 000 visas to belarusians each year, which is three times more than all the old schengen countries combined. tell me, do we like the fact that only 26% of belarusian citizens have ever been to at least one eu country, and 60% of belarusians have not met a foreigner in the last three years? of course not. we, the european union, must find an effective way of dealing with this problem, because we know from experience that it is better to see the european union once than to hear about it a hundred times.
mr president, since the beginning of my mandate, i have been interested in the performance of the european union agencies on behalf of the alde group. and i want to point out that in the last year, the number of agencies has almost doubled. although our rapporteur has made many critical remarks about the work of the agencies, it must be said that there are some positive developments compared to last year. the transparency and democratic accountability of their work has been enhanced by the implementation of our parliamentary proposal to have the work of the agencies assessed by the relevant committees. but, of course, there are problems. in view of these problems, we should first decide on the place of agencies in the european union's governance system. as i said, the number of agencies is increasing very much, and many people are blaming us, and parliament itself sometimes takes the view that this is an indirect way of increasing the number of bureaucracies. but perhaps what it really means is that we need to re-examine the governance of the eu, the european commission, and in particular the governance and administration system. a number of initiatives are now under way to improve this system. we should probably be talking about more radical reform, and that would have a positive effect and bring transparency to both the work of the agencies and the work of the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, china's policies in africa pose a serious threat to the sustainable development of african countries. people are working in slave labor in chinese-owned companies in africa. china provides political and financial support to african dictatorships and is expanding military cooperation with african regimes. sudan, zimbabwe are the main importers of weapons from china. china is offering african countries large loans without any transparency requirements, thereby fuelling the already widespread corruption in african governments. china is illegally importing timber and ivory from africa, damaging africa's environment. in this situation, eu development cooperation policy is failing to achieve its objectives. i therefore urge the eu to seek to link china's investment with respect for human rights and good governance, to stop any arms trade with those african states that are in or likely to be in conflict and war. until china stops supplying arms to these countries, the eu should impose an arms embargo on china. and i would also like to stress that in terms of china's policy in africa, the eu must overcome the differences between individual member states. a newly thought-out eu policy for africa would allow for the mutually beneficial use of africa's natural and human resources, and for the development of africa's economic and political independence.
for the alde group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european development fund is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year. during this time, it has become an important instrument of development cooperation with the acp countries, promoting their economic and social development. in the negotiations on the 10th edf, the member states of the european union agreed on the importance of this fund and the need to continue to promote the development of the acp countries and increased its budget by eur 10 billion compared to the 9th edf. this should make it possible to combat poverty more effectively and to achieve the millennium development goals. i would like to point out that since 2008 the new eu member states have also been contributing to the 10th edf budget. they commit to contribute almost eur 820 million. however, the 10th edf has not yet been launched, as almost half of the acp countries have not yet ratified the revised cotonou agreement. i would therefore urge the acp countries to ratify the revised cotonou agreement as soon as possible. even before the adoption of the current financial perspective, the inclusion of the edf in the eu budget was discussed, as it would increase the efficiency of its use. this issue is still pending. at the same time, i would like to call for more financial support from the edf for health care and education. the provision in the eu budget since 2001 that 20% of the support must be allocated to primary health care and education must also be applied to the edf. as regards innovation in the edf, i would like to emphasise the promotion of good governance. although it is not yet clear how this will be done, i also support the inclusion of additional criteria - market liberalisation, the fight against terrorism, commitments on weapons of mass destruction, the readmission of migrants - which would increase stability in the acp countries.
mr president, we are in a tricky situation with one of our neighbours when a normally existing republic on the european continent is officially called non-existent – only ‘the “former” republic of m.’ – by decision of the un. before washington follows new york and demands that the georgia in the caucasus should be called the ‘former soviet republic of georgia’, we could express our dissatisfaction with such practices and work to find a solution for ‘m.’. that is my interim proposal – not to replace the name of someone ‘former’, but to correct the situation with the text of our report by inserting an additional explanation: ‘the country under the name of fyrom’. please have a little sense of humour and support. we should help both greece and ‘m.’.
the chairman of the council. - as regards mr kamall's question, i would like to stress the following: the 'passarelle' clause is a clause allowing member states to decide unanimously that a given activity is to be carried out at union level. and i think it's inappropriate to interpret this as something that can happen without the consent of national parliaments. anyone who would do this without the consent of national parliaments would be doing so without cover at home. i should also like to make it clear that the treaty of lisbon strengthens the role of national parliaments, involving them more directly in the work of the european union. and the 'passarelle' clause of this is also subject to this increased role of the national parliaments. on mr. allister's question, i'd like to say that i'm not aware of any moratorium. there was no decision anywhere, in the council or in the presidency, on a moratorium on bad news, on a moratorium on sensitive issues. the question you have raised as an illustration, namely the common consolidated corporate tax base, is not a new one. this is a question that has been debated for some time, for years, and there is no consensus on it. and until there is consensus, there will be no progress. as already explained in one of the previous questions, questions in the field of taxation belong to the category of questions decided in the european union exclusively by consensus. and that hasn't changed and it won't change, not in the light of the irish referendum and not afterwards.
the chairman of the council. − like the honourable members who raised these questions, the council is concerned about the persecution of chinese human rights defenders. as far as china's olympic commitments are concerned, this is a matter for the international olympic committee. nevertheless, it can be said that the recent crackdown on human rights defenders and other activists calls into question china's commitment to fulfilling its commitments under international human rights standards. this includes protecting the legitimate right of individuals to freedom of expression. expulsions and persecutions, including those related to the construction of olympic facilities, are also a cause for concern. the heads of mission of the member states of the european union in china are closely monitoring the situation of individuals, such as yang chunlin and hu jia, in accordance with the guidelines on human rights defenders. furthermore, the council of the european union has consistently and in various ways drawn the attention of the chinese authorities to the cases of concern. thus, after hu jia was detained in december, he made several calls regarding this case, but the responses so far have not been satisfactory. the council will continue to monitor both cases closely and will seek to act. however, some positive developments should be noted, such as the rapid release of chinese journalists, including yu huafeng and ching cheong. we also welcome the amendments to the media legislation. the restrictions on foreign correspondence in the run-up to the olympics have been temporarily relaxed. in the last round of talks between the eu and china on human rights in october 2007, the eu troika called on the country to maintain the rules on foreign journalists after the olympic games. the chinese side has provided assurances that they will be allowed to operate more easily after october this year. the council will certainly discuss this issue with the chinese authorities. as you are probably aware, the council is preparing the next round of human rights talks between the european union and china. these talks will take place on 15 may in ljubljana. the eu troika intends to address the most pressing issues at this time, in particular the issue of freedom of expression, the issue of internet control, the issue of regulations regarding foreign journalists, and the issue of the right to peaceful assembly and the role of civil society. the eu will pay particular attention to the issue of human rights defenders. i can assure you that the eu troika intends to devote its full attention to discussing these issues and to make its concerns clear to the representatives of the chinese government.
the chairman of the council. - as regards the question from ms doyle, i said in my first answer that olympic commitments are a matter for the international olympic committee. this is the body that has the authority to act when it deems that there is a violation of the olympic commitments. the european union, of course, is watching the human rights situation, that is what mr evans asked. and i've already said that the human rights talks between the eu and china next month, on may 15, will include issues of freedom of expression, control of the internet, regulations regarding foreign journalists and the right to peaceful assembly and the role of civil society. this list is not exhaustive or exclusive, and other aspects can of course be discussed. the european union has a clear position on the death penalty, which it consistently advocates and promotes in all multilateral and bilateral fora.
dear minister, you mentioned that you would try to influence the chinese government. that's right, but the complexity of the journey of the olympic torch already suggests that we're likely to see more than just the athletes' games on tv during the beijing olympics, but a variety of confrontations in the squares and the streets with the police, which will probably involve both tourists and chinese people. in this situation, do you think we should put more pressure on china or talk to them more diplomatically?
madam president, this report, as my colleagues have already mentioned, is about who does what and who is responsible for what in the accounting process. parliament has a role to play here and i think we should play that role. but i would question whether we should go into every technical detail and try to set standards. i am not very satisfied with the description of the valuation procedure for illiquid/ illiquid assets in the report. because i don't think we should be interfering with whether it's a good or a bad order. we should wait for the experts to do the valuation, and now we have started the review of the valuation of the standard of the liquid assets, the consultation, and only then take their opinion. i therefore propose not to support paragraph 30 (e) and paragraph 42 of the proposal.
ten years is the time in which we can really assess whether or not emu has been beneficial. you can see what the achievements are and what the weaknesses and failures are. i would like to draw attention to the maastricht criteria, which were developed in theory before the creation of economic and monetary union. and now they're actually obsolete. the fact of stability and growth is being revised because no country is realistically implementing it. no euro area member state has realistically met any of the maastricht criteria during the entire period of implementation of these criteria. and i want to draw attention to the new member states, which are subject to strict financial requirements in terms of inflation, which was actually a purely theoretical determination and now no longer corresponds to reality. the fixing of inflation rates by non-euro area member states is not really correct and should be revised.
madam president, we need a clear wording: stop the war! ruki proch ot gruzii – hands off georgia! no more un mandate for conflict-keepers! that is the only way to get the kremlin to listen. if the eu is not able to say it, the eu shares responsibility. we may say it here, requesting that russian paratroopers land back in russia. nobody issued such a warning before the january 1991 bloodshed in vilnius, when paratroopers were already at the site. as russia now goes about escalating tensions around and against georgia, as well as giving them an increasingly military character, the reasons may be seen as political ones, but not only. what insights may be gained here? to get incoming president medvedev tied by the fait accompli if fighting occurs today between the russian and georgian military, which can easily be orchestrated by russia’s secret services – or, by contrast, to give him the chance to play a dove; to affect the forthcoming elections in georgia; to take revenge on the eu over kosovo by punishing georgia; to stop georgia’s progress in economic growth and fighting corruption after a major shift from a russian to a western type of state management. unfortunately, there is also a direct danger of a war against disobedient georgia. in such an event, recalling a possible link between the bucharest veto on a nato map for georgia and the rapidly growing aggressiveness of russia, we could ask germany to take a mediatory role in the russia-georgia conflict to avoid the worst. there is no more time to play local, ethnic or frozen gimmicks. the case is european. (applause)
for the ppe-de group first of all, i would like to thank the colleagues whose joint efforts have produced the annual report on the situation of human rights in the world in 2007 and the eu's policy. thank you to my colleague marco cappato. our work together was productive and enjoyable. our resolution reflects that human rights are our highest value, a clear priority, and my political family epp-ed attaches particular importance to human rights. the abolition of the death penalty, intolerance of torture, the rights of women and children, the fight against discrimination were and are at the top of our agenda. we in the epp-ed pay close attention to human rights in countries such as china, russia and iran, and not without reason, because the human rights situation in these countries is a matter of great concern. we know that the eu has developed and is implementing a number of measures to protect human rights and promote democracy. these are political dialogue, demarches, a financial instrument a european instrument to support democracy and human rights, guidelines, action in multilateral fora. therefore, one of the objectives of our resolution is to assess the effectiveness of eu policies and measures, their results, and to propose ways of improving the eu's measures, increasing their consistency, transparency and visibility. it is also important to note that the eu's interaction and cooperation with un bodies in the field of human rights protection is producing excellent results and new efforts are therefore needed in this area as well. it is true that, because of our different beliefs, experiences and cultures, we in the european parliament have different views and approaches to certain phenomena and issues, such as sexual and reproductive health. in addressing such controversial issues, the best measure is the rights of other people, especially children, women, and so, for example, pedophilia (some try to cover it up with the term sexual health) should not be tolerated, whatever it is called. i cannot fail to mention the importance of civil society participation, because without the active participation of civil society, ngos, the efforts of politicians would often remain mere declarations. human rights defenders, in whatever country they may live - the cubans osvaldo paya, the damas de blanco, the belarusians yuri bandajevski, the sudanese salih mahmoud osman and hundreds of others - deserve our respect and increased support.
the report deals with four out of 104 pages of the community's human rights record. this year, out of 216 10. the work of parliament in this area was reiterated, as was written a year ago on the establishment of the fundamental rights agency. but the report does detail how we europeans defend human rights around the world. but there is hardly a word in either report or resolution about the protection of human rights or violations in the community. are there no human rights violations in our country? if so, are they being dealt with very promptly and correctly? neither, i suppose. it may be easier to talk about the sins of others than to confess your own. in london, do we not see legal recruitment agencies turning immigrants from lithuania or poland into slaves? how is it that in paris, on the orders of nicolas sarkozy, mass arrests are made of even illegal residents? how do romanians in rome cope with the law? the victims can, of course, turn to strasbourg. there, in a few years, with thousands of cases, they'll probably restore justice. but every day, every hour, is important to a person. we are elected to serve our people, to represent and defend their rights. let's turn to them. everyone in europe should be safe. then we will be in a position to help others.
i also know from the european union textbook that one of the greatest european values is solidarity between member states and that small countries like the benelux countries have really been the engine of the eu's internal market. the objective was to take equal account of the interests of all parties. the energy interests of the big countries have now so overshadowed all the eu's values that the small countries will seem to remain energy islands forever. if russia unjustifiably cuts off lithuania's oil supply, the big members, along with russia, blame lithuania for turning europe into a hostage to the interests of the post-soviet states. the post-soviet states are imposing an unusual agenda on eu-russia relations and blocking strategic cooperation. the eu does not see that gazprom's pipelines have already been installed in virtually all eu countries and will soon show who is the master of energy in europe. i call on the european commission and the member states to open negotiations with russia only after a consensus has been reached between all the countries, big and small. and double standards are an old shame of the european union.
i will speak about the european union's diplomatic representation in belarus. the european commission's office in minsk has recently opened. 14 member states have diplomatic missions in the capital of belarus. two other eu countries - the netherlands and finland - cover belarus from other eu countries. however, even 11 member states cover belarus from moscow. these are austria, belgium, greece, denmark, spain, some others, and, unfortunately, slovenia, which currently holds the eu presidency. i think we're sending a misleading signal to the people of belarus, especially now that they're having such a hard time resisting the regime's temptation to hand over belarus to russia. i think it is time to ask the council and the member states to cover belarus from the eu territory, not from moscow.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for collaborating so thoughtfully and to say how pleased i am that we managed to find a solution in our discussions which everyone could accept. having said that, i would like to make three points. firstly, i fully support the idea this report has to be adopted before the lisbon treaty enters into force. this will mean that all member states will have to apply criminal sanctions in accordance with the new directive sooner rather than later. the burning of forests in greece should be very instructive for all of us. secondly, i would like to stress the desirability of the new wording for point ‘h’ of article 3 in relation to any conduct which causes ‘the significant deterioration of a habitat within a protected site’. this represents a considerable improvement over the narrower wording originally proposed by the rapporteur. thirdly, our most controversial discussions concerned the annexes. in this connection, i note that the scope of member states’ competence will not be limited thereby, with regard to article 176 of the ec treaty. in addition, a list of relevant community legislation will provide the necessary legal certainty required in the context of the criminal law. this approach also avoids the need to define certain terms, such as water or waste, in the directive. for this reason, i support the introduction of the two annexes to the directive. i fully support the document proposed by mr nassauer.
for the alde group i congratulate the rapporteur, mr van lanker, on the preparation of this important document. i also thank the rapporteurs for their good cooperation and understanding in the submission of their amendments. i think this document is well balanced, and i hope that it will be voted on by a large majority tomorrow. i would like to stress that the commission's communication to the european council sets out a particularly welcome objective which will help to boost economic growth and employment. it is the freedom of information, which would complement the four freedoms of movement of goods, services, people and capital within the community. this fifth freedom should help the community to accelerate its transition to an innovative, creative and knowledge-based economy. it would strengthen the so-called knowledge triangle research, education and innovation at community level. this is indeed a very good initiative by the commission. but i think there is no doubt that the first four freedoms are just as important for employment. unfortunately, member states do not always follow community policies or even break the law. by pursuing protectionist policies, they impede the free movement of capital or people and thus hinder not only the growth of their own country but also the progress of the community as a whole. i think that the free movement of services will not yet guarantee freedom for small and mediumsized enterprises. we should remember winston churchill's observation that where there is no free market, there is a black market. the commission and the member states of the community should understand that we can achieve much more together than we can on our own.
the first phase of the implementation of the updated employment policy guidelines of the lisbon strategy has already produced good results: 3.6 million new jobs were created in the eu in 2007 and the unemployment rate fell by 1.6% between 2005 and 2007. but that is only one side of the coin. currently, as many as 14 million people in the eu are working in poverty. in addition, the number of people working involuntarily on fixed-term contracts or part-time is increasing rapidly. the eu's youth also face particularly serious problems about 6 million young people are out of school and youth employment is less than half of the eu's total. i would like to emphasise that the pace and effectiveness of implementation of the employment policy guidelines vary widely between member states. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that the member states consistently implement the objectives of the european employment strategy and the lifelong learning measures provided for in the european youth pact, the european gender pact and the eu disability action plan 2006-2007.
member of the commission. − while the commission cannot comment on the extent of the alleged practice referred to in the question, it shares the concerns about the impact on the european industry of the united states tax subsidy. the subsidy appears to benefit all bio-diesel exported from and, by the way, sold in the united states, whatever its source. according to the industry data, the us exports to the european union rose from 100 000 tonnes in 2006 to 1 million tonnes in 2007, which is equal to about 15% of the european market. my colleague, commissioner mandelson, has raised this on a number of occasions with his us counterpart, trade representative susan schwab. he has advocated a change in the us legislation, for example restricting the subsidy to goods sold in the united states as a possible solution to the problem. so far there has been no movement from the united states side and the tax credit remains in force. the commission would be prepared to consider an anti-subsidy investigation upon receipt of a properly documented complaint from the european union industry containing sufficient evidence of countervailable subsidisation and injury. the honourable member asks whether the sustainability scheme proposed by the commission in its proposal for the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, adopted by the commission this january, will solve the problem created by the trading practice referred to in the question. the sustainability scheme provided for by the renewable energy directive is about ensuring the sustainability of biofuels. it is designed to promote the use of sustainably produced biofuels while discouraging the use of poorly performing ones. you will remember the 35% discussion. the sustainability scheme would therefore not be able to address trading practices such as the one referred to in the question from the honourable member.
member of the commission. − the method of the calculation of greenhouse gas emission from biofuels compared to fossil fuel emission contained in the renewable energy directive follows what we call the life cycle approach, which also takes into account the level of emission produced during transport of biofuels both within and outside the european union. in this respect let me reiterate once more that reducing greenhouse gas emission from transport is one of the guiding objectives of the biofuel policy.
member of the commission. − for 20 years the european food aid programme has made a decisive contribution in meeting the food requirements of undernourished people in the community. on 4 april 2006 this parliament adopted a supportive declaration on the european food programme for the most deprived people in the community. this declaration calls on the commission and the council to provide a multiannual budget allocation and to introduce a series of flexibility measures in the management of the programme. a strong emphasis is also put on the need to secure a balanced diet for needy people. this programme actually started back in 1987 as an emergency measure in a time of abundant surpluses of agricultural production. during its first years, the food aid programme mainly relied on supply from intervention stocks. as stocks have been declining over the last years as a consequence of the successive reforms of the common agricultural policy, the commission introduced a series of changes to secure the continuation of this scheme and these changes include the possibility of market purchase for products that are not available from our intervention stocks, the exchange of products within the same ‘family’ and the possibility to mix or incorporate intervention products and products bought on the market. the budget has also been adjusted in particular to take into account the recent enlargement of the european union. it has increased from eur 213 million in 2004 to eur 305 million this year, 2008. therefore the commission has made all efforts to keep in operation a programme that is based on intervention stocks in spite of the fact that these were vanishing. so we can actually say that we have been pushing the programme to its limits. now the time has arrived to rethink the future of this programme without losing sight of its broader picture. with this aim the commission services are already working on an impact assessment that examines the options for the future. the internet consultation has attracted huge participation with more than 12 000 replies, which proves the high interest among european citizens for this initiative. ngos have actually played a crucial role in the implementation of the programme and they will also remain a key player in the future. in a seminar which we organised in april they expressed the wish to maintain the food aid programme under the administration of the directorate-general for agriculture and they also stressed the need to introduce some kind of a multiannual allocation of funds and supply a broader range of different products. we are now examining these requests from the ngos and will stay in close contact with them. after the completion of the impact assessment i intend to submit to this parliament in september a proposal that allows the continuation of this scheme but on a very solid basis for the future. so i thank you very much for your interest and attention to this very important scheme.
member of the commission. − we are taking into account all the input that we are getting from our very open approach to this process. according to the current figures available, 13 million people in the european union are taking advantage of the special scheme for deprived people. as far as we can see, demand is not decreasing at the moment.
member of the commission. − first of all, what we are doing just now is evaluating all the ideas and information that we have got. in this context we are trying to judge whether we should target our money in a specific way. we have not yet finalised our internal discussions, but i can say this regarding children: i think it is of huge importance that first of all we ensure that our young people are well nourished and therefore we will also publish this year an idea (and i hope to get full support for it) for a school fruit scheme in cofinancing with member states that can offer children at a certain age the possibility to have a piece of fruit at school. i think it is in general a good idea providing a good habit to young people that hopefully will follow them throughout their lifetime. as to giving special priority to organic production: i think we have to choose between the devil and the deep blue sea, because if we choose organic we get less food and i think that is going to be a very difficult judgement to make.
member of the commission. − the commission is actually very concerned about the impact of the current high prices, both within the european union and also in the more global context. developing countries and the most vulnerable populations have actually been hit very disproportionately with the consequent risks of hunger, malnutrition and social unrest. the communication that the commission has presented today tries to analyse the root causes of these high prices. the commission has presented a series of initiatives to counter the short-term effects of the food price shock, to increase agricultural supply and ensure food security in the longer term, and to contribute to the global effort to tackle the effects of the price rises on poor populations. concerning the root causes, there are many factors which are simultaneously reducing global supplies: adverse weather conditions in key grain-producing and exporting countries, mainly russia and ukraine, which was previously called the bread basket of the soviet union. we have had adverse weather conditions in australia for three consecutive years. we have had higher energy costs. we have had slower increases in yields and increasing global consumption. these direct impacts on supply and demand are significant contributors to agricultural commodity prices and to the increases that we have seen. against the backdrop of food price increases, and in the wake of the financial market crisis, there has been increased activity in commodity-related financial markets to hedge price risk or diversify investment portfolios. these activities may have led to increased price movements and volatility on futures and spot commodity markets and have amplified the underlying price movements, but their influence on long-term price formation remains uncertain. so in today’s communication the commission commits to monitoring closely activities by speculative investors in commodity-related financial markets and their impacts on price movements. the communication notes that some exporting countries have responded to the rising prices by actually restricting their exports. india has introduced export bans, vietnam and thailand rice export limits, indonesia export taxes on palm oil, and kazakhstan a ban on wheat exports. such taxes and export bans are designed to protect the domestic markets from short-term supply shortfalls and price shocks. however, they further tighten international agricultural markets to the detriment, especially, of the food-importing developing countries. in a medium-term perspective, such restrictions clearly send the wrong market signals, reducing the incentive for farmers to invest and to increase their production, and contributing to an imbalance on regional markets. the issue of the very negative impact of export restrictions should be raised at the relevant forthcoming meetings of the wto and in other relevant international fora. the commission remains convinced that there are significant potential gains for developing countries from the doha round in terms of new market opportunities, which would help generate additional export income, stimulate agricultural production and facilitate access to foodstuffs, thereby alleviating the current food price hikes. the commission will therefore continue to work for a comprehensive and balanced doha deal. the commission trusts that it can count on the support of this house for the policy direction presented in today’s communication as a basis for tackling the challenges that we are facing in this situation with prices that are actually going through the roof in some areas.
member of the commission. − i shall be very brief because i touched upon this in my first intervention. that might be the reason why it was fairly long. in the communication the commission presented today it commits itself to monitoring the activities of speculative investors closely in commodity-related financial markets and the impact of those speculations on prices.
the immediate effect of price increases is felt by us consumers, but in the whole price chain, there is speculation, and some win, some lose, and most of the time it is the producer of agricultural products who loses. what do you think could be done to ensure that the prices of agricultural raw materials rise in proportion to other prices, i.e. that the purchase prices are appropriate and that farmers can live a decent life?
member of the commission. − i completely agree with the question raised on the consequences for the primary producer, for the farmer. the situation actually is that we have seen increases, especially in the cereal sector. when we talk about these extraordinary high prices, i always like to look back a bit in history to see how prices have developed; and, taking the past 30 years, prices have been decreasing the whole time from the primary producer. this has not meant that prices have not been increasing in the retail sector. but if you compare prices on cereals in 1975 and today and look at fixed prices, the prices were twice as high in 1975 compared to today. we see a situation where people are used to the fact that on average in europe, i think it is only 14% of the income that is spent on food, and this has been decreasing as well over the whole period. when mention is made in the communication about what is going to be done, it is obvious that we have to look at the whole chain. it is the competitiveness commissioner who is in charge of surveying the situation and we do not know at this stage whether there will be a positive or negative outcome. but we will keep an eye on all the reasons that are behind the increasing prices that we have seen since late august of last year.
vice-president of the commission. − on the question about plan d and the communication about ‘debate europe’, let me say that i see it as our duty, together with member states and the other eu institutions, to communicate with citizens about all our policies and positions. while, on the treaty, member states of course have the main responsibility, the commission must also stand ready to inform and explain. our recent communication, ‘debate europe’, aims at promoting active dialogue between citizens and decision-makers and, although not specifically referring to the lisbon treaty, or to the lisbon treaty only, actions taken under ‘debate europe’ may be connected with communicating on the treaty. the treaty is one of our communication priorities for 2008. our activities have been decentralised and differentiated to fit the national realities in each of our member states, and this is ‘going local’ working in practice. our representatives have worked with each member state and parliament information offices to draw up national communication plans to respond to different needs, and the activities have included liaising with national stakeholders, training for journalists, information relays and multipliers, discussions with civil society and events at schools and universities. we have prepared a broad range of support materials including powerpoint presentations, elements for speeches, questions and answers, fact-sheets on different areas – all aiming to help communicators provide the facts on the issues. and from brussels, as you know, the commission has also launched a website dedicated to the treaty in the 23 official languages, and our on-line forum ‘debate europe’ has recently been relaunched with discussions on the treaty proving one of the most popular areas, with many thousands of submissions.
vice-president of the commission. − first of all, partnership is the key word. we cannot do it from brussels; we cannot do it from the commission side alone: we have to work together in communicating decisions we have taken together. i think that there are different roles given to the commission and the institutions, compared with, for example, ministers, who of course also have to be out there everywhere in ireland as well as in all other member states to help, to explain, to listen and to communicate what this is all about. i think that if you start by communicating on amendments i am afraid that you have already lost the audience. my experience is that if you communicate clearly on the substance issues then it is much easier, and this is exactly also what our representation office in ireland is trying to do: to communicate on the different substance issues. i know that, following a call for tender, they have engaged in, i think, about 20 different local meetings, where they also engage politicians, irish politicians, to try to spread information and engage them on different substance issues. it might not be enough but we have to continue along these lines. i think, of course, that engaging with the media is one of the most important things. at the same time, it is important to respect the very particular laws and regulations you have in ireland when it comes to debate before a referendum, and we are of course trying to do that as well. but we have an obligation to communicate and to engage with citizens on the policies and the positions that the institutions take, and i hope we can continue to do it hand in hand.
madam commissioner, you have mentioned the referendum in ireland, and in three weeks they will have a very important, maybe decisive, vote in that country. we all remember the outcome of the nice treaty referendum in that very eu-friendly country some 10 years ago. what lessons have been drawn from this unfortunate experience, and how is the commission participating in the pre-referendum discussion debate in ireland?
vice-president of the commission. − thank you very much for these relevant questions. what about knowing public opinion? well, we have our opinion polls through the eurobarometer which give us a lot of guidance and where we can also identify some of the information needs. on top of that, of course, different opinion polls are also carried out in every member state to find out more of the details and to make it country-specific. so i think we can say that we have a fairly good basis of knowledge of what citizens expect and what they need when it comes to information, although i also think that it can vary a bit from one member state to another. i think that one of the lessons drawn in ireland was the need to engage on a very broad scale and that is why the national forum was set up; i think that, following visits from both myself and, most recently, president barroso, we have tried to engage and listen to the national forum and their needs and we are trying through our representation office to respond to those needs, while also respecting that there is always a very special situation when you have a referendum: for example, you also have to respect the mckenna legislation which is in place in ireland. this of course restricts or sets very clear limits on what ministers or the government can do. at the same time we have a general obligation to engage and provide information, which cannot be taken away from us, and i think that this is how we have learnt how to engage with the national forum and also how to do more using the media and with young people especially, but also with women because in our experience they are the ones who very often feel alienated and distant from the debate. that is also where we have to use modern communication tools like the internet: another lesson learnt is that we have to engage through the internet.
vice-president of the commission. − 2008 is a crucial year for all of the institutions to prepare for the european elections next year. it is in all our interests to work together to maximise turn-out in june 2009. the work launched by the recent communication ‘debate europe’, promoting active dialogue between citizens and decision makers on european issues, should contribute to this work. but the commission and parliament already work in close partnership in these areas, both in brussels and at the level of our representation and information offices in member states. last month our services started a new working group to maximise the joint impact of our activities and also to seek closer cooperation between commission and parliament representations and offices. we are looking to revise the 2001 code of conduct on the working relationship that will open up new ways for us to work together, as well as facilitating the common use of resources such as audiovisual or press monitoring tools. we are also committed to the goal of shared premises in member states – the so-called ‘eu houses’ – and already in 25 of the 27 member states our offices share space in the same building. as you know, we are in a pilot project in three of these european houses – in madrid, dublin and tallinn – with a common space which we call a ‘european public space’. we have been able to broaden the scope of our activities to engage with cultural activities, and scientific and youth events as well. we now have a first report on this pilot project with the european public spaces. it seems to be very positive and we will continue along these lines.
thank you, commissioner, for your comprehensive and clear answer. i am sure that you are an optimist by nature. on the other hand, your position in the commission also calls for optimism. i am sure that you are counting on the ratification of the lisbon treaty in all countries this year. i would like to ask what, in your opinion, would be the difference between the election campaign for the european parliament in 2004 and next year, bearing in mind that most probably it will be after the ratification of the lisbon treaty?
vice-president of the commission. − i shall be very blunt. i think that we also need to engage much more from the commission’s side, through our representation offices, in mobilising voters, to ensure that we have a higher voter turn-out. we cannot be too cautious. i think we all have to say that we want european citizens to exercise their right to vote and this is how we will engage with member states – again in partnership, not taking a political position but really just to mobilise voters. we are looking, together with the european parliament, through the interinstitutional group for information and communication, at how we can do this. parliament has already presented a well-crafted and elaborate plan for the ep elections and we will contribute to that in the best possible way, using all our tools and especially our representation offices. together with parliament we can make sure that we increase the voter turn-out.
i would like to say that it is very important in an information campaign that the material is prepared in all eu languages. and i would very much like to... i will speak in english. maybe you cannot hear me, as i see the commissioner is busy. i just wanted to say that it is difficult to receive information in lithuanian, because i represent lithuania here. if you try to call the toll-free number for europe direct and ask a question in lithuanian, you will be advised to wait for half an hour. it is difficult to find books in lithuanian even here in the parliament office for visitors, because the booklets are only available in the main languages. i do understand that there is a huge problem with interpretation and a financial problem, but maybe you have to set some priorities. would you be so kind as to check how europe direct centres operate in different languages as, for example, commissioner kuneva is doing?
member of the commission. − i will try to combine the two questions as it is an area that clearly shares the same type of thinking, the goal being to combat discrimination based on nationality in all sports. i think that is the main thing and that is a principle, so to say. that goal should be achieved through political dialogue, recommendations, structural dialogue with stakeholders and, when appropriate, through infringement procedures. therefore, i think that what we have to take into account is that this competition line that i was explaining earlier is quite clear and that it should not be attacked by other ways of thinking.
member of the commission. − the commission is of course concerned about the recent wholesale and retail price increases in food and food products. this has implications for the people of europe and, even more seriously, implications for billions of others around the world. indeed, eu food price inflation accelerated in the last quarter of 2007. the observed price increases at consumer level reflect recent developments in product value, cost and profit along the food supply chain. it should be noted that prices for major agricultural raw commodities had been rising for several months and continuously breaking record levels. that development mainly resulted from a combination of structural drivers: a steady rise in global food demand, the emergence of the biofuel market – only for a very small part – and more short-term factors such as adverse climate conditions, which provoked a decrease in the output volume of cereals in most of the eu member states in 2007 and the restrictive export policy of some key world market suppliers and in general an increasing engagement of investment funds in agricultural commodity markets. nevertheless, it should be underlined that prices of raw materials do not constitute a strictly proportional part of food prices, especially as it becomes more processed. thus some other components of the sale price, and i am thinking of energy and labour margins, have also influenced recent increases in food prices in the european union. it must be noted that these price increases are not necessarily linked to a deficiency in the application of competition rules. as the honourable member knows, the primary objective of ec competition policy is to make markets work better for the benefit of consumers in the eu. as mentioned in several replies to recent parliamentary questions, the commission, together with the national competition authorities forming the european competition network, monitors markets in order to prevent and sanction distortions of competition to the extent that these distortions can potentially harm consumers. the commission only acts when it is better placed than national competition authorities to take action. they will act first, but when they are not in a position to do so, we will jump in. indeed, since the issues related to the retail sector are frequently national in scope, the member states are well placed to address them. however, the commission would like to reiterate that, should any specific breaches of competition rules be confirmed and supported by legal and economic evidence, we will not hesitate to take action. it is of course important to consider all relevant factors affecting these markets and the commission will continue to monitor consumer prices, retail market concentration and any allegations of anti-competitive conduct. the commission considers market monitoring to be a very important task. in the framework of the single market review, the commission will analyse the possible reasons for the malfunctioning of retail services, seen both from consumers’ and suppliers’ perspectives. the levels and differences of consumer prices between the member states are also monitored in the annual report of the consumer markets scoreboard. the first edition – as you are aware – of the scoreboard was published at the beginning of 2008 and the exercise will be carried out yearly. prices are among the main screening indicators. some price differences, especially in the case of non-tradable goods and services, may clearly be due to differences of income between the member states. nevertheless, particularly large differences between the member states may suggest the need for further scrutiny. additionally, the commission will touch upon the issue of market power in the distribution sector in the framework of a high level group on the competitiveness of the agrifood industry. that initiative will be launched by the commission in order to analyse the food industry, which in recent years has faced new risks and challenges which question the sector’s competitiveness. the commission will also in the weeks to come formally transmit a response to the european parliament’s written declaration on investigating and remedying the abuse of power by large supermarkets in the eu. the commission’s response will provide, among other aspects, certain clarifications in relation to buyer-power-related issues.
member of the commission. − i am absolutely aware of the importance of your question and of getting in line with one single market. you can be absolutely sure that the commission will do its utmost to make it a real single market also in the retail sphere.
i understand from what you said that the competition directorate cooperates with the competition authorities of the member states. but we as citizens see that there are some agreements, prices are rising all at once across the country, and the competition authority finds no violations. what is your experience, is there a lack of qualifications in the national states, or are there certain abuses?
it is regrettable that, despite the eu's legislative acts, declarations and ongoing debates, the gender mainstreaming aspect of science, as in other fields, is not satisfactory. i could say that from my experience in science. although women are a significant proportion of the eu's university students, only 18% of all researchers working in the private sector and only 15% of all senior researchers in decision-making positions are women. only 35 percent of women work in the government and higher education sectors. in addition, women in research are often paid significantly less than men, their duties involve more training than research, and they rarely achieve recognition. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to support women pursuing careers in science. we must not forget that the family dimension must be integrated into the support measures, that researchers must have flexible working hours, that childcare facilities must be improved and that family mobility must be encouraged.
today we are discussing the tragic situation in burma following the cyclone that struck earlier this month, with tens of thousands of dead, missing, hundreds of thousands injured, sick, homeless and without food. almost every day, we see images of cyclone-stricken burma on our television sets, and it is impossible to remain indifferent. true, mankind is still powerless to prevent natural disasters, especially when they strike suddenly. but this is not the case in burma, because we already know that the indian government warned the burmese government about the approaching cyclone two days before it hit burma, so the authorities were informed. nevertheless, the cyclone struck the common people with all its might, for the generals in power did not bother to warn the citizens of the coming ordeal. such a government is only to be condemned, because its recent actions are a demonstration of its complete inefficiency, indifference to the people of the country, a clear violation of the rights of citizens. it was the generals who turned a natural disaster into a government-sanctioned catastrophe. the authorities' actions in not allowing humanitarian aid workers from other countries in, their refusal to help the people affected by the disaster, their ignoring of the international community's efforts to help the people of the country only add to the list of criminal acts with which the current burmese authorities will be remembered everywhere and always. as well as the pathetic ambition of the generals, the shameful attempt to hold a referendum on the constitution in this situation. i am convinced that the european union must try all possible means - i stress all possible means - working together with the governments of india, china, other asian countries, using the institutions of the united nations system, to provide the maximum possible assistance to the people of burma.
the implementation of eu industrial policy, which is a competence of the member states, faces a number of obstacles to achieving better results, greater competitiveness. i will mention a few: regulation, sustainable development. the eu industry is faced with too much regulation and too much bureaucracy. this is particularly the case for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are subject to excessive administrative burdens in their establishment and operation. small and medium-sized enterprises account for over 90% of all businesses in the eu, are innovative, dynamic and flexible and play a key role in withstanding external competitive pressure and creating jobs. i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to simplify substantially the regulatory environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. sustainable development is a horizontal requirement for all eu policies. we must work towards the european union's swift transition to a low-carbon and resource-efficient industry, thereby reducing environmental pollution, exports of pollutants to third countries and the impact of climate change. sustainable development should be based on new technologies, which means increasing research funding, which we are lagging behind the us and japan, and reducing patent costs, thereby increasing the diffusion of innovation. although industrial policy is a national competence, i have already urged the commission in previous speeches to play a greater role, especially in studies and forecasts, in making recommendations to the states on which sectors and branches will be competitive, especially with regard to the export of production to third countries. i therefore welcome the commission's new sectoral initiatives in the electrical engineering and food sectors, whose problems are of the greatest concern today.
when lukashenko felt pressure from putin over gas a year and a half ago, he said he wanted closer ties with the eu. but today we see that it was just empty rhetoric that did not respect human rights, freedom of the press and other european values. belarus has done nothing in response to our outstretched hand. no reaction to 'non-paper: what the eu could bring to belarus'. political arrests and repression continue. the eu must send its experts now to monitor the preparations for the parliamentary elections in the autumn, the changes to the electoral law, and the opening up of the opposition. we cannot just watch the elections. that would be a big mistake. first of all, of course, the lukashenka regime must ensure free access to belarus for eu diplomats and parliamentarians. the european commission and the governments of the eu member states must make every effort to do so.
mr president, i congratulate both rapporteurs, and i agree on the importance of the lisbon treaty assessments whilst evaluating the cfsp report. if we were to have had this discussion in ten days’ time, after the decisive referendum – and my belief is that ireland will say ‘yes’ – the debate would have been even more concrete and optimistic. nowadays, when threats are on the rise and infiltrate from all sides, if the eu cannot speak with one voice, it is essential to speak at least in a coordinated and stronger manner. i agree completely with mr solana’s assessment. it will not be easy to start negotiations on the eu-russia agreement. after a delay of one and a half years there is a risk of losing a similar or even greater amount of time if we are not focused on the most fundamental issues. this is why 27 countries have to coordinate their interests, concentrating on those which are common and important for all. the alternative to the negotiations being delayed or failing is an amplification of moscow’s bilateral talks with rome or vilnius, berlin or budapest, paris or sofia. this is not an attractive option, especially for the new states. the response of the commission and the council was timely – given the threat of climate change – calling this a central issue. the european parliament should continuously follow and scrutinise the way in which plans and measures are implemented to counter the threat.
the european commission, some wto members are rushing to conclude the doha negotiations on agricultural and market opening for industrial goods nama. the political situation in the us and the elections are clearly influencing this. however, the nama questions represent a clear regression compared to the suspension of the round in 2006. the rapidly developing countries maintain a virtually unimpaired level of market protection. eu tariffs on textiles and clothing will fall from 12 to 4%. the emerging markets will not be affected, as it is not their tariffs that will be reduced, but the maximum tariff obligations. in addition, china, which has plundered europe and the world with substandard goods, will be subject to an 18-year transition period. the proposed nama option is unacceptable for lithuanian and other eu countries' industry and will undermine its competitiveness. there is a clear balance between agriculture and the nama. the eu must not rush to complete the doha negotiations at the expense of its own economy. i call on the commission to take its time and to represent the interests of the eu countries properly.
for the alde group the main issue we are discussing today is how to make sure that the citizens of the european union can enjoy the benefits of the single market in a financial sector which is highly fragmented. how could we solve this problem? there are three ways. firstly, the mobility of consumers themselves should be increased. how can consumer mobility be increased? in particular, the information on the products offered should be standardised and the cost of those retail financial products should be made transparent, so that the consumer can choose through any medium, even, as mr pittella suggested, the internet browser. we do not think that all products should be standardised, because we should reflect the social, cultural and traditional differences between countries, and therefore standardisation should be very defined. another thing we could do is we could enable the consumer to open an account in another country. now we have the schengen area and everybody can drive from one country to another without any problems, and there are no problems with the data registers. however, banks have a problem in allowing foreign nationals to open accounts. i think that's really unacceptable in this age of technology. i really don't think we can solve these problems by self-regulation alone, given the number of retail banks and how difficult it is for them to coordinate. could the commission perhaps suggest some initiative in this direction ? another issue is that we can encourage the mobility of providers, allowing them to provide services online, via sms, but in that case, we would have to have financial oversight in place and know who would be responsible if something happened. in conclusion, i would like to say to mrs cross that we would very much like transparency from the commission as well. as for the card fees, new fees are already being introduced in the wake of your proposal. consumers in shops are probably unaware that prices are even higher because banks are complying with allegedly future new requirements. maybe we can publish these card costs more and more often so that consumers can compare and thus increase the pressure on banks?
i welcome and support the rapporteur's proposals to strengthen the requirements for surface water quality and for the assessment of the effectiveness of eu legislation. for small eu countries bordering on the eu's external borders, water pollution from neighbouring eu countries is a particularly sensitive issue. the union does not want to and cannot become an iron curtain, either in the environment or elsewhere, and reducing pollution is therefore important both within the eu and in the neighbourhood. amendment no 26 emphasises that the commission is to present a report on the situation regarding pollution from third countries no later than one year after the entry into force of this directive. the commission should further promote the adoption and implementation of enhanced environmental commitments in its negotiations with neighbouring countries. this is particularly important for countries that share their river basins with the eu's neighbours.
i welcome the commission's proposal to declare 2010 the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. poverty is a global and eu problem. one in six eu citizens lives below the poverty line. i would like to highlight some aspects of poverty and social exclusion that we should be paying much more attention to than we have done so far. first, only by ending child poverty will we be able to break the vicious circle of generations living in poverty and social exclusion. second, almost 10 percent of the working population is suffering from poverty because of low wages, part-time work, low skills. it is necessary to create quality employment by upskilling workers. thirdly, there is a need to increase public awareness of poverty and social exclusion and to increase solidarity. i would like to call on all eu institutions and member states to increase public awareness of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, to dispel the perception that it is a financial burden on society and to foster a sense of shared responsibility.
i would like to congratulate the commission on its decision to allow slovakia to adopt the euro as from 1 january next year. the introduction of the euro in slovakia is a good example and a good incentive for other countries to step up their efforts and take additional measures to meet the convergence criteria. slovakia is adopting the euro in very difficult economic conditions, both in the world and in the eu, with rising fuel and food prices and rising inflation. the slovak experience should therefore be of benefit to all those seeking to join the euro area and those already in it. i would also point out that, as slovakia has become the 16th member of the euro area, it is necessary to ensure an efficient decision-making procedure for the governing council of the european central bank. unfortunately, the final decision on the rotation system has not yet been taken. i would urge that the rotation system be introduced as soon as possible, so that it is not delayed until the number of governors exceeds 18, and that the rotation system be introduced as soon as possible in order to prepare as well as possible for slovakia's accession to the euro area and for the further expansion of the euro area.
lithuania is a country that under the accession treaty has committed itself to adopting the euro and we have tried to improve or clarify the maastricht criteria every time, for the fourth time in our term of office, when a decision is taken on the introduction of the euro in one country or another. this indicates that there is uncertainty as to how those criteria are to be implemented. we have proposed from the outset that these issues be addressed by lithuania and other countries on behalf of and at the level of parliament and the council. however, this is all the time being denied and i am very sorry that instead of sitting down and explaining what are the nuances and the technical things that are hindering the successful development of the euro area, we tend to play some individual solutions for each country individually. i would like to stress that it is absolutely clear that we have to pursue a strict fiscal policy and it cannot be in the language that we will change our ... (the president interrupts the member)
on behalf of the alde group, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr morgan, and thank my shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work. this document is a step towards the creation of a single and competitive energy market in the european union. we must do so because it is an indispensable condition for ensuring competition in the market and consumer interests. the revised document seems to me to be largely in line with the strategic energy policy aspirations of many member states, namely to create an efficient and integrated internal market in the european union. i'll just touch on a few aspects. first, the issue of security of energy supply remains important in the context of the directive. electricity interconnections between declining energy islands such as lithuania and other baltic states and other regions require both political will and a common european union policy based on common financing. we must not only talk about but also implement the idea of cooperation between network operators, which is to be transformed into the idea of a common european electricity supply network company. so please support amendment 168. it would also help to solve the connection problems. secondly, the principle of reciprocity in relations with third-country market players is undoubtedly of great importance. thirdly, the establishment of a european agency will facilitate cooperation between national regulators and contribute to the consolidation of the internal energy market. the agency should be given sufficient powers and autonomy. fourth, it is of particular importance to ensure the independence of the national regulators, their appointment must be transparent and open, and their activities must be completely independent of politicians and the executive. the powers of the regulatory authorities of all member states should be harmonised. step by step we will create both a single market and a common energy policy, guaranteeing security of supply and the best price for all consumers. you want to do it faster.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent, consistent and cooperative work. they faced a difficult challenge because the commission proposed a very complex new approach and document, a package of documents, because the european electricity market (a model that has been in place for decades) was based on national, vertically integrated companies operating in and protecting their markets. i think there are three main vectors and three main ideas in the package: i.e. to extend the process of concentration to a european scale by removing national restrictions through the introduction of the principle of separation of activities; the second principle, which i see is the strengthening of the process of centralisation by setting up a european agency and improving coordination with national regulators, which is really excellent and which many of us support. the third principle which has not been disclosed and which, in my view, has remained very vague and raises many questions is the principle of isolation from third-party investment in transmission networks in europe, which may in principle... have failed to provide clear answers as to how the commission sees the future, what political, financial, economic risks may arise, how the application of this principle may affect the future of both energy and the policy of the european union as a whole. i would like to emphasize one more point: market impulses and the principle of separation of activities are not sufficient to change the nature of natural monopolies in the energy market, because there are still isolated markets, regional markets, and this requires broad political agreements alongside this document ... (the president interrupted the member)
i would like to congratulate the commission for initiating the package of documents on the realisation of the internal energy market in the eu and the rapporteur, mrs morgan, for her report which gives a qualified assessment of the situation on the electricity market and proposes solutions. i am glad that the existence of the energy islands has been brought to the attention of the public. lithuania is one of these islands in terms of electricity and gas. its situation will be unpredictable after the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in 2009 due to its total dependence on russia. the integration of regions into the common eu electricity system is therefore vital. proposed implementation of ownership as the only way to ensure the independence of the transmission system operator, prohibition of third parties from controlling transmission systems or the transmission system operator, priority of consumer interests and protection are measures that will help to ensure the eu's energy security and the well-being of citizens.
member of the commission. − mrs batzeli, i think it is important that we have a control system in place to see that prices are not going through the roof, and that is exactly the duty of the national competition authorities – that they keep an eye on this. i can tell you, internally in the commission as well, that we have had a discussion with the commissioner responsible for competition and that we are very much aware of these problems. to mr rutowicz: i do not know if you are referring to the sugar reform where we decided to reduce the production of sugar within the european union by 6 million tonnes and finding a possibility to give the farmers that were stepping out of sugar production a very decent package. however, this is a decision which was taken a few years ago. on the price of imported products: yes, it is true that it depends on import duties and that is exactly what we are discussing these days within the wto doha development round – whether we can find an agreement on reducing duties in general. and finally, on the benefits of eating fruit: i do not disagree with you, and that is the reason that we are presenting – in the next meeting taking place here in strasbourg – a fruit and vegetable scheme for school children, which i am quite sure will be very valuable in giving young children good habits.
i wanted to ask about the excise tax. in the context of the alcohol excise duty, a zero rate was proposed in parliament. what would be your view on the excise duty on fuel, as the current situation offers no short-term solutions? could a reduction in excise duty on fuel, at least temporarily, be possible to avoid rising food prices in other areas?
on behalf of the uen group the european union's policy on the taxation of energy products was adopted in 1993. at that time, oil was $16 a barrel. today, with oil prices at $140, the question arises as to whether such a european union policy of taxing energy products is justified. citizens and businesses in the european union pay far more for fuel than people in the rest of the world. since, in addition to vat, they pay an excise tax, which the european union forces to increase, the paradoxical situation arises: the more expensive the oil, the more money the government takes from its citizens. the pan-european strikes of recent days clearly demonstrate the growing discontent of citizens at the lack of action at european union level. it's a very clear signal. can we ignore it and not react to it? do the commission and the council not think that the time has come to review the european union's policy on the taxation of energy products, in particular excise duties, vat and import duties? how does the commission justify the strong message it sends to citizens that they must learn to live with ever-increasing fuel prices? does the commission not consider that the continuous rise in fuel prices threatens citizens' confidence in the european union by preventing governments from taking effective action? the arguments used to justify the inaction or the refusal to act in the tax field are not open to criticism. to say that the situation will not change or even get worse with the tax cuts is not an argument. europe is not the only buyer of oil and its products in the world. there is no oil for europe and no oil for europe. the price and market of oil is global, only europe imposes much higher taxes on petroleum products, which are on the shoulders of citizens. import duties restrict competition. changing tax policy may not solve all the problems, but it will allow us to respond more flexibly to market changes and make it easier to survive the difficult period. does it matter? yes, we need other long-term measures, and i certainly support them, but we need to act more decisively. today, the citizens of the european union need a low-key approach. they need good solutions that allow them to react quickly to problems. tax policy, especially excise and vat policy, is not god-given and must be changed if we see that it is outdated and no longer appropriate.
only long-term measures can really solve the problem. however, some may not see the solution to these long-term problems. only short-term measures are offered to help poor families. however, if businesses, transport, fisheries, small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture are failing, these measures are needed for a large population. excise duty was introduced on fuel, mineral fuel, in 1992 all energy was taxed in 2004. does this mean that taxes have no effect? taxes have a huge impact and allowing for an excise tax reduction while long-term measures are in place, i think, would be important. and another moment -- i haven't heard of a new resource (or renewable resource) like hydrogen. china, canada use it to transport cars, japan use it to heat homes.
mr president, i continue in the vein of the previous speaker’s remarks. the russian government should do everything in its power to prove that it did not order the terrorist assassination of a british citizen – which also means a european citizen – alexander litvinenko. as the russian government has failed to prove that it is not giving the orders and even refuses due cooperation with the british investigating authorities, this shows, consequently, that russia’s official involvement in the murder is politically proved. the new russia, as many say, is repeatedly acting like a terrorist state, and at the summit in khanty-mansiysk the eu must call on president medvedev to put a stop to such practices. the mothers of beslan, trying to find out who ordered the attack on the school and the use of bazookas and heavy machine guns against everybody there, including their children, should not have court cases initiated against them. the eu must at least support those weaker than itself, the british government and the beslan mothers.
for the ppe-de group today we are talking about burma, the thousands of political prisoners who are suffering in the country's prisons, and aung san suu kyi, the charismatic leader of the national league for democracy, whose party won 82 percent of the vote in the 1990 elections, but whose generals in power refused to respect the will of the people and who has been under house arrest for 13 years. "that your freedom may help our own", said a nobel peace prize winner. i have no doubt that the burmese people will still defeat the generals' rule. no dictator is eternal, but the spirit of freedom is eternal. we cannot be neutral in the face of barbaric, inhuman behavior. as martin luther king said, "in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends". so today the european parliament is answering the question: who are we with? we are with aung san suu kyi, we are with those thousands of political prisoners! and we demand that they be released immediately so that human rights are respected in burma.
the author. − stop killing children is the main issue, the position expressed by the european parliament in its resolution today. this is also our message to the new majlis of iran, which should understand its duty to urgently amend the iranian penal code to bring it into line with the international commitments of the country, the norms of international law. the execution of minors or of persons who committed crimes as minors in iran is, in my deepest conviction, totally unacceptable behaviour. the united nations high commissioner for human rights recently reminded iran that such a policy is contrary to international law. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its strong conviction and position against the use of the death penalty, and for a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty. we are talking about men, women, children, adolescents, minorities, and so in closing i would like to urge the iranian authorities to stop the execution of those minors who are already sentenced to death, because it is inhumane.
mr president, i hope that nobody in the eu leadership was happy in khanty-mansiysk when the new russian president was mocking european solidarity. now we have the present challenge: are the legitimate existential concerns of smaller littoral states respected or neglected? if those ‘limitrophe’ tribes are not respected and their destiny remains marginal, we are all drawn into a swamp of neo-colonialism inside the new europe. if parliament votes against a truly independent environmental impact assessment and dislikes the prevention of real dangers because big money says bluntly ‘there is no risk of a disaster’ after such positions are proposed as a matter of urgency by one national team, the eu itself as a european idea risks being dumped to a poisoned bottom. colleagues who are listening, go to the tombs of adenauer, schuman and de gasperi and ask how you should vote, especially on the first five gazprom amendments. as for me, i will shake hands with every esteemed german parliamentarian in this house who votes against these amendments by 41 members. those who were misguided may remedy the mistake by abstaining. let europe remain our priority. (applause)
eu countries continue to implement projects with potentially catastrophic environmental consequences when it comes to the impact of human activities on the environment. the northern gas corridor, which was a bilateral business project between germany and russia yesterday, has become an eu priority today. the northern gas corridor runs through the shallow baltic sea, the most polluted in the world, whose seabed is littered with chemical weapons left over from world war ii, and contamination from russian military bases, and runs through the natura 2000 site. independent environmental impact studies are required. in the event of a disaster, coastal communities, ecology, economies of countries will be affected. who's gonna answer for this? the population of the 10 baltic sea states is estimated at about 1 million. it's not just germany and russia, historically accustomed to deciding the fate of other nations. i call on europe to speak with one voice, to look for alternatives to the gas pipeline and to see nuclear energy as a green and secure energy source for the future of the eu.
the eu's environmental policy is based on the principle of sustainable development. my colleagues, russia has not even ratified the osce convention. you promised that even if it did not ratify this document, it would abide by its provisions, which is unconvincing, because we know very well the experience with the energy charter. a group of our colleagues are proposing amendments to the document under consideration today. i have never seen such lobbying by one company in my four years in this parliament. we are well aware of the need for an independent environmental impact assessment and the fact that some have named a particular company as the only one who can do this is completely unacceptable. i support mr libicki's document and i invite others to do the same.
mr president, paragraph 11 of the motion for a resolution states that the european parliament ‘supports the efforts of nato forces to improve security in the country and tackle local and international terrorism, and considers the presence of these forces to be essential in order to ensure the country’s future’. amendment 9, tabled by the rapporteur, is against this position and suggests that the paragraph be deleted. it would be much better if the rapporteur instead stated clearly that parliament supports local and international terrorism and considers the presence of nato forces to be an obstacle to ensuring the country’s taliban future. such an amendment 9 would be a fair anti-afghan and anti-nato game.
mr president, we have full trust in you, but i would be very grateful if you could announce the exact figures of who voted for and against and who abstained.
as we know, more than six months ago several tens of thousands of citizens of the european union countries petitioned our parliament about the environmental impact of the nord stream gas pipeline, and now, more than six months later, they have received the european parliament's reply today, its position on this important issue. i thank all those who voted for this document, thank mr libicki, mr beazley and the other colleagues who contributed a great deal to its preparation, and i am really grateful to all the members of the european parliament who, in voting, took two things into account: firstly, that the european union needs gas, and secondly, that the citizens of the european union living around the baltic sea want to leave a living sea for future generations, not a dead one.
for the alde group the eu does not have a single gas market, it is fragmented, mostly regional. however, some regions in the eu do not have a regional gas market. these are the baltic countries lithuania, latvia, estonia and finland the regions are not integrated with each other and have no connections to the eu gas networks. dependence on a single supplier, which is inclined to use energy for political purposes, is a threat to both the energy and political security of the eu as a whole. the elimination of energy islands, by creating links between countries and regions, must be a top priority of eu energy policy, backed by community finance and political will. the proposals for the gas market in the third energy package can only be implemented in time with eu support and are the instrument that will make the eu more secure. the third path is a five-year period during which the eu and the member states must find the political will and finance to phase out the eu's energy islands from the gas market.
only by breaking up vertical monopolies will we create a well-functioning and secure gas market in the future. of course, the electricity and gas markets are quite different, so we cannot completely reconcile them in our documents, which i think the itre committee did rightly. unfortunately, we have only a few suppliers of gas and we are, and it seems that we will be, vitally dependent on them in the future unless we reduce that dependence to the minimum. the reduction is necessary in all ways and the documents under discussion will be very important for this. let's be realistic about the gas market situation, and that's why we're going to go with the third option. it is necessary to take account of the real situation on the gas market in the member states. for example, lithuania, like the other baltic states, is supplied by the sole gazprom company. clearly, the kremlin wants to maintain and increase its influence in the eu gas sector. and they don't have the financial resources to do it. we have all seen the kind of thinking that is being lobbied for with nord stream and other projects. it's not economics, it's politics, and they're pretty aggressive about it. the way to counteract this dictate is to act in solidarity and to create a common european system and to support and develop projects in the field of alternative energy, including nuclear energy, which requires political will and common finances.
i would like to say to my colleagues that perhaps we should not spend so much time on a foreign fund, but rather talk about our own funds, as pervis said: we invest so much in third countries and we lose money there, so we need investment from asset funds. perhaps we should adjust our economic policies so that the savings of our citizens are safely invested in europe, and then we would have less to worry about with third-country wealth funds. finally, i would like to thank the french presidency for coming to listen to our debates, because slovenia was a smaller country, but i have noticed that slovenian representatives have always been present at the debates in parliament. the french representatives, although france is a large country, are unfortunately not very active yet, and i hope that this debate will encourage them to take a more active part in our meetings.
the notifier. − the objective of this regulation is to ensure the effective and consistent adaptation of community legislation to the internal air transport market. this is critical for the economic and efficient functioning of the air transport services market under harmonised and uniform rules. this regulation replaces and combines three existing regulations: on licensing of carriers and aircraft leasing; on the free use of community air routes by community air carriers; and on liberalised air fares. the regulation before us is based in large part on the experience gained in implementing the legislation currently in force in this field. parliament has completed its first reading of this proposal the commission received comments from interested parties. the council adopted a common position on 18 april 2008. i, the rapporteur, together with the shadow rapporteurs, had extensive discussions with the interested parties and institutions before and after parliament's first reading. in addition, we have met several times with the presidency of the council since parliament's first reading to ensure that the issues of concern to us are reflected in the common position. after careful consideration of the common position, i can confirm that it is in line with the political agreement adopted by the council last december and that it does indeed reflect the issues of concern to us. in order to ensure the proper adaptation of the social rights established, a reference to this is made in the annexes to the document, following the joint statement by the commission and the council that member states should ensure the appropriate adaptation of the rules and conditions of employment, including maximum working hours and minimum rest periods. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline. the definition proposed by parliament on crew and uncrewed leasing arrangements was adopted, as was the position on safety restrictions in the case of crewed aircraft leasing. the commission also notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement with ryanair. the council accepted 29 of parliament's amendments without reservations or in principle and rejected 8 mainly for technical reasons. for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can support the council's general position. i do not think that the additional amendments and the third reading will produce any significant results. we have achieved everything we wanted to achieve and i therefore recommend that the council's common position be adopted, as it was substantially incorporated in parliament's first reading. this position was supported by almost all colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism. the rapid adoption of this law will allow the aviation industry to adapt to the improved regulatory environment, with the number of relevant regulations reduced from three to one. i believe that these important achievements will enable the honourable members to support the proposal to adopt the common position without amendments and to vote in favour of the resolution.
i would like to mention a few provisions of the amending regulation which i believe are of particular importance to our citizens. in particular, passengers, as well as airlines, their owners and aircrew. first, the measures envisaged will not only increase the transparency of air fares, but will also help to combat more effectively the misleading advertising already mentioned today and, finally, unfair competition. secondly, the regulation provides for measures to improve safety, which is also very important to us, and thirdly, the regulation deals with the social rights of air crew, with ensuring them, so i too join in the thanks and congratulations to my colleague mr deguchi and thank him for his work. i look forward to tomorrow's vote.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much for this debate and for parliament's commitment to bringing this text, which is essential for the functioning of the single aviation market, to a successful conclusion. i think we now have a balanced text which incorporates the most important changes, the main amendments of the european parliament at first reading. in particular, i fully support the progress proposed on the main place of establishment and i share the development of the text with regard to the conditions for granting and withdrawing licences, public service obligations and the distribution of traffic between airports. but above all i support the position expressed by the majority of members who have spoken this evening on price transparency and passenger rights. i repeat, in the context of this debate, that it is very important for all of us to defend the rights of passengers, to defend the rights of citizens. so we've committed to transparency. i hope that the proposed regulation, when it is implemented, will be respected by all airlines, by all those who sell tickets. the commission will ensure that the rights of passengers are always respected. that is why i once again congratulate you on the quality of the work, and i think you have done a very good job, mr rapporteur, with the help of the commission and with the help of all those who have taken part in this debate, especially in defending the rights of passing citizens.
the notifier. - i would like to thank my colleagues in the parliament, the commission representatives, and the commission, before we even wait for the results tomorrow. i found this work to be interesting, rewarding, challenging, and rewarding. i would also like to wish the commission every success in the implementation and monitoring of this regulation, because as we know, high prices will put many airlines through difficult times, and it will be of the utmost importance for all of us to defend the rights of any passengers who are violated, especially in the unpleasant event of bankruptcy. so, once again, i want to thank everyone here for your cooperation.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr rack for the text he has drawn up with the help of parliament. i also thank him for his sparkling intervention. i will come and visit him so that next time, as he suggested, we can find an intermodal system to move around the cities. the work done by parliament was certainly positive, as was the debate on three fundamental issues: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of urban mobility in europe, the added value of action at community level and the redistribution of tasks between different levels of government. with the green paper the commission has launched the process for action at european level in the field of urban mobility and transport and our green paper puts urban mobility at the heart of european discussions on how to achieve sustainable mobility for today's society and for future generations. the main reasons for our debate are concerns about climate change, congestion, the health consequences, in particular of air pollution, the security of energy supplies and road safety. the many amendments tabled by the members of the committee on transport during the debate on the draft report and the important contributions made by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on regional development demonstrate the great interest with which the european parliament is following the question of urban mobility, a subject which affects the vast majority of the citizens of the european union. as you know, the green paper consultation concluded on 15 march and we received more than 400 contributions. the views of the parties concerned, and of course the proposals of the european institutions, will provide a valuable input to the next action plan on urban mobility, which i intend to present in the autumn of this year. let us now turn to the report. i appreciated the text's call for a broad european strategy on urban mobility and the recognition that in some areas there is clear added value in action at community level. the report identifies the main areas of intervention in a structured, targeted and also very clear way and so i congratulate professor rack once again. it analyses the role of the european union in various areas: the commission will continue to support the development of the european information society, in particular through the development of the european information society. it also addresses the need for coordination between authorities and an integrated approach and the responsibility of individuals and the issue of funding. i welcome most of the ideas expressed in the text, but i would like to focus on a few specific points among the many issues discussed. i note, for example, that the report confirms the need for comparable data and the need to take account of urban mobility in the other areas of intervention in which the european union has legislative powers. in this context, the proposal for a european platform bringing together data, best practice and information policy, outside bureaucratic structures, certainly deserves further attention. i fully agree with the importance of union guidelines, standardisation and harmonisation of transport systems, particularly for green areas and tolls, if we are to avoid the 'island' solutions developed in various european cities. i also support proposals on the social dimension, designed for specific groups, or proposals to improve education, training and awareness campaigns, which could help to change the behaviour of citizens. as regards financing, i agree with the report that, in addition to making the best possible use of community instruments, new ways must also be found. i would like to conclude by saying that i fully agree with the following observation in the report: there is an urgent need for a new approach and innovative concepts to the mobility of our cities. in accordance with the principles and legislation of the european union, we must promote and not hinder creativity and flexibility at local, regional and national level. that is subsidiarity. your valuable report makes an important contribution to the development of this area of european policy: this is a sector that is of great concern to citizens, businesses and policy-makers across europe, and in particular to local administrators. i thank you again for your attention and congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - i would like to congratulate the active and inventive reporter reinhard rack. if nearly 80% of europeans living in cities follow the cultural recommendations of the urban mobility report, we will all live better and healthier lives. this is a great example of how the eu cares about the well-being of its citizens. the need to expand public transport, the network of cycle paths, and the use of more environmentally friendly vehicles. but the most important and difficult part is changing people's habits. in lithuania, for example, about 50% of all car journeys are less than one kilometre. even young, healthy people forget they have legs, that the bicycle has already been invented. with the commission's help, we should find fiscal and other financial levers that, if recommended and implemented, would remove or at least weigh down the burdens that paralyse the lives of cities and people. or moving, or mobility, or suffocation amongst monsters that eat iron filings.
i would like to note that during our term of office, the european central bank has, through its solid work, gone from being one of the world's central banks to being the world's leading central bank. and now he faces a new challenge to assess his role, his increased role, in the global world. we would like the bank to strengthen its forecasting and management of macroeconomic and financial stability, and given that most crises are now rooted in third countries, it is fair to say that the european central bank has not been very accurate in its assessment of the scale and potential of the crisis. what would that require? well, first of all, to strengthen the coordination between economic policy and monetary policy. the third world is now entering a period of price liberalisation, which i, as the lithuanian representative who has lived through this period, know very well. it can last longer, and we will have a lot of pressure on europe, on european prices, we can overcome this pressure with our monetary policy, which will be more painful for our economy, or we can help third world countries to adjust their tax policies faster and stabilize prices. we could do this, mr juncker, by taking a more active part in the international monetary fund or the world bank. this is one of the measures that would help stabilise inflation in third world countries and at the same time ease the burden on the european central bank in setting monetary policy. another aspect i would like to mention, which is very worrying to me, is that the european settlement system is not fully developed, although the european central bank is doing a lot in implementing sepa, developing the target 2 security system, but the problem is much more complex.
for the alde group i congratulate the rapporteur, mr lambert, and thank him for his cooperation in the preparation of this document. a regulation defines the order and deals with specific, everyday problems of people. it does not seek to harmonise social security systems. this is an implementation procedure which does not preclude the existence of different protection systems in the member states. yet, they do not let their differences cause them to hurt one another. president sarkozy, speaking in this chamber after the elections a year ago, said that the french felt that europe was not taking care of them and was not providing social protection. the irish may not have understood what they could expect from europe either. today, france and all of us have the chance to show our people that their daily problems are being solved at community level. unfortunately, i am not aware of a unanimous view within the council on the commission's proposal for a period of time for member states to agree on the arrangements. the author also suggests taking your time. my group has proposed amendments which oblige the member states to resolve the issues of reconciliation and settlement between themselves within six months, rather than delaying them for a year and a half. no one should suffer because of the inaction of the institutions or the delay in taking decisions. this regulation can be the best example of how to build citizens' trust in europe and its institutions. i therefore urge you, colleagues, to vote in favour of these amendments. it is a concrete and understandable help for every one of our citizens. we are elected to represent not governments, not institutions, but our people.
today, after a second reading in the european parliament, we voted in favour of a document on common rules for the provision of air services in the european union. we are amending the regulation which has been in force since 1992, and i would like to stress once again the amendments which are very important for our citizens, in particular for passengers and airline crews. i am talking about the measures envisaged, which will not only increase the transparency of air fares but also effectively combat misleading advertising and unfair competition in the area of connecting services. the amendments are also important, as they should ensure better compliance with aviation safety standards and social guarantees for aircrew. the disagreements with the commission and the council appear to have been resolved and the regulation should enter into force at the end of the year. it remains to be expected that the revised regulation will be properly implemented in all member states of the european union.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr von vogel, on his important and timely report. the main idea, i think, can be formulated as follows: more peace in space, more cooperation between eu countries and with other countries, more funding for joint european union space projects. i support the proposed amendments which further emphasise the importance of galileo as a purely civilian project and reject any possibility of using space for military purposes. more and more countries are getting involved in space projects, and space itself is playing an increasing role in our lives. satellite systems, whether military or civilian, for monitoring and surveying the earth, and telecommunications navigation for determining time and place, are becoming the eyes and ears of all of us. the classics of geopolitics have long said: whoever dominates space dominates the world. the european union is not seeking supremacy. a multipolar world, where the rights of all nations are guaranteed, is much more attractive. but a united force in space of 27 eu countries would be capable of more successful civilian and preventive autonomous operations under a common foreign and security policy. it could also provide the union with an important advantage in monitoring proliferation and verifying the implementation of international agreements. eu countries have developed a number of space systems to meet their security needs. more effective standardisation is necessary in the earth observation and telecommunications satellite sectors in order to avoid unnecessary duplication, to better exploit the potential of the systems and to reduce costs. intensive interaction between the space activities of the eu is required. the eu should provide solid funding for this cooperation and create a common budget to avoid wasteful spending and effort by individual countries. now that negotiations have begun on a new eu-russia strategic partnership agreement, we have a good opportunity to foresee even more fruitful cooperation in space. of course, we can develop cooperation in space with the us and nato.
madam president, my oral amendment is to paragraph 8, which urges the chinese authorities to stop discrimination against various groups. my proposal is to insert, after ‘trade union activists’, the words ‘falun gong members’. these are people who practise a particular kind of movement and breathing, but they are treated as dissidents and persecuted by the communist authorities.
i would say about the document, about china. i voted for it, but i regret that many important amendments were rejected. we said today that the situation in tibet is normal, which is not true. we refused to invite the tibetan spiritual leader to the general affairs council, which is a very bad decision, we even managed to vote against the people who practice falun gong, so i regret it, and i think we should come back to these issues as soon as possible.
madam president, i want to say only that i and many in my group have been confused by the voting list because, following its suggestions, we have voted for some absurd positions. to invite the dalai lama – no, against. the situation in tibet is not normal – no, we have voted that it is normal. many of us have been confused. of course, i tried to correct the situation, but the information was falsified and our list was highly incorrect.
we are well aware that the armed conflict in jammu and kashmir has been going on for decades. but what is important today is that despite the indian government's commitment to not tolerate human rights abuses in jammu and kashmir, reports of human rights abuses continue to reach the world community, and now also of the many unmarked graves containing hundreds of unidentified remains. we want and need to know who these people were, who they were abused by, what they were and what they were guilty of. we not only condemn the killings and enforced disappearances, but also demand that the indian government conduct an independent and thorough investigation of the mass graves and, before that, secure them in order to preserve the evidence. i am confident that the european commission will find ways to provide financial and technical support to the indian government to carry out these investigations.
bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world. it is one of the most densely populated countries in the world. bangladesh is the country most at risk from climate change. after all, it is one of the most undemocratic countries in the world. i have identified four problems, four threats, at least one of which could be a problem for even a prosperous country, and breaking that chain should be a restoration of democracy, and today's debate should be a push towards that.
the author. − the european parliament has adopted a number of resolutions calling for the abolition, non-application or at least a moratorium on the use of the death penalty in countries where it has not yet been abolished. and today we, the european parliament, stand with a man we have never seen before, troy davies, who is due to be executed at the end of this month. can you imagine yourself in his place? 17 years waiting for a acquittal or execution, with a lot of evidence of innocence, 7 witnesses who testified against him, withdrawing their testimony, etc.? after all, we know of so many cases where the death sentence was carried out and the man was later found innocent. we also know of hundreds of cases where death sentences were not carried out because the convicted were later found innocent. we therefore call again today on all states around the world that still have the death penalty to take immediate steps to abolish it. today, we are speaking out against the death penalty in support of a specific individual, asking the appropriate u.s. courts to reconsider the case of troy davies and to commute his death sentence to a more lenient sentence. i think that standing up for a particular person, not allowing another person to be killed, even if they have committed a very grave mistake or sin, is the best way to express a position on the need to abolish the death penalty worldwide.
mr president, the day before yesterday i had a long dinner conversation with one of the wisest heads of europe, otto von habsburg. he said that, based on his broad knowledge of the facts, european governments have been enormously corrupted, as it is well known that russia is using a new secret weapon against the west – namely global bribery. today’s council meeting might shed more light on that dark corner of european politics. if the council and our parliament, the last fortress of political conscience in europe, do not demand immediate withdrawal of russian occupation forces from poti and the buffer zones established by the occupier, then political disaster would appear to be looming for our fading europe. those zones are most needed by russian and ossetian smugglers in order to prevent georgia having any control at the internal borders between the puppet ossetia and the still independent georgia. the idea of giving the occupier until the eu-russia summit in november to build fortifications is totally wrong, and points to the fact that otto von habsburg is probably right. (applause)
mr president, the commission’s first year report on the european globalisation fund states that over 13 000 redundant employees in eight member states are being helped. 3.7% of available funds have been distributed. obviously it is very slow. the commission’s suggestions are to simplify procedures, broadly promote the programme, spread best experience and expand the duration of assistance, and i welcome these measures. the fund was established to show solidarity with the redundant employees of companies failing due to globalisation. therefore it is most important that these funds reach real people who need help. they shall not be distributed among intermediaries, trainers or brochure publishers. in one year we will find out what the actual results are. it is not how much money has been distributed, but how many redundant employees found new jobs. i call on the commission and member states to establish proper criteria and benchmarks in order to evaluate the results achieved. we must ensure efficient use of the european budget.
president of the council. - it is true that the unemployment rate among young people remains very high, even though the situation has improved on average in the union in recent years. i think there are three actions we need to focus on. first of all, it is necessary to ensure that training is actually better adapted to the needs of the market, in particular the labour market, and to ensure that the training axes are more in line with the competitiveness strategy being pursued in the framework of lisbon. the second point concerns the establishment of a dialogue with employers and the social partners so that there is a better social responsibility of enterprises to promote the social integration of young people. and here each of the companies in europe, especially the larger ones, has a special responsibility. thirdly, i believe that we must also aim at establishing networks of excellence at the educational level and encourage mobility between our countries and facilitate the recognition of diplomas and qualifications, so that the european labour market can be more fluid.
president of the council. - madam president, mr president-in-office, i may be less manic than you in my presentation. i do think that there is enthusiasm among young people for europe and, it is true, that this must be taken into account, which does not mean that those of another generation, who built it, are less enthusiastic. unfortunately, you have both at the european level. the opinion polls also show - as we have seen recently - that sometimes the opposition can be more radical and we must work more in depth. as regards the pact which is being drawn up to mobilise young people and make europe more concrete, i believe very strongly that we must facilitate the crossborder mobility of our young people and that we must - thanks to these programmes, the means for which must be increased, i know that this will take several years, that it is a long-term effort - have programmes in the revision of the common policies framework which will ensure that the mobility of our young people and our children is increased, whether for students, or, as i said, for apprentices or young employees in the context of traineeships or vocational training. i believe that this is the way we are really going to succeed in making europe more concrete, that we are going to be able to make their enthusiasm bear fruit and draw lots so that we have, in accordance with what you want and what i also want, a new european generation.
president of the council. - mr evans, i am glad you are here because i would like to understand the meaning of the question. i may have misunderstood it, so perhaps you'll clarify it. in south america, there are some outermost regions which are territories that are an integral part of the european union and which, as such, benefit from specific policies. but there is no south american state as such which is a member of the european union. but i take every precaution, i may not have grasped all the subtleties of the matter. as regards turkey and croatia, considerable progress has been made since the opening of negotiations with these countries. in the case of turkey, for example, the screening, which is the first formal step for each chapter, was completed for 23 chapters and eight chapters were opened for negotiation, one of which was provisionally closed. as far as our presidency is concerned, we believe we can open two more chapters with regard to turkey. as far as croatia is concerned, the screening is over. 21 chapters have been opened, of which three have been provisionally closed. there was an accession conference on 25 july and the chapter on the movement of goods, the first chapter, which was quite sensitive, was opened and chapter 20, on enterprise and industrial policy, was closed. the progress of the negotiations, as you know, depends mainly on the results achieved by the candidate countries. the progress made in meeting the criteria for opening and closing chapters and the requirements foreseen in the negotiations, including the revised accession partnerships, are essential elements in this respect and, of course, we refer to a commission judgment. i repeat, i would be very happy, if i have answered a little off-hand, if you could clarify the exact scope of your question, mr evans.
president of the council. - thank you, mr evans. i was afraid i had missed the point of your question, lest i should hear the additional clarification. more seriously, firstly, the outermost regions, the overseas countries and territories, all of which are called overseas, are part of the european union, and are an important part of it, wherever these territories are located and whether they are linked to france, spain, portugal, the united kingdom ... you referred to the overseas departments that exist. these departments have been french since the 17th century. their inhabitants have been french citizens since 1848 - so this is not new - and all this was taken into account from the very beginning, from the founding pact of what was the european community, then the european union. the other point you make - but i think this is an effort to influence europe beyond the seas which must be extended - concerns the type of policy that must be pursued. there is an effort here which i believe is important to make, not because it is french, but because - i repeat - it is also a question of influence. the other point you have raised, which is one of the council's concerns, also concerns - without being nominalistic - a difficult subject, namely how to ensure that we do not have offshore places, whether they are located overseas or whether they are located in the continental framework or close to the continent. this is a problem, it is true. there has been a number of work that has been carried out in the framework of the ecofin council. there have been a number of proposals that have been made, and we still want to make sure that we can effectively fight tax havens, both within the union and within the international conventions to which the union is party.
i would like to ask, not in all seriousness, whether there is any thought of changing the name to the european union and south america? and then maybe, if turkey is included, we can also include asia? well, seriously, i would like to ask you, however, very little is known about these overseas territories by the citizens of the european union. could an information campaign run by the european union raise awareness of these issues, bring them closer together and, in particular, help young european citizens to understand these territories better, so that the issues that arise today are not overlooked?
the commission proposal on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered vehicles is of great importance in addressing the challenges of the search for alternative transport fuels, environmental protection and climate change, and human health. i want to highlight a few aspects that are very important in the development of hydrogen cars. first of all, the main problem of hydrogen transport is not their production, but the filling of hydrogen. at present, there are only around 40 hydrogen fuelling stations in europe, including two in france, one in spain and none in the member states that joined the european union in 2004 and 2007. only the u.s. state of california has that many gas stations. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for the urgent need to establish a standardised hydrogen refuelling network throughout the eu. without the right infrastructure, hydrogen-powered cars will remain as single models. secondly, hydrogen is only a carrier of energy, not an energy source, and it is therefore important that hydrogen fuel is produced in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way. more research is needed to avoid the use of fossil fuels for hydrogen production and to propose alternative ways of decomposing water into hydrogen and oxygen. one such approach could be photolysis, but this still requires extensive scientific research and the clean production of hydrogen would allow it to be used in other areas than transport. thirdly, i support the commission's proposal to use hydrogen and natural gas blends, but only as a transitional fuel and only in countries with well-developed natural gas infrastructure. and i also want to point out that the united states, canada, japan are ahead in the development and production of hydrogen-powered cars, so let's not be left behind.
european politicians, long silent, have called russia's actions in georgia a disproportionate reaction. no, it's a military aggression masked by the defense of russian rights in other countries. some eu countries, blocking the prospect of georgia and ukraine choosing their own path to nato membership, have allowed russia to pursue an aggressive policy of territorial annexation. many eu countries are dependent on russian energy imports, fear gas pipeline jams and this allows russia to start dictating conditions to the eu as a whole in a truly disproportionate way. i voted in favour of the resolution, but i am not clear about the position of both the council and parliament on the future relationship with russia.
in writing. - i voted for two of the five amendments because i think that russia is expressing its claims to the territorial integrity of the former soviet union in various ways. russia's success in georgia is a testament to its ability to protect the rights of its citizens, but when it invades a sovereign country it is effectively occupying it. i think that the eu, as well as this resolution, must be clear when it says that russia's expansionist ambitions are unfounded and unrealistic, especially with regard to the baltic states. in voting against paragraph 27 (2), i believe that the eu has no right to decide with georgia on the process of integration into nato. the possibility was only established when, on 3 march 2008, nato approved georgia's accession to the organisation, but the decision on accession is a matter for georgia's own sovereign decision-making.
in writing. − i believe that advertising is a powerful tool shaping identity, values, beliefs and attitudes and has an undeniable impact on public behaviour. on the other hand, uncontrollable advertising can have adverse affects on the self-esteem of women – in the case of sexual services advertisements in newspapers – and particularly teenagers and those susceptible to eating disorders. we must ensure the protection of our children from damaging influences and, in this regard, the role of schools and education must not be underestimated. i also support the proposal that the commission and the member states should develop a 'code of conduct' for advertising based on the principle of equality between men and women.
clearly, the political effectiveness of sanctions is controversial. we have examples of sanctions imposed by a ruling regime that have hurt innocent people, indirectly encouraging a shadow economy, a black market. there are cases where blacklisting poses a risk of human rights violations. the credibility of sanctions is also weakened by the fact that they are often applied with a double standard depending on the strategic importance of the eu partner. the eu has not imposed sanctions, even after russia violated international law and invaded the sovereign state of georgia in an attempt to protect its citizens. well, they're still in the eu's arsenal of tools. i believe that sanctions are and must remain an integral part of the common foreign and security policy, more specifically as a tool for the promotion of human rights and democracy. understandably, the eu is trying to combine honey and botany methods, trying to avoid sanctions, but they are applicable where necessary and it is important that they become part of a broader and more coherent human rights strategy. the rapporteur, helene flautre, referred to the arms embargo against china, a measure taken after the tiananmen massacres. there have been calls to lift the embargo, but, gentlemen, we have yet to hear an explanation or an apology for the tiananmen square massacre that shook the free world. so why should we lift this sanction? i would like to stress that the european union must cooperate better, coordinate its policies and actions with other countries and international organisations in applying sanctions, in order to make them more effective.
the european parliament has started to consider a proposal from the european commission on the so-called blue card for attracting highly qualified professionals from third countries to the european union's labour market. parties are being asked to commit not to invite specialists from developing countries in sensitive sectors - education and health - but some of our countries, including the united kingdom and others, are not going to commit to that commitment. it turns out we give with one hand and take with the other. we will attract specialists from the health sector, a sector that is already understaffed, which means that women's health, the health of the whole of society, will be at even greater risk and in worse conditions. i would suggest that we consider whether the legislation we adopt is in conflict with each other, whether our policies are in conflict with each other.
member of the commission. - the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system of compensation for the victims of the disaster is properly implemented. in the case of greece and sunflower oil from ukraine, it is true that on 23 april 2008 a general notice was given that this contaminated sunflower oil was on the market in the european union. on may 5, 2008, when the swiss authorities gave specific notice to the center, here, that this sunflower oil was being funneled to greece, italy and turkey, among others, then the greek authorities did the necessary investigations and started to give us the information and to recall the products. but what i want to stress is that we must not confuse the measures which the european commission has the power to take and which it takes with the obligations of the member states, which is an internal matter for the member states. of course you'll tell me, are there any tests? yes, they do. there is this service, the fvo, which goes from time to time to different member states, checks that the services are working and identifies any weaknesses and points them out to the member states. this is of course the case with greece and other countries.
i wanted to ask you: what is a food crisis? can the introduction of an unsafe food product on the european union market be considered a food crisis? and then we could talk about the toy crisis, because there are unsafe toys, and there are all kinds of unsafe products. what is a food crisis? is this not a price increase without justification, which is harmful to all consumers?
member of the commission. − this information is well known in my dg as well, but actually this falls rather more within the scope of my fellow commissioner, viviane reding, because it is also related to the freedom of information which comes very broadly within the scope of the activities of her dg. what i can tell you is that we have the tv without borders directive, which tackles such issues, and we have our black list in the unfair commercial practices directive. the reason why we have such a tool as a black list is that, if there is a need, and if we have enough evidence, we can add a practice to the black list when we agree that it is something which we need to target and ban all over europe. of course, such action needs to be evidence-based. so we are fully aware of the problem. it is not directly part of unfair commercial practices (ucp) but we are ready to look at it if there is a practice which we could consider as meriting inclusion on a black or grey list, and commissioner reding is doing her best to be certain that the tv without borders directive is tackling issues like these.
55 percent of the food advertised on television is unhealthy food. 80 percent of children ask their parents for the same breakfast that was advertised on television. my question is: could the community, by pooling its efforts, focus on more than just advertising? it's advertised by the manufacturers. what measures would encourage producers to produce and promote more healthy food?
member of the commission. − concerning cross-border problems with teaching materials, we have european consumer centres whose work is based on consumer cooperation regulation and which are good ambassadors for consumer rights all over europe. in the event of a cross-border disagreement between a consumer and the provider of an educational service, book or material, the consumer can approach a consumer centre. if the consumer cannot solve the issue directly, the consumer centre in his country can help him get a satisfactory solution in the country of origin of the educational services or material. i do not have with me a full record of all the different experiences and cases in the various member states, but can tell you that these european consumer centres meet together several times per year. it is already a very enhanced and good network, and most of the centres are very active and able to solve the issues raised by consumers. since the question referred to the education sector, the centres could be asked for information on how they have solved such issues. however, the basic principle is the same, and this regulation is functioning really well.
member of the commission. − i fully and gladly recognise the value of your suggestions and your input. opening up a little more the scope of my answer, i would like to say that we are at the stage of completion of the internal market, which really is a foundation of the union. however, so far the market has been very much oriented to business and to having the right conditions for business, and quite rightly so. now, though, we need to complete the internal market with a second stage in which consumers feel everywhere equally welcome and equally well protected. that is the consumer policy for the 21st century. i am very glad to report back to you that, in the consumer strategy 2007-2015, education aimed at empowering consumers is the first and very basic pillar of the consumer strategy. i cannot tell you more now, but we have tools like europe diary, which precisely targets teenagers, and we have dolcetta, which is a complement to teacher education, but we are very much reliant on the efforts of the member states. we need to see this policy from the point of view of subsidiarity. there are countries which are ready to invest more in consumer education and to support the overall commission efforts. i have written to all the relevant ministers asking them for their support, because we are at a really crucial stage as regards having an equally well-performing consumer market all over europe. in the future we will talk more about how consumers feel in this internal market. that is one very basic remark. another is that we need to tackle consumer complaints more, and more broadly. we do not have a common base in the european commission for consumer complaints. like you we receive many complaints, some of which are despatched from parliament to the commission, from your constituencies, but what we need to build on is how to deal with those complaints. the commission cannot repeat the efforts of an ombudsman or of a member state, but if there is a persistent problem in one or other area of consumer policy, we need to tackle it, including with legislation. there are good examples which show that consumer complaints could really reorient the mainstream of consumer policy. what we are trying to do now is gather such kinds of information using the consumer market scoreboard. the first edition of the consumer market scoreboard took place at the beginning of this year. we have a special indictor: consumer complaints. we compare the member states to see how many complaints they are tackling and in what kind of areas. i eagerly await the information from the member states for the next edition of consumer market scoreboards at the beginning of next year. so, step by step, we are heading in the direction of one internal market for citizens.
member of the commission. − this is about the internet, which is a very important issue. the internet presents an enormous opportunity for consumers. it gives them access to better information and expands the size of the market they operate in, giving them access to more providers and more choice. already, 150 million eu citizens – a third of our population – shop over the internet. the rapid growth in the number of eu citizens buying online is not matched by the growth in the number of those who do so cross-border, however. this shows that the commission is right in addressing the issue, which is linked to consumer confidence with a range of information measures. the online digital user’s guide, which is being prepared by the commission, has to be mentioned. it will be published online by the end of 2008. as a follow-up to the guide, one could consider drawing up guidelines on how to implement the unfair commercial practices legislation with regard to unfair commercial practices emerging online. another tool about which we have already talked is dolceta, which is geared towards educating consumers, for example on distance selling and consumer redress. educating young consumers who are particularly active online is crucial. the consumer diary, with a record distribution of 2.8 million copies (and this information might also be interesting for mr angelakas) in more than 18 000 schools this year, includes information on internet use and cross-border redress. the consumer policy strategy 2007-2013 foresees actions related to consumer information as part of its priority – better informed and educated consumers. the main tools the european commission uses to inform citizens and stakeholders about consumer policy in this framework are a website, the consumer voice newsletter and information campaigns. the letter contains e-commerce as a major campaign theme in several newer member states. concerning the second question, which concerns enforcement and redress, the commission strongly believes that, in order to make the internal market work, european consumers must be confident that they can enforce their rights and obtain redress across the european union. complaints relating to e-commerce, including complaints regarding non-delivery of products or delivery of unsatisfactory products, may be addressed under the current eu redress framework that we have already set up for european consumers. this framework includes the ecc-net, the two commission recommendations on alternative dispute resolution, the recently adopted mediation directive, and the regulation establishing a european small claims procedure. the commission is also in the process of considering whether an eu initiative on consumer collective redress is necessary and, if so, what type of initiative that should be. i am fully convinced that the screen is a new marketplace.
commissioner, you spoke very convincingly about the expansion of e-commerce and i am sure that it is happening faster in the old countries of the european union. i would like to ask how the commission is promoting this trade in the countries that have joined the european union in the 21st century and how it is protecting the rights of consumers and how it is working to bring that proportion down. and i would like to ask you, where are these abuses more prevalent -- or, say, in the old countries or in the new countries?
in writing. − in the context of the common foreign and security policy, the eu applies restrictive measures, or sanctions, to ensure compliance with the cfsp objectives. the current eu sanctions policy suffers from excessive ad-hoc cases, which often result in incoherence and inconsistency. i believe that the commission should play a more proactive role in defining a clear eu policy on sanctions. i believe that the ep must be very precise when talking about sanctions, and especially when calling for eu action in response to violations of international law, as the house did in this report on israel. i believe that before asking the eu to impose any sanctions, we must be well informed about concrete breaches of international law and should refrain from making statements of a generic nature. if there are factual cases, they have to be specified in the text or presented in a footnote to the respective document.
in writing. − the resolution of the ep on maternal mortality carries a great significance in the light of the millennium development goals and conveys our message that we are aware of the current situation and that we call for action to help millions of women in developing countries. i strongly support the suggestion to ask the commission and the council to develop programmes and policies that would help to prevent maternal mortality, with a particular emphasis on access to information on sexual and reproductive health, literacy and nutrition. within the context of this resolution, i believe that the use of contraceptives is very important in preventing diseases, unwanted pregnancies and reducing maternal mortality, but at the same time i am convinced that we do not have a right to condemn or criticise churches, which stand merely as a moral but not as a legislative authority, promoting their faith but not prohibiting making a personal choice. furthermore, there are churches which do not address the issues of contraception to their congregation.
in writing. − during the votes i have expressed my position by voting against the amendments of the gue group. the port sector is of crucial importance to the european union from economic, commercial, social, environmental and strategic points of view. however, bearing in mind the importance of the sector, i cannot support the approach that ports should constitute public property. on the contrary, i support the right of the member states to take their best interests into account in deciding whether or not to open the port sector to liberalisation. decisions on whether to privatise and/or to apply private and public partnership in ports are the competence of the member states and shall not be directed by european institutions as long as it is in compliance with european legislation. in fact, some european ports are already managed by authorities or companies from third countries. in my view, the port sector, as any other sector, should be allowed to operate on an equally competitive basis.
for the ppe-de group it is regrettable that in august, the generals in mauritania staged yet another military coup, which unfortunately will hit ordinary citizens the hardest. the fact that the world bank decided to suspend its support to the country in the bad economic and social situation after the coup has made the situation worse and will soon be felt by the people of the country. the assessment of the situation can only be one: we condemn the planners and the perpetrators of the coup and demand that the constitutional and civil order be restored in this country as soon as possible. we also demand the immediate release of president sidi mohamed cheikh abdallahi and the return of members of the government to their duties. a military coup is not the way out of the crisis. only political debate, free and fair elections can bring any country out of its constitutional crisis, and it is our duty as the european union to help overcome the crisis as quickly and efficiently as possible by providing the necessary assistance to the country's population, which is the most vulnerable in the economic and food crisis.
mr president, i would like to draw colleagues’ attention to the fact that in iran hundreds of people are being executed every year. that is the result of the failed policy our union has been conducting with iran in recent years. we ought to know that only strong internal opposition in iran is capable of changing that situation. my question today is why does the eu continue to keep the iranian opposition movement on a black list, despite the fact that the british courts ordered it to be removed from that list? is it not time for the council, under the current presidency, to live up to its obligation of respect for the rule of law and to remove opposition movements from the black list once and for all? i believe that mrs ferrero-waldner could take the necessary steps.
the author. - today we are discussing a case of discrimination against a minority. the minority of albinos in tanzania are being killed, maimed, and even children are being killed. this is a problem that is relevant across sub-saharan africa, and i would remind you that one in every 20,000 people in the world is an albino. as my colleague mentioned, in tanzania witches sell the cut body parts and blood of albinos to miners and fishermen, who naively believe that this will bring them luck, health and wealth. our position is clear: the extermination and discrimination of albinos is completely intolerable and unacceptable. the tanzanian government must take consistent measures to put an end to this. the president of tanzania, the government has taken some steps, and we welcome them, but they are not enough. the trial of 173 suspects in the killing of the albinos will be a litmus test for the tanzanian government's policies and the perpetrators must be punished. but what would really help is education, proper health care, access to it for everyone in this country, including albinos. and this is where the international community, including the european union, should help to overcome these problems. after all, many albinos die of skin cancer before the age of 30.
madam president, some time ago we had a hot debate about investment banks. now investment banks have gone from the market, and we are feeling good with the current rules for the banking sector. the same issue is relevant to hedge funds. hedge funds, in the current environment, are not sustainable any more, and i do think that we just need the same rules for all investment funds rather than specific rules for hedge funds. with these rules, mr rasmussen, we are actually hindering restructuring of the financial sector, and the losses will mount. that means that, in the end, you will not be able to protect the ordinary people you want to protect.
in writing. − both global and local financial markets are developing complex financial instruments, making it very difficult for financial institutions to develop adequate regulations and supervise systems. as a result of this, there are possibilities for actions which are not transparent and cases of speculations by financial market participants, which lead to the perversion of the financial markets. in this regard, i support amendment 2 tabled by the greens group, which calls for substantial reinforcement of the european regulatory and supervisory framework in order to maintain financial stability.
in writing. − i have always been in favour of market liberalisation, because i believe that it is the key to competition between market participants, which is always beneficial for the consumer, because it gives him the opportunity to choose and buy quality goods or services at the lowest price. however, in voting on the report on transparency for inter-institutional investors, i supported the rapporteur, mr lehne, who asks the commission to propose rules that would prohibit investors from 'grabbing' companies (so-called asset sales in pieces) and abusing their financial power in a way that would only cause problems for the acquired company afterwards and would have no positive impact in the future on the interests of the acquired company, its employees, creditors and business partners. i think the european commission should investigate whether member states have implemented measures to counter the sale of assets in pieces.
in writing. − spectrum, like other natural resources (sun, water, air), is a public good; market mechanisms alone, while effective in generating optimal economic value (private and public), cannot satisfy the common interest and provide the public goods necessary to create an information society. a balance between policy and market instruments is therefore necessary. better coordination and greater flexibility are necessary if we are to make effective use of this limited resource. however, a certain balance between the level of flexibility and harmonisation is also necessary in order to increase the added value of spectrum in the internal market. for spectrum, there are no national borders. the effective use of spectrum by a member state requires closer eu coordination, in particular in the case of the development of european services and the negotiation of international agreements. while spectrum management is left to national competence, only eu principles ensure that eu interests can be effectively defended in the world.
in writing. − the laws of the member states provide definitions of natural mineral water. those laws lay down the conditions under which natural mineral water is recognised as natural mineral water and they regulate the conditions of use of the springs. they shall lay down the specific rules for the placing on the market of such water. the differences between these laws impede the free movement of natural mineral waters by creating different conditions of competition and therefore have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. in this particular case, the existing obstacles can be removed by an obligation for each member state to allow the placing on the market in its territory of natural mineral waters recognised by another member state and by laying down general rules for compliance with microbiological requirements and conditions under which certain mineral waters are to bear a particular name. the primary objective of any rules applicable to natural mineral water is to protect the health of consumers, to prevent consumers from being misled and to ensure fair trade.
in writing. − more than 1 million signatures of community citizens were collected in support of a citizens' action organised at european union level for the single european parliament seat. this gave the right to apply to the european parliament's committee on petitions for a permanent seat in the european parliament. i believe that the current system for organising the work of the european parliament is inefficient and requires unjustified financial resources. this is a waste of community taxpayers' money, which could and should be used in a targeted way to create added value for people. in the 2005 report on the european parliament's budgetary approval, i also proposed that the european parliament should work in one place, that members should not have to pay for their travel and that parliament should not have to pay for the cost of both members' own travel and the cost of parliament's staff being seconded. however, in today's vote i did not support the amendments tabled on behalf of the green group on the single european parliament seat in brussels. i think it is wrong to say that brussels should be the sole permanent seat of the european parliament, because this is something that the member states themselves have to agree on, it is their responsibility.
maritime safety, rapid incident response and investigation are of particular importance to the baltic states. the baltic sea, closed and shallow, with a water change of only one every thirty years, is particularly vulnerable. as shipping in the baltic sea intensifies, we know from lithuania's experience that so far there has been little clarity on the rules of the game and that disputes and disorder are often followed by an incident. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her important work. we should not agree with the council's proposal that safety investigations should only be mandatory after very large incidents. it is not only very large disasters and incidents at sea that cause very large damage to the ecology, the economy and the well-being of nations. the reduction of bureaucratic mechanisms should in no way compromise the quality of the investigations. it is essential that a uniform incident investigation methodology is applied in all member states of the european union.
indeed, it is a pleasure to discuss a programme which should be a continuation of the previous programmes and of the previous year. we see in the first pillar the fight against the global financial crisis. this is firefighting. the crisis has been going on for a year and we haven't noticed it, we haven't taken any action. i want to draw attention to energy policy. three years ago we decided to develop a common energy policy. it is a long, complex, labor-intensive process and there should be a coherence of actions. i do not see any mention of any action on energy this time. the legislation adopted does not in itself create or implement an energy policy, a common energy policy. there are no connections, there is no search for alternative sources, there is no work on arctic problems, on arctic potential sources. so there is no long-term common energy perspective, and we could have the same situation as the financial crisis. we'll be surprised if something happens to the energy, then we'll take action. so, let's just get on with the work.
in writing. − the primary objective of all legislation on medicinal products must be the protection of public health. this objective must, however, be achieved in such a way as not to hinder the development of industry in the community or trade in medicinal products. although the previous directives established a list of food colours, different countries have different laws on them. these differences can impede trade in colouring matters and the directive has therefore had to be recast to provide clarity and facilitate the work of many institutions.
in writing. − the liberalisation of the european telecommunications market has brought many benefits to the community as a whole, and increased competition in the sector has become a major driver of investment and innovation. i agree with the commission that this market still needs to be regulated before the telecommunications market can operate under common competition laws. however, i cannot in principle agree with the commission's proposal to create another regulatory authority, which would only increase the bureaucratic burden and distance itself from the regulated markets in the member states. i voted in favour of the amendments to the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) which propose to extend the functions of the existing european telecommunications regulators authority (etri) and to give the european commission additional powers. national telecoms regulators should cooperate more closely with the etsi and the european commission. i believe that the itre proposal will not only allow market players to be regulated more effectively, but will also ensure the effective participation of national regulatory authorities and the use of their experience at community level. it will also help to avoid the waste of taxpayers' money by creating yet another bureaucratic machine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2009 and regret that it was not adopted. it is of particular importance that the commission present a communication assessing the implementation by member states of the directive and of the regulation on the coordination of social security systems within the member states. in preparing this document, i said as a shadow rapporteur that these documents are important for every citizen of the community. they define order and solve specific, everyday problems of people. it does not seek to harmonise social security systems. this is an implementation procedure which does not preclude the existence of different social security systems in the member states. yet, they do not let their differences cause them to hurt one another. the daily well-being of every community citizen depends on the implementation of these documents. i regret that the commission will not be entrusted with the task of verifying what has been done in the member states in the field of the construction of transeuropean energy networks, and that it may take some time to complete the single energy market and to ensure energy security throughout the community. this is a vital issue for lithuania, latvia and estonia, and the institutions of the european union, and in particular the commission, must take concrete action to end as soon as possible the energy isolation of these member states and their dependence on russia, the sole supplier of gas and oil.
mr president, it is a pity that mr schulz has already left. i wanted to make the point that it is too early to say who will go bankrupt, because nobody knows who the end-investors in the toxic assets are. maybe they are state-owned banks. nevertheless, i would like to encourage a broader view of events and to recall that parliament, as early as the beginning of this year, put forward some valid proposals which were not accepted by the council and the commission. firstly, we asked for economic management at eu level to be brought into line with global developments and for the broad economic guidelines to be updated. we also suggested ensuring vigorous enforcement of eu competition rules and not allowing the crowding-out of small and medium-sized business from the market, or the creation of monsters which are too big to fall. we have to promote and preserve our national, traditional business culture because the slogan of the european union is ‘in diversity we are united’.
to solve energy problems, we need a common energy policy with both domestic and foreign policy aspects. we must create a single market. the third energy package is the foundation for this. but the directive itself will not do that. we need to support this financially and actually to build connections, both in gas and electricity, and that will ensure our energy security. the external dimension, the european union, like the wto, must speak with one voice. the commission must have the power to negotiate energy prices. not as individual countries, but as one big player in the world market, we can talk about prices. we need to look at the big picture: who are our energy suppliers? are we not putting in pipelines that are potentially gas-free, as allegedly with nord stream? do we see the arctic as a potential energy source? i would also like to mention that the short-term measures are a very important aspect. this is a matter of negotiations with opec countries and excise duties.
member of the commission. − the subject of the first question is covered in detail in the commission’s 2008 report on public finances in the emu. the only significant budgetary development which is not covered there is the recent launch of the excessive-deficit procedure for the united kingdom. given that the budget deficit in the uk is expected by the commission to exceed the 3% reference value in both fiscal years 2008-2009 and 2009-2010, in accordance with article 104(6) of the treaty, the council has decided this year that an excessive deficit does exist in the united kingdom. on the same occasion, in accordance with article 104(7) of the treaty, the council set a deadline of one year for the correction of this excessive deficit. more generally, in line with its mandate under the treaty and the stability and growth pact, the commission is continuously monitoring the economic and budgetary development in member states and stands ready to activate the instruments of budgetary surveillance where necessary. the answer to the second question is positive, particularly with reference to the corrective arm. since the 2005 reform, excessive deficits have been corrected, with currently only the uk and hungary subject to the excessive-deficit procedure. overall, in 2007 the euro area recorded its lowest structural fiscal deficit since 1973. nevertheless, the application of the preventive arm has sometimes been uneven. so, in the april 2007 berlin declaration, the euro-area finance ministers committed themselves to reaching their medium-term budgetary objectives by 2010 at the latest. in principle this commitment was reiterated this year. at the same time, the 2005 reform introduced enough economic rationale into the pact to be able to react flexibly to serious disturbances where necessary, in particular through the revised flexibility clause and the incorporation of implicit liabilities in mtos. the functioning of the revised pact is well documented in the commission reports on public finances in the emu of 2006, 2007 and 2008 and in the accompanying communication. in this year’s report, the methodology proposed for incorporating implicit liabilities in the mtos of the preventive arm is also presented. regarding the third question, according to the reformed stability and growth pact, only under tightly constrained circumstances are budget deficits in eu member states permitted to exceed the 3% reference value without resulting in the existence of excessive deficit. in particular, these deficits will always have to be close and also temporary. in addition, either the excess over the reference value must be exceptional, and/or it must include a deficit occurring under circumstances of severe economic downturn, which is defined as negative growth or accumulated loss of output. if the deficit is close and temporary, various other element factors always need to be taken into account, but this must happen in a very balanced way. other relevant factors include, for instance, growth-enhancing expenditure on research and development. however, a direct deduction of any spending items from the deficit is excluded. finally, in any event, an annual structural fiscal improvement of the order of 0.5% of gdp as a benchmark must be delivered.
member of the commission. − well, we always follow facts. any conversation between my colleague joaquín almunia and irish colleagues is for more information, but we analyse the facts and figures at the end of the year. that is why, unfortunately, i cannot answer this question, but it is very understandable. as i said today, we have excessive-budget procedures against the uk and hungary.
member of the commission. − i think we have a rather good track record when we start the procedures. three per cent is a threshold that we really looked at. if it is exceeded, then, in very exceptional circumstances, we will not start the procedures. so, basically, 3% is the threshold that we are looking at, and i think we will follow the procedures we have always followed. we will not change the goalposts, even in the current situation.
member of the commission. − international financial markets have now been in turmoil for about one year and the interaction between accumulating losses in the financial system and the deteriorating global economic outlook make it very difficult to predict when the turmoil will end. the current situation in financial markets illustrates how the problem that seemed initially limited to a specific market segment, for the united states and sub-prime mortgages, can rapidly affect the international financial system as a whole. as losses linked to the us sub-prime mortgages have spread via interconnected markets and complex financial products, several key credit markets have been disrupted. problems in the functioning of these markets have been felt, though, most severely within the banking sector, where substantial losses have been incurred and market liquidity shortages have required support by central banks. nevertheless, a number of financial institutions in the united states and in europe have been rescued from insolvency after experiencing serious difficulty in accessing liquidity. these public sector interventions have reflected concerns about risks to financial stability and have been met by a generally positive response from financial markets. in the united states, as a consequence of the mis-selling of sub-prime mortgages in the past, reset of these mortgage contracts is expected to continue until mid-2009. problems in the international financial market remain acute – you have already discussed these issues today – driven partly by developments in the financial sector itself and partly by the implications of the deteriorating economic environment. uncertainty about the ultimate scale and location of credit losses continues to undermine investor confidence, and the total losses so far disclosed by banks remain well below estimates for overall losses across the financial system based on various projections of future mortgage losses. banks are increasingly forced to recapitalise, often at high cost and in difficult market conditions. moreover, problems in the banking sector are increasingly reflected in tightening lending standards and reduced bank lending activity. the implied higher financing costs and the reduced access to credit are likely to interact with other headwinds, such as high oil prices and rising inflation, facing the global economy. on this basis, the economic outlook for the eu and the euro area economy has further deteriorated since the commission’s spring 2008 forecast. economic prospects vary across the member states. as economic conditions deteriorate, the pressure on bank balance sheets is set to continue. fragile market conditions require continued vigilance from public authorities, notably central banks, supervisors and finance ministers, to monitor market developments. the need for further interventions in the case of systemic crisis cannot be ruled out. in a broader context, concrete actions to address weaknesses in the framework for financial markets are being addressed. further to the economic and financial affairs council discussion in october 2007, a road map of regulatory actions has been adopted. while this road map applies only to the eu, it is consistent with corresponding initiatives at a global level. the objectives of the road map are to enhance transparency, address valuation issues, strengthen prudential supervision of banks and examine structural market issues by analysing relevant weaknesses in the regulatory framework and formulating appropriate policy responses. the commission is currently working to ensure that this road map is delivered on time, including concrete initiatives on enhancing transparency for investors, markets and regulators, revised capital requirements for banks and the regulation of credit-rating agencies. in this respect the commission has completed its external consultation on proposed changes to the capital requirements directive and intends to come forward with a proposal during the coming months. it is also considering legislation on credit-rating agencies. in this context, a public consultation was launched at the end of july 2008. progress has also been achieved with regard to supervisory cooperation across borders within the eu with the entry into force of a new memorandum of understanding at the beginning of july 2008. more generally, one of the aims of the lamfalussy review is the improvement of the new supervisory arrangement where the commission plans, for instance, to revise the decisions on the eu committees of supervisors. in all its efforts, the commission is well aware of the global dimension of the required response and in this respect we are coordinating our responses with our partners.
member of the commission. − i think the commission is really balanced. we have had one hour of debate when a lot of members of parliament called for very hasty action, but the commission is really taking a balanced approach.
today we discussed the global financial crisis and its impact on our economy. and in the debate, one of the mps said that her country had already had a bank failure. do you have any idea if our countries, the countries of the european union, are really in danger of bankruptcy? and what precautions can be taken?
member of the commission. − russia is also part of the international atomic energy agency, and russian nuclear technology corresponds to international standards. so, if any country would like to have russian nuclear technology, there are some international rules that russia is following. for the eu, russian supply technology could be used, provided that the commission’s opinion is positive towards it and, from the standard level, russian technology competes with other technology providers. so merely because it is russian does not mean that it is less safe.
commissioner, i would like to ask you once more about our famous ignalina atomic plant. recently our prime minister met the president of the european commission, mr barroso, and in our papers there were some interpretations that there is a gap; there is a possibility of prolonging the work of this station. what is your opinion, and what would you recommend to the lithuanian government in this situation?
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for successfully tackling such an oversized topic. firstly, i should stress the importance of providing free lunches for schoolchildren, which is the practice in my home country of lithuania but is far from that of all member states. of course there are objections relating to insufficient funding and generally about the quality of food which is actually on the plate, but it helps children – especially from the poorest families – to have proper and decent-quality meals. i also welcome an initiative to distribute fruit and vegetables free in schools. it should be considered as an example of best practice. i believe eu funding could be helpful in assisting member states with the financial burden. the importance of this is that such projects take the eu directly to citizens. last but certainly not least, the report fails to mention consumption in the sense of over-consumption. these days, changing consumption patterns equal a change in our lifestyles. it is perhaps hard to imagine a parallel between obesity and climate change but, indeed, such dependency exists. if we started to think about both topics at the same time, perhaps we would fly fewer of our apples and strawberries from abroad and grow more of them at home, selling them at local food markets instead of supermarkets – which is exactly one of the points that the current report proposes.
the white paper on a european strategy to tackle health problems related to diet, overweight and obesity proposes to take three factors into account. first, the primary responsibility for one's lifestyle lies with the individual. second, only a well-informed consumer can make the right decisions. thirdly, it proposes to integrate a wide range of areas: food, consumers, sport, education, transport. however, these factors are largely influenced by advertising. what are we eating? where do we see this? and how do we know that? in television advertising, 89 percent of the food advertised is unhealthy food. more than 70 percent of the children's parents ask for food they have seen on television. when it comes to human health, i'm missing another part of the conversation: business, food manufacturers. we should work together to make them aware of the harmful effects of unhealthy food, the costs to society of eating it. and not just to stop advertising it, but to make more healthy food.
madame la présidente, first of all allow me to disagree with those saying that we are not able to deliver an eu-wide response to the financial crisis. we responded by bold actions at national level where they were needed. because our national financial markets differ, we have room for manoeuvre in stressful times, taking into account the different level and scope of our financial markets in member states. in vilnius we do not have a city, so our actions are different. somehow i am not surprised that the commission proposals are based on the needs of cross-border financial groups; i have been a member of the european parliament for five years. what does surprise me is that the commission cannot figure out that the cross-border group model cannot survive during downturns in the economy. we are witnessing this now. business leaders have to come up with plans to modernise their model by adding flexibility at subsidiary levels, to reflect the diversity of needs of the real eu economy. the eu supervision and regulation system has to ensure the smooth restructuring of the financial industry. the starting point for reform has to be an answer to the question: ‘which treasury will pay for the bail-out bill in the end?’ this is in the interest of the stability of the whole european union. however, i would like to ask my colleagues not to forget one small neighbour of the european union which is closely related to us – iceland. we have left them on their own.
madam president, the resolution on the situation in belarus reveals what brussels and minsk could do in order not to lose the momentum for improving their relations. i support the approach taken by jan marinus wiersma, which also mirrors the stance taken by the belarusian opposition of alexander v. kazulin and alexander milinkevich. the policy of the eu, to punish belarus and the belarusians for the actions of their regime, did not achieve the envisaged results. it is necessary to open all gates for people-to-people contacts, and bring down visa barriers which are contradictory to common sense. providing minsk is really willing to improve cooperation with the eu, this should create more favourable conditions for the kick-off of mutual discussions, not only externally but also domestically. it can be done by starting talks on the political, economic, social and human rights issues involving all political parties, opposition forces, ngos and trade unions.
for the alde group until recently, the arctic region was the focus of national security and scientific research of the arctic states. today, other aspects of climate change, of melting ice, are emerging: environmental protection, energy sources, human health. unfortunately, however, economic interests, and particularly energy interests, are most pronounced: the opening up of new shipping routes for trade and passenger transport and energy resources. scientific estimates indicate that the arctic contains 30 percent of the world's undiscovered natural gas, 20 percent of liquefied natural gas, and 13 percent of the world's oil reserves. the activities and positions of the arctic and other world states in recent years indicate their desire to have sovereign access to arctic resources. there is also a division among the arctic countries themselves to divide the spheres of influence. i support the idea of the declaration to develop an eu policy for the arctic region covering both economic and environmental aspects and the adaptation of local populations to climate change. as regards energy, the arctic issue should be part of the eu's overall energy policy, but we should finally move from talk to action.
in writing. the undeclared labour market in the european union (eu) remains large. the free movement of workers has led to an increase in undeclared work in the community. this is not only bad for the people who are working illegally, but also bad for the finances of the states. illegal work disrupts the functioning of the internal market and prevents effective competition. illegal workers are often exploited by employers and lack access to social and health protection. such cases are particularly common in those member states of the community which still apply transitional provisions restricting the free movement of workers from the new member states. such restrictions promote the spread of undeclared work and should therefore be abolished as soon as possible. it is deplorable and unjustifiable that the eu should be making its citizens hostage to a poorly designed policy. in meetings with lithuanian emigrants living abroad, i have often heard that employers take advantage of immigrants' ignorance of local laws, language and often do not pay their salaries. i believe that the eu must take decisive and strong action to combat undeclared work. currently, there is little liability for undeclared work and employers often pay small fines which do not deter them from hiring illegal workers. i believe that sanctions which would have a direct impact on the economic interests of employers, such as the suspension or withdrawal of an activity licence, or the prohibition of the use of support from member states or community funds, would be an effective means of significantly reducing or even eliminating undeclared work.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress that only by improving public health will we be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the saying "all the medicine in the world can't change movement, but movement can change all the medicine in the world" is not true. healthy living and eating are not the only things that need to be promoted. it is time to promote those who are consciously not endangering their health and who are improving it, including through financial means. it would be useful if the european commission could make recommendations on this subject. the new eu countries face a shortage of specialists. in some countries, half of the doctors who leave university in the first place go to other eu countries where salaries are much higher. in this way, the new countries are building and consolidating the health systems of their rich neighbors. i am not suggesting that we restrict the mobility of citizens. a solidarity and compensation fund is needed to mitigate the consequences of such losses.
in writing. − this protocol is a so-called logical extension of the agreement with the 25 eu member states. this protocol is based on the same legal basis as the previous protocols (the eu 10 protocols), and it gives switzerland the right to retain employees and selfemployed persons in romania and bulgaria. i believe that the extension of this agreement to include romania and bulgaria will intensify competition on the swiss labour market, make it easier to send swiss workers to these two countries, improve the employment opportunities of bulgarian workers in romania, and reverse the market for swiss exports in the future.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to implement the principles already agreed in previous legal instruments by establishing an electronic link between national registers, without which the european register system cannot function effectively. the proposal aims to supplement the systems established by the previous legal instruments from a technical and information point of view, but the basic principles remain the same: the reference point remains the member state of which the convicted person is a national; information is stored only in the central national register, while information in the registers of other member states is not directly accessible, and it is up to the member states themselves to update their databases. the adoption of this legislation will provide a common framework for the 27 member states with different legal systems, all of which have their own judicial and social characteristics.
in writing. - the fight against poverty is a key issue for the european union and a concern for the member states. in march 2000, at the start of the lisbon strategy, the council asked the member states and the european commission to take action to make a decisive contribution to eradicating poverty by 2010. member states have shown strong political will and many actions have been taken at both eu and national level. however, poverty is a problem and the integration of people excluded from the labour market remains a difficult challenge for the enlarged european union. we will not be able to achieve the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy if we continue to waste a large part of our single most precious resource: human capital. in most member states, comprehensive social support policies have been implemented to activate the return of displaced people to the labour market. however, there was still a large group of people with low job prospects who were at high risk of falling behind the poverty line and becoming socially excluded. for those furthest away from the labour market, minimum income (mis) schemes may be the only way to avoid extreme poverty; but in addition to this essential function, mis must also promote the integration of those able to work into the labour market. the key challenge is therefore to ensure that social protection policies that help to mobilise people able to work effectively are at the same time aimed at the longer-term objective of ensuring an adequate standard of living for those who are outside the labour market.
in writing. - road transport - one of the economic sectors which occupies a very important place in the european internal market. it is a major employment issue, with over 3 million people employed in the community transport sector. although there is a large body of eu legislation aimed at ensuring the safety of community citizens' and drivers' health and safety while transporting persons and goods, breaks are increasingly frequent in the member states. this situation was due to two main reasons: member states failed or failed to transpose the directives into national law relating to road transport and applied different health and safety requirements to employed and selfemployed drivers. the current situation where legislation governing the organisation of working time is only applicable to contract drivers and not to self-employed drivers threatens to distort competition in the transport sector. the majority of the drivers are fictitiously self-employed drivers who are subject to less stringent health and safety requirements. this is not so much an incentive to unfair competition as a threat to the health of the drivers themselves and the safety of all road users. the european commission must speedily bring self-employed road transport drivers within the scope of the legislation. this will significantly increase road safety, ensure good health and safety conditions for drivers and bring fair competition to the road transport sector.
in writing. − access to healthcare is a right of all citizens of the european union (eu), and ensuring equal access to high-quality medical services for all is a key task for member states' institutions. i am right to take this report as my own when we are talking about the most general healthcare problems. it is clear that both the community and the member states must pay greater attention to long-term healthcare. this is particularly true of the elderly, who are physically and mentally disabled, and their health care, which is provided in a home. in the face of a shortage of nursing staff, it is not so much a question of assessing the value of their services as of improving their working conditions, but of ensuring that nurses are trained in high-quality training institutions. member states should heed the call of the european parliament (ep) to ensure that patients have access to life-saving medicines, even at very high cost. this would guarantee the universal right to health. member states should implement the eu healthcare strategy without delay. this would encourage and facilitate the provision of transnational healthcare services, allow free access between healthcare professionals and patients, and strengthen cooperation between public and private institutions. most importantly, the implementation of the eu healthcare strategy will ensure that people receive quality healthcare services throughout bendrija.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr harlem désir, for the work he has done, and i think i have nothing to add to the general justification which has just been put forward. let me just focus on the results of the political agreement of june 10. let me point out the success achieved in a number of key areas of interest to the european parliament. this is the direct application of the principle of equal treatment to staff recruited through the agency from the first day of secondment, the absence of any exceptions in the case of short-term secondments, the so-called grace period, the clarification of definitions and the consultation or involvement of the social partners, which is a condition for exceptions allowing for certain derogations from the principle of equal treatment. the commission is pleased with the consensus on the council's common position within the employment committee and i must once again congratulate the rapporteurs and the political groups for confirming their willingness to adopt the common position without further amendments. ladies and gentlemen, respect for the social partners is part of the political concept of the european union, and i have therefore noted with great satisfaction both the position of the trade unions and the position of the employers. ladies and gentlemen, i think the conditions for admission to the first reading are met.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although i was unable to hear you physically, i believe that your remarks, mr rapporteur, were accurately reported to me, as were yours, commissioner. on 9 june in luxembourg, the council reached agreement on two texts which had been under discussion for several years by the member states of the european union. the first of these, as you know, is a proposal for a revision of the working time directive which has been under negotiation since 2004. that is not the subject of tonight's debate. the second is a proposal for a directive on the working conditions of temporary agency workers which has been under discussion since 2002. the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the protection of temporary agency workers and to improve the quality of temporary agency work. we are here today to adopt it for good. i would like to begin by saying that i think that the adoption of this text on temporary workers will send a very strong signal to all europeans. this signal is that 2008 may be the year of the relaunch of social europe. we have been waiting for years for a substantial legislative breakthrough in the social field. with the adoption of the directive on temporary work, we are finally beginning to turn the page on these years of deadlock. europeans were waiting for this signal from a more protective europe. we know that their expectations are even higher in the present context of the financial crisis and its economic consequences. more than ever, it is time to give them concrete signs of our ability to reconcile the objective of economic prosperity with that of social cohesion and our willingness to defend and promote the european social model. the proposal for a directive which we are debating this evening is an important text, firstly because of the number of europeans it will affect. in 2006, there were 3.4 million temporary workers in europe. but if we count the number of people who at one time or another find themselves on the list of temporary work enterprises, we arrive at 6 million people. i would add that, over the last 20 years, temporary work has been the most widespread form of atypical work. and according to the european foundation in dublin, it has at least doubled in almost all member states, and quintupled in denmark, italy, spain and sweden as more and more european companies turn to it to find workers suited to their specific needs. so today we are talking about a key sector of the european economy. and in this key sector, mr rapporteur, you have put forward a key text which will provide real additional guarantees for european workers. the first of these guarantees is the principle of equal treatment on the first day between permanent and temporary workers. this innovation is a major step forward for temporary workers in europe, for whom legislation previously did not provide such protective provisions. during their entire assignment, these workers will now enjoy the same working conditions as those who are directly recruited by the company for the same position. this will apply to working hours, overtime, rest periods, rest periods, night work, paid holidays, the protection of workers' health, the right to non-discrimination and the protection of pregnant women. this is essential because we also know, on all these subjects, that temporary workers are currently exposed to physical hazards at least as great as permanent workers and sometimes to higher work rates. the principle of equal treatment on the first day will also apply to pay. from the start of his assignment, the temporary worker will receive the same salary as the person who is recruited directly by the user company to do the same job. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of training and the quality of the workforce. finally, the directive will provide new guarantees in terms of access for temporary workers to permanent employment, access to public facilities, catering services, childcare facilities and transport services, access to vocational training and representation. i would like to say to you, as president-in-office of the council, that i am pleased to see that the conditions are now in place for the adoption of this text. it is also true that this text includes a large part of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading in november 2002. this is also why the committee on employment and social affairs, with the near unanimity of its members, decided not to amend it, and i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members who have worked actively on the text for their constructive approach. this near unanimity is also a clear sign of the usefulness and quality of this text and i also want to pay tribute here to vladimir spidla who has always supported this initiative and who agreed not to withdraw this text even when the discussions seemed to have stalled in december 2007, for example in brussels. as you know, it was during the slovenian presidency that we were able to achieve this. i would also like to underline the efforts made by the united kingdom in this area, and i welcome the agreement reached between the british social partners on 19 may 2008, which was an important element. finally, i would like to recall the support given by the european social partners to the common position adopted on 9 june on the aspect of temporary agency work. today, therefore, we can say that there is a convergence of views among all the players in the case. it also shows that through perseverance, creativity and dialogue we can break out of situations that seem to be stuck, even in social matters, even in europe, even to adopt directives.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am speaking today on behalf of my colleague, liz lynne, who is the shadow rapporteur for the alde group on this directive, since she cannot be with us today due to problems with flights to strasbourg. i share her general concerns about this document and, in particular, her belief that this directive is far from ideal, but could be worse. many temporary agency businesses in the uk do now want to see the adoption of this directive, but only because it is the ‘least worst’ option. we have always argued that this should not have been done at european level, given the stark differences and the different traditions that exist in each member state. however, we understand the purpose of temporary work agencies, which is to establish more working places for people and to make the labour market more flexible. this directive was, of course, tied by the council to a working-time directive, and the shadow rapporteur of the alde group believes that these two issues will continue to be linked. therefore, under the given circumstances, the alde group shadow rapporteur would support this document, and our political group will follow her recommendations during the vote.
president of the commission. − i would just like very briefly to answer the question put to me by mr rasmussen. i must also ask to be excused, as i have to be at the press conference. the commission will be represented by commissioner almunia. as i said in my previous remarks, no area of the financial markets will be absent from our review. i really want to thank you for the contribution that you personally – and many members of the european parliament – made in your report. we will look at all these options. as president sarkozy has just said, we want to lead this global effort. we believe that we can put some of those proposals into effect before christmas, as you asked, but some are technically very delicate. we will take a decision and will feed into the international debate on all those matters, but i believe it is also important to have technically sound proposals. i am sure you have noticed that we have made everything that has been agreed with ecofin – the financial road map – available to you. it is not accurate to say that we have not legislated in financial services under this commission. thirty-two legislative measures adopted under codecision or comitology have been adopted in the area of financial services since the beginning of this commission, of which 19 were under codecision. there will be several more in the coming weeks and months, starting with the proposal on rating agencies early next month. let me give you an example about rating agencies. let us be very open about this. i personally spoke with several governments several times about the need for regulation on rating agencies. the response was a definite ‘no’. this is true. that is why i ask you – some of those who criticise the commission: maybe you can use some of your influence in your own governments or the parties that are in your governments. that would be most helpful because, in fact, some months ago when we discussed this – and in this area commissioner mccreevy was in favour of regulation for the notation agencies – the most ambitious proposal that some governments were considering was a code of conduct. you may say that is all very well and the commission has the right to do this. that is true, but in financial services matters, things are not – as you know – as they are in many other matters. when we were in a crisis – and the peak of the crisis was in september this year (but since august of last year we have had this road map) – we were, in fact, strongly advised by many in our governments not to put forward proposals that could raise the level of alarm or create a kind of alarm reflex. this is a matter in which i believe the commission has to be prudent. in the very sensitive issues concerning financial markets we cannot have empty announcement effects. we cannot just make proclamations. it is very important in this matter to maintain coordination between parliament, commission and council. i would say that in the european commission we are, by definition, in favour of a european dimension in regulation and in supervision. i say this very frankly. if the commission does not often make proposals that you have rightly put forward, it was not always because we were sleeping or because there was an ideological bias. it was because analysis of the situation showed that the possibility of achieving them was zero, or close to zero. very honestly, this is something i want to tell you. we will have time to look at all the causes and all the stages of this process, but i think this is important for you to know in the debate. quite frankly, two weeks ago some of our governments were still saying that we did not need a european response. perhaps you noticed that i published an article in the european press asking – pleading – for a european response, and some of our governments were saying, ‘no, we can do it at national level. we do not need a european dimension’. so let us try to act collectively. let us look at ourselves critically, as we all need to do, but let us try to avoid a simplistic response to a very complex issue. we are ready to work constructively with the european parliament and the council in order to find good solutions for europe and, possibly, for the rest of the world. (applause)
i'd just like to say one thing. the president of the commission said that the european union's response to the crisis had been weak. indeed, the response was strong, the member states responded, but the european institutions reacted too late. it is clear from the room today that mr sarkozy has left, all the journalists have left. we're not interesting to anyone. this is primarily because we are unable to reorganise our work. there are many great people in both the european commission and the european parliament, but the bureaucracy crushes all initiatives. we were able to respond to the asian tsunami, but tomorrow we will be discussing a budget that was prepared in this way and without taking into account the fact that we are experiencing an economic tsunami in europe. we could do something, put other priorities in our budget. we could also set priorities in our committees in parliament to help us survive this crisis and to meet people's expectations. the european commission should be reformed. i would like to stress that the commission should be able to separate its strategic and technical functions in order to be more effective.
in writing. − we must pay close attention to making community law simpler and clearer, so that it is more understandable and accessible to all citizens, who will have new opportunities and be able to use the specific rights conferred on them. this objective will not be achieved if many provisions which have been amended several times, in part and often substantially, remain scattered among the various acts and therefore have to be sought in part in the original act and in part in subsequent amending acts. therefore, to find the rules in force at a given moment, it is necessary to carry out a study by comparing different legal acts. for this reason, in order to ensure the clarity and transparency of community law, it was important to codify the rules, which were frequently amended.
in writing. − member states must take all necessary measures to ensure that pressure vessels are placed on the market and put into service only if they are safe for humans, pets or property, properly installed, maintained and used for their intended purpose. manufacturers must ensure that the vessels conform to the type and the description of the production process as specified in the ec-type examination certificate, must affix the ce marking and draw up a declaration of conformity. this directive applies to series-produced pressure vessels and does not apply to vessels for nuclear purposes, vessels for marine and aviation power units and fire extinguishers. the aim of this proposal is to codify council directive 87/404/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to simple pressure vessels. the new directive will replace the various acts whose provisions have been incorporated into it. this proposal does not change the content of the acts to be codified, as it merely combines these acts, making the necessary changes in form for codification.
in writing. − the solidarity fund and other specific measures do not represent a large amount of money compared to the european union budget, but ultimately serve to support the regions affected by the disaster and their people in the event of natural disasters. i support the decision to grant assistance from the fund to france for martinique and guadeloupe, which were hit by hurricane dune in august 2007. we must stand together in such cases.
in writing. − developing countries have contributed the least to climate change, but will suffer the most from its effects and have the least capacity to deal with them. the industrial countries have historical responsibility for climate change and a moral obligation to contribute to the efforts of developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change. the 2007 review of the eu action plan on climate change and development shows that climate change is not being integrated sufficiently into eu development policy and is taking place at a very slow pace. i support the commission's initiative to establish a global climate change alliance. however, the €60 million for the global climate change alliance is far from sufficient, and it is important that the commission sets out long-term funding and allocates at least €2 billion annually until 2010 and €5 billion by 2020. at present, developing countries are severely underfunded in terms of adaptation to climate change. by helping developing countries, we help ourselves.
in writing. − recently, there has been a marked increase in the number of regulatory agencies, both at european and national level. there are both similarities and differences between these two levels. the structural and functional diversity of these agencies at european and national level raises issues of regulation, good governance and institutional convergence in terms of centralisation and decentralisation. european regulatory agencies are generally decentralised or independent services and it is therefore necessary to require a high degree of transparency and democratic control in their establishment and operation, as, in addition to regulatory and executive acts with exclusive rights, the growth in the number of key areas of public activity can damage the reputation of the institutions representing the european union, alienate them and significantly increase bureaucracy. the application of parliamentary control to the structure and operation of regulatory agencies would be in line with the classical principle of democracy, which requires an increase in the political accountability of all institutions with executive power.
in writing. − today we voted on the next generation of the erasmus mundus programme for 2009-13. the current erasmus mundus programme has been running since 2004 and has successfully benefited more than 4 000 third-country nationals and european union citizens. erasmus mundus has proven to be a credible tool in the field of higher education, especially in the field of postgraduate studies. the new programme aims to: promote european higher education, help open up more and better career prospects for young people, and implement more structured international cooperation between higher education institutions by ensuring greater mobility for students from the european union and third countries. over the next 5 years, more than €950 million will be allocated to european and third-country universities to join programmes and provide scholarships. the new programme will be complementary to the doctoral programme and will provide students with increased financial support. i voted in favour of the amendments by the committee responsible which give the document clearer rules, guarantee student choice and rights and enable closer cooperation between universities.
in writing. − the enlarged european union (eu) is seeing the emergence of more and more international families, i.e. spouses of different nationalities. unfortunately, the number of couples separating from each other across the eu is high and the divorce process is often complex and long-lasting. this is because, until now, people have had limited choice of court to hear their divorce case. the divorced couple could appeal to the court in their country of residence. they were therefore not entitled to choose the law of other member states applicable to their divorces. for example, a lithuanian woman married to a german and living with her family in germany had to apply to the court of her husband's place of residence for a divorce. their divorce proceedings were to be dealt with under german law. these restrictions will cease to apply on 1 march 2009 following the adoption of the regulation. the family may also choose the court of its place of residence or the law of its country of nationality. i voted in favour of the amendments which provide that the law applicable to divorce proceedings must not conflict with the fundamental principles of the charter of human rights. this is particularly important in order to avoid gender discrimination in the examination and decision-making of divorce cases.
mr president, the russia-georgia war and its aftermath point to the political necessity for the european union to seriously reassess its relations with russia, as the commissioner rightly pointed out today. in addition, ‘business as usual’ should be suspended until europe gets clear answers from russia to some very important questions. it needs to be said that europe must find a way to speak to russia with a new, different, stronger voice. the reason for this is that russia has reverted to the 19th-century ‘spheres of influence’ approach or, simply put, the doctrine of realpolitik. russia’s talk of privileged interests in its neighbourhood is testimony to this. this realpolitik is being fuelled by aggressive nationalism at home and by enemy-labelling in russia of the countries surrounding it. in such a light, it is crucial for europe to understand that it needs to implement its harder instruments of power. the european reaction to the russian-georgian conflict and its aftermath has been mixed. for some, there is a sense that relations between the eu and russia are returning to business as usual. this is happening despite the fact that moscow has not yet fully complied with its commitments regarding troop withdrawal and, more importantly, recognised the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia. returning to business as usual before moscow fully complies with its commitments is close to appeasement. europe needs to engage russia, but must do so in a principled and consistent manner. the eu’s leverage over russia is limited. nevertheless, russia would clearly care about a united western stance. russia is very sensitive about issues of its international standing and prestige: for instance, considerations of g7 versus g8. technology-related research programmes, trade agreements and nuclear fuels are also things moscow is interested in. finally, the eu must remain strong and consistent in order to promote its vision of how the partnership with russia should evolve.
i would just like to add the words that are in the ninth paragraph, and the text would then read as follows, i would like to add the words: 'and their conformity with the treaty provisions', just to clarify. the text would therefore read as follows: state aid rules to measures takenand their conformity with the treaty provisions.
mr president, i believe the colleagues from the ppe-de group will be standing up to speak shortly, but, before they do, i would ask them to consider whether it would harm their principles to support my oral amendment by adding two words which highlight the isolation of the baltic region in the energy sector and its 100% dependence on russia. we would like to highlight and to welcome the commission’s, and specifically the council’s, initiative to help put an end to the baltic region’s isolation in the energy sector. therefore, in paragraph 29, where we talk about eastern europe, i would like to mention the baltic region. i ask for your support. (applause from the centre and the left)
in writing. − the resolution on the european council held on 15-16 october 2008 addresses a number of important issues, such as the impact of the global financial crisis on the economic exit strategy from the financial crisis, the improvement of regulations to strengthen the eu regulatory and supervisory framework, energy and climate change and energy security issues. however, i believe that we failed to comprehensively address energy security issues in the light of the latest commitments made by the commission and the conclusions of the french presidency. the european commission has undertaken to elaborate the baltic interconnection plan and to present it to the eu energy ministers in december. the council considers it a priority to connect lithuania, latvia and estoniato the wider european electricity grid and to diversify gas sources to reduce dependency on russian gas. i proposed incorporating those suggestions into the resolution, but they were not taken on board during negotiations between political groups, andneither was my oral amendment. i believe that the european parliament has failed to demonstrate solidarity with the baltic states, which are already the most isolated energy islands in the community and are at the mercy of russia in terms of gas. for the reasons stated above,i abstained in the vote on the joint resolution.
in writing. −currently, there are wide disparities in national legislation governing temporary work. the vague and undefined coordination of the activities of temporary employment agencies creates the conditions for the exploitation of temporary workers. in meetings with lithuanians working abroad, we have often heard that they are paid less, often not paid for their work, or that transport and living expenses are illegally deducted from their salary. in addition, temporary workers are subject to more demanding working conditions, often harmful to health, and often require higher work intensity and speed than other workers. temporary workers also lack real social security. temporary work is increasingly being developed in all eu countries, although the proportion of temporary workers varies greatly from one country to another. i support the common position of the european parliament and the council and believe that this directive will help to improve the working conditions of many people and provide them with social guarantees. temporary employment agencies will be regarded as employers and will be obliged to guarantee workers all the rights they are entitled to. temporary workers will be subject to the same labour law, will be paid the same salary as other workers and will enjoy the same social protection conditions. at the initiative of parliament, these rights shall take effect on the first day of their term of office. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement.
in writing. −with the rapid spread of new technologies and the increase in computer literacy, more and more children and young people are using the internet. minors are often exposed to web sites that promote harmful behavior, child pornography, promote underage prostitution, promote diets that cause anorexia, or encourage suicide. according to interpol, the number of new images of child pornography on the internet is increasing every year. we need to address child safety online at all levels, involving children, their families, schools and society as a whole. we must educate children about the dangers they face from the use of new technologies. we need to help children to identify and identify the forms of child abuse, harassment, rape or other threats and to learn how to protect themselves from them. the new european commission's safer internet programme proposes €55 million for 2009-13 to combat harmful behaviour against children and young people online. the aim is to create a safe online environment and to promote crime prevention measures. it is intended to create a common information base and exchange good practices at international level.
in writing. −the posting of workers directive (pwd) is important for legitimising the free movement of services and workers within the community. not all member states comply with the requirements of the directive. it is not unusual for service providers to be required to do more than is provided for in the directive. the derogation from the provisions of the dkd blocks services between member states, thus concealing a policy of protectionism. the european court of justice (ecj) heard a case concerning the latvian construction company laval, which was not authorised to provide construction services in sweden. the collective agreement is required under swedish law, although the agreement was signed in latvia. the ecj ruled that no additional or higher requirements could be imposed than those provided for in the dkd. the report and amendments criticise and even challenge the ecj's decisions in laval and other similar cases. i voted against because i think the ep would be overstepping its bounds by interpreting or questioning the decisions of the ecj. i disagreed with the arguments that cast doubt on the correctness of the ecj's decisions, and proposed that the ecj's decisions should not be applied in some eu countries. such statements would not only call into question the ecj's competence, but also cast doubt on its impartiality, risk distorting the eu's institutional framework and foster public distrust of it. i also did not support the idea of revising the directive. if a directive does not work as it should in some countries, the member states of the community are responsible for this, because they do not implement or apply the provisions of the directive in the national law in the right way. the european commission should monitor whether eu directives have been transposed correctly and whether national laws are in line with the essence and spirit of the directive.
i was recently in kosovo and i would like to draw parallels between the situation in that country and in bosnia and herzegovina. as we know, the european union and most of its member states have recognised kosovo's independence, but the situation in the country is extremely difficult, particularly in the north. there are parallel structures, the police force is not able to function. there is increasing talk of the possibility of partitioning kosovo. i would like to ask both the minister and the commissioner whether the situation in kosovo is not reflected in the situation in bosnia-herzegovina. if the eu fails to tackle the problem of the hard-to-reach state in bosnia and herzegovina, what will it do?
vice-presidentof the commission. − so far all products produced in this province have been labelled. the authorities in this province are responsible for quality and also rules of origin. of course, there is always the question that not every chicken can be checked – this is also the case in the european union. but what the commission can do in its inspections – and i was told that the next inspection will take place next year, so it has already been planned – is to verify that the administrative systems are capable of controlling how this poultry is produced and what the level of animal health protection is. so far the answers have been found to be satisfactory. of course, there will be a continuous checking of facts, but these are the world trade organisation rules, and we always have benefited from openness. quality is important; standards are important. so far we are convinced that the quality of poultry products from china is satisfactory, and the next province is, as i have already mentioned, also willing to come.
vice-president of the commission.− the commission recalls that article 146 of the ec treaty establishes the european social fund in order to improve employment opportunities for workers in the internal market and thereby to contribute to raising the standard of living. the social fund also pursues actions leading to the strengthening of its economic and social cohesion. the commission agrees with the honourable member on the importance of reporting on the concrete benefits of the european social fund. in this context, the commission intends to present a series of thematic reports on the european social fund’s support and activities, the beneficiaries reached and the results achieved. the first set of reports should be available in early 2009. in addition, article 159 of the ec treaty provides that the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions every three years on progress made towards achieving economic and social cohesion. the last cohesion report was published in 2007 and paid particular attention to the issue of investment in people. the next cohesion report will be presented in 2010. in addition, the commission will publish a so-called ‘progress report’ in the intervening years.
i am very satisfied with your very precise and concrete answer, so thank you very much indeed. i do appreciate that the commission considers that the question i raised is important, not only to parliamentarians, but to the commission as well. i believe, however, that this is the most important to our people. they have to know about the transparency of use of these funds and the efficiency of use of these funds. i will, therefore, be waiting for the report in early 2009. could you please advice me which dg will prepare this report in 2009?
the great badminton holocaust in ukraine is a part of european history that must not be forgotten. convinced that the holodomor must be internationally recognised as genocide against the ukrainian people perpetrated by the soviet union. this is just one of the peaks of the crimes against humanity committed during the entire existence of the soviet union. the tragedy of the ukrainian people has been meticulously covered up, and it is little known even in europe that one of the most brutal crimes of the 20th century was committed somewhere, and not here in europe, during a war. millions of ukrainians were artificially subjected to the famine brought on by soviet rule. the destruction of the soviet totalitarian regime for the peasants also means a crisis of ukrainian identity, which is why, firstly, we must condemn the defenders of the regime in the former soviet republics who deny the crimes of this and other communist periods, and secondly, we must support the ukrainian aspiration of our future colleague to have this genocide of the ukrainian people recognized internationally. third, the holodomor is just one of the crimes of communism, a crime that will inevitably have to be met by the second nuremberg.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stockmann, on his excellent work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the proposal is intended first of all to incorporate into community law certain principles which all the member states have already subscribed to in the icao framework: non-discrimination, transparency and consultation. the framework established by the directive will make it possible to structure the dialogue between carriers and airports for the determination and collection of charges. the directive will, for example, require airports to consult air carriers before deciding on airport charges. i myself have done the same, consulting airlines and airports before drawing up this proposal, which has been approved by both sides in substance. the directive introduces - as stockmann has pointed out earlier - the concept of an independent national supervisory authority. this body will play a decisive role in ensuring that the basic principles i have outlined are respected. these are the broad objectives of the proposal. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the work he has done in the second reading to try to reach an agreement with the council. the result, of course, has been a lot of work, a lot of work sessions and a commitment from all of us but i think we have managed to do a good job. the results of the negotiations are reflected in a number of amendments which the commission feels it can fully endorse. i am very pleased that the committee on transport and tourism has also unanimously supported this agreement. i am prepared, of course, to follow the debate closely and to take all the comments that will come from it.
for the alde group i think that no one doubted the need for transparency and the reasonableness of airport charges and costs in the european community. this is because some airports in the community operate under natural monopoly conditions. however, the ep was very wary of the commission's proposals and its desire to control more than 150 community airports from the very beginning of its discussions. when participating in the preparation of various documents, members of parliament are often faced with the dilemma of how much and how much control and regulation is necessary, so that it does not become self-perpetuating and paralyses the activity itself being controlled. this is particularly relevant in the current crisis, where sensitivity in the face of business issues is essential. i believe that in the document to be voted on today the european parliament has succeeded in finding and defending the golden mean by actually setting the number of airports to be controlled. it is gratifying that the council has taken a similar view and that the commission has shown the necessary flexibility to reach a constructive compromise. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. i think we've done a pretty good job of meeting both sides' expectations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. all this was achieved thanks to the professional efforts of the rapporteur. mr stockmann has always been known as an impartial and open-minded politician. it's helped me four times with him on various airline regulatory documents. this time, i was not disappointed, but i was enriched by new experiences. i thank and congratulate mr stockmann and my other colleagues on the conclusion of the debate on this document in the european parliament. i also wish the european commission, which will have the difficult task of implementing and monitoring the effectiveness of this directive, every success.
it's been ten years since hugo chavez became president of venezuela. the 1999 venezuelan constitution was a great opportunity to consolidate the rule of law and guarantee human rights in the country. today, unfortunately, we must say that this historic opportunity has not been seized. we know that in venezuela, in venezuela under president hugo chavez, discrimination against political opponents and critics is tolerated and encouraged. under his leadership, the independence of the judiciary has been destroyed in venezuela, and we know the situation of the trade unions and the press in that country. our resolution today is another reminder to mr chavez that the constitution cannot be just a piece of paper, its provisions must be embodied in life.
i have been following this discussion closely and would like to draw attention to two points. i think mr matsakis has rightly emphasized that the key to the situation in burma lies both in moscow and, in particular, in beijing and delhi. we need to increase the pressure not only on burma, but on those countries as well. the second point, which is very important, and which was made by mr pinior, and i agree with him, is that we must look at the extent to which the pressure on burma, the extent to which the sanctions on burma affect the junta and affect the common people. i would ask the european commission to analyse how much our actions complicate the actions of the chunta and how much they affect people. and in any case, i think we should encourage burma to open up to the world and only then can it embark on the path to democracy.
it is said that any crisis brings out all the strengths and weaknesses of the economic and institutional set-up. i admit that i had doubts in the past whether a greater focus on euro area countries would create the conditions for a two-speed europe and create obstacles for emerging economies, such as lithuania's, to join the euro area. but recent developments in financial markets have changed my view of the role and influence of the eurogroup on the development of the european union. the euro area has clearly weathered the first major wave of the financial crisis. it is clear that the economic downturn can be stopped by implementing better coordinated economic policies between member states, accelerating integration and the development of the internal market. those countries that remained outside the euro area suffered the most. we have been hit and we have been hit by the financial crisis because of the capital that is being taken from us. so we sometimes speak very loudly against decisions that would facilitate the movement of capital across the european union, but it's not because we are against integration. as a professional economist, i know that integration processes drive economic growth. but we would very much like the eurozone, which has become a rock on which the waves of the financial crisis have been crushed, to be a rock on which we too can climb and take shelter from the cold winds. what should be done to make the strength of the euro area the strength of the european union as a whole? we certainly shouldn't be proposing a lot of new measures. commissioner, i have reviewed the resolutions adopted by parliament on economic policy today. we would have been very happy if we had already implemented some of these proposals. there are so many proposals, and i don't think we're going to come up with anything new. those proposals should now be consolidated. there is a debate whether more government intervention is needed to overcome the economic downturn or whether more liberal policies are sufficient. i would say that both economic strategies should be used. first of all, and this is obvious, we need the support of the state and the support of the social network so that people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis, as a result of restructuring, can find a new place in life. on the other hand, we need liberal reforms to strengthen the integration process and to open up the european union to business. the euro area has a very strong role to play in this. in conclusion, i would like to join my colleagues in saying to the president of the eurogroup that we appreciate your work and know how difficult it is, but at least in parliament you have the support.
ten years of economic and monetary union. it is a beautiful anniversary, but also an opportunity to reflect on how the economic, financial and political situation in the eu and the world has changed and whether the maastricht criteria are in line with current global developments. the stability and growth pact was revised in 2005, apparently because of the failure of the major euro area countries to comply with its requirements. over a period of 10 years, there was virtually no euro area country that met all the maastricht criteria. we know that the european central bank's inflation target is 2 percent. if we were to set this target today, it would not be met by any eu country, with inflation ranging from 2.8% in the netherlands to 14.7% in latvia in september this year, and the maastricht criteria for price stability at 4.5%. if the euro area members do not meet the price stability criterion, what kind of inflation sustainability can we talk about? the concept of sustainability of inflation was introduced in 2006 with the start of the euro area's expansion. are we talking about new requirements only for new candidates for the euro area? what are the prospects for the euro area? i call on the european commission and the european central bank to re-examine the principles of economic and monetary union, its governance, the maastricht criteria, whether they are being implemented in the current global economic and financial situation and what the future holds for economic and monetary union and the euro area candidate countries.
i can only repeat that the eu adopted documents in 1974 obliging the member states to pay men and women equal pay for equal work. but after more than 30 years, the situation remains the same. moreover, my country lithuania has started a reform of the pension system. a portion of the employees' contributions to the state pension insurance fund is transferred to private pension funds. a few years later, it turns out that to get equal annuities from these funds, women have to pay 35 percent more in contributions than men, because you see, they live longer. moreover, withdrawing from these funds is as impossible as withdrawing from slavery it is already a violation of human rights and freedom of choice. apart from lithuania, only bulgaria uses the gender table. i invite the commission to take the initiative and propose solutions after examining such cases.
first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked hard on these complex, important and, in my opinion, the most important legislative projects of the year, in particular the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos. i have very little time, so i can only touch on the most important issues of concern to my country's farmers. firstly, the uniformity of direct payments after 13 years. this is very important, and if we are talking about solidarity, fair competition and the single market, we must act accordingly. the fair distribution of support must be ensured. the second very important point is the need to remove the limitations on the land area as at 30 june 2003. if we're talking about food shortages, if we're talking about world hunger, if we're talking about biofuels, let's let farmers use the resources that they have. and above all, we must protect the financing of the european union's common agricultural policy and prevent the agricultural budget from being squandered on dubious ideas.
in writing. it is important that the principle of subsidiarity is applied to the implementation of this scheme, with the states deciding for themselves the age at which children can benefit from the fruit and vegetables scheme and the fruit and vegetables to be provided. i also believe that priority should be given to products of community origin, but that non-community products should not be excluded, as this would violate the rules of competition and the wto. i think that the administration of this programme should be as simple as possible, and i would therefore suggest that the provisions on strategy development be abandoned. the development of a national strategy for the implementation of a single measure and the small budget is too demanding. the development of national administrative rules could be replaced by a requirement to develop national administrative rules incorporating some of the provisions provided for in the implementing rules of the strategy submitted by the commission. i would like to encourage everyone to think about the need for strategy development in the development of the rules for implementing the programme (this point is important for lithuania because of its administration). implementation of the scheme would require additional funds from the national budget, as the scheme has to be partly financed by the state, but even in the face of the financial crisis we need to look at the long term to safeguard the health of our children and young people. let's not take the responsibility off our shoulders.
in writing. − the proposal is particularly important in that the regulatory procedure with scrutiny significantly strengthens the european parliament's powers to monitor the application of implementing measures. the european parliament is given the right to scrutinise the draft implementing measure and additional key provisions are added which give the european parliament the right to disagree with the draft measure or to propose amendments to the draft implementing measure.
in writing. − financial education is an important issue on the eu agenda, especially in the face of the financial crisis. consumers need basic skills to help them choose and fully understand information and offers consumers are faced with a constantly increasing supply of increasingly complex goods and services. the information and advice provided to consumers does not correspond to the level of complexity of financial products. this situation increases the financial vulnerability of consumers. closing the information and financial literacy gaps for financial intermediaries and consumers will reduce the risk of excessive indebtedness, default or bankruptcy. it would also increase competition between creditors and overall market efficiency, as more knowledgeable consumers would be able to see the differences between different financing offers and choose the one that best meets their needs. knowledge and skills are not sufficient to ensure that consumers manage their funds properly.
in writing. − european consumer confidence is essential for the internal market to function effectively and prosper. the single market has almost 500 million consumers and a wide variety of goods and services. since 1997, the commission has used the single market scoreboard to monitor and monitor the implementation of internal market legislation by member states. the scoreboard identifies problem areas and can therefore be a universal and flexible tool to inform the public, market players and institutions of shortcomings that merit attention. however, the internal scoreboard has never been designed to inform the consumer about the internal market, which is very important to correct. we need to ensure that markets function as well as possible and that consumers are offered the prices and quality of services that meet their expectations. this does not require more or stricter legislation. sometimes, information, education or self-regulation may be the more appropriate and effective approach.
in writing. − the commission communication 'supporting demonstration projects for sustainable production of electricity from fossil fuels' is a crucial step in the further discussion on policy and financial instruments. it is now clear that the european union will only be able to achieve its ambitious climate policy goals beyond 2020 if it can ensure the widespread use of co2 capture and storage technologies in power plants. it is essential that we make progress in developing and adopting legislation on the capture and storage of geological co2. while efforts are currently underway at european level to speed up the adoption of a directive on geological capture and storage of co2, there is a lack of appropriate initiatives at national or regional level, especially in the area of the necessary transport infrastructure.
minister, you spoke about hungary, and the solidarity shown towards hungary is encouraging, but i am also very interested in the other countries you mentioned: bulgaria, romania and particularly lithuania. can lithuania also count on the european union's solidarity in the face of the financial crisis?
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, statistics undoubtedly play a fundamental role in today's society. economic operators, institutions, policy makers, markets and citizens rely heavily on statistics to describe economic, social, ecological, cultural and other developments as well as possible. statistical data support transparency and openness in political decision-making and, for all these reasons, official statistics represent a common good and are a basic element for the proper functioning of our democracies. at european level, statistics are becoming increasingly important for the european union in the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the policies we decide here in this parliament and in the council and propose from the commission. the aim of the commission proposal under discussion today is to modernise the basic legal framework governing the production of european statistics. i would like to thank the rigorous work done in a constructive spirit by this parliament and in particular by mr schwab as rapporteur and by mrs ferreira - who is not here today and is represented by mrs van den burg - and mrs starkevičiūtė, who have worked in cooperation with eurostat, with the commission, to get this debate here. the revision stems from changes in society and the need to define more clearly the role of the european statistical system. the previous regulation governing this system dates from 1997 and since then many things have changed and this revision was necessary, a revision which will give a new impetus to the cooperation established between the national statistical institutes of our 27 member states and eurostat and which certainly lays the foundations for addressing future statistical challenges. the commission has also taken a number of measures since 2005, with the support of parliament and the council, to modernise the governance of the european statistical system. in this process, the advisory committee on european statistical governance and the european statistical advisory committee have been set up and will be taking up their duties in the coming days or weeks. in this regard, and as proposed in the new regulation, in order to increase confidence in european statistics, statistical authorities should enjoy professional independence and ensure their impartiality and the high quality of statistical production, as well as the principles set out in the code of good practice for european statistics, adopted by the commission in its recommendation on the independence, integrity and accountability of the statistical authorities of the member states and the european community. i think it is also worth mentioning, among the principles which have guided the commission's proposal and which are reflected in mr schwab's report, the objective that the best regulatory environment proposed for european statistics responds to the need to minimise the response burden on businesses and contribute to the more general objective of reducing administrative burdens at european level. i therefore conclude, mr president, by thanking again the rapporteur, mr schwab, and the whole committee on economic and monetary affairs for the excellent work they have done in providing the union with a more solid and reliable statistical building which will certainly be extremely useful to us in these times of crisis when the production of statistics, and in particular statistics on public accounts, plays an even more critical role.
for the alde group we are discussing a very important document which should help reform the european statistical system. i would like to point out, as my colleagues have done, that the rapporteur of the parliament, the statistical reform working party, the council, the presidency and the commission have worked very hard on this document. this is a great example of us working together. we may sometimes blame each other for the various problems that we have had to face in recent days, but when we all work together, we get really good results. the alde group supports the proposal and hopes that it will set out our statistical position. first, statistics must be reliable, protected from the influence of various interest groups. there are still some doubts, particularly about the quality of national financial statistics. there are confidentiality concerns with financial market statistics and there is still a need to work together with the european central bank. the quality of statistical data depends not only on the quality of the work of the specialised institutions, but also on the methodologies used, in the preparation of which we would like to see the academic institutions more actively involved. the collection of statistical data needs to be organised more efficiently using existing national registers, using generalised methods, thus reducing the administrative burden of statistical reporting on business. there are indeed many untapped reserves in this area. economic and social developments in the modern world are dynamic and statistics should be provided more quickly to enable decisions to be taken more quickly. we hope that the reform of statistics will help to solve this problem as well. the european statistical programmes shall be financed from the budget of the european union. it is hoped that the proposals will help to improve the coordination of these programmes, thus enabling community funds to be used more efficiently.
i would like to thank mr kois, who has rightly pointed out today that this problem is linked to the question of how to reconcile the free movement of capital with the stability of macroeconomic countries. i do not like it when colleagues say that this is a problem of the poor countries of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, if the german and french economies were to grow by 2 and 3 per cent, we would have no problems integrating into the single market. so if there is a need for a package to stimulate national economies, it should be implemented by the countries mentioned and then we would not be talking about stabilization funds. what we really need is not money but guarantees that the european single market will function well and grow. if there are such guarantees, what we have to achieve together, then all problems will be solved.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs kauppi for her report on the electronic company register, which i fully support. it is a brilliant idea and an excellent report, and parliament stands united in support of its implementation. i hope we will have electronic company registers in the member states as soon as possible, as well as a europe-wide electronic platform that contains all information companies are required to disclose. the proposals, if implemented, would mean less bureaucracy, more transparency, a diminished administrative burden, lower costs for companies, and, as a result, enhanced competitiveness of european companies.
i voted in favour of the report by mr andreas schwab on the european statistical regulation. i voted in favour because the content of the new regulation is really important, and it will significantly improve the existing regulation. i am referring to the definition of the european statistical system and its place in community law. it also lays down the roles of the national statistical authorities in the european statistical system in addressing statistical confidentiality and statistical quality issues. this is certainly a step forward compared to the current situation and the current regulation. it is true that the european commission's proposal to split the ess committee into two parts seems to me controversial and the rapporteur's position of no division of functions seems to me more acceptable and supportive. however, i hope that in the future, working together with parliament, the council and the commission, we will be able to overcome these differences.
in writing. − the european action plan on environment and health 2004-2010 recognises the need to improve the quality, comparability and accessibility of health status data on environmental diseases and disorders through the community statistical programme. i think that's a very important regulation. we need to know our public health perception, our propensity to be sick with one disease or another. this regulation establishes a common framework for the production of community statistics on public health and on health and safety at work. it is very important that data are collected in the european union on citizens' health awareness, physical and mental activity and disability, on the incidence of diseases that increase or decrease, on injuries, alcohol and drug damage, lifestyle, and on the availability of preventive treatment health care facilities. statistics will have to include the information necessary for community action in the field of public health to support national strategies for the development of high-quality, accessible and sustainable health care.
in writing. − the statistical task to provide objective and quantitative data to inform public opinion and decision-making processes. in the eu and in the member states, statistics are a direct tool for political and administrative decision-making. the harmonisation of eu statistical systems should therefore take due account of their importance. the scientific independence of statistical research in europe must be ensured. moreover, the rules must not be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. i support the commission's proposal for a regulation on european statistics, which is the legal basis for the collection of statistics at european level and which revises the existing legal framework governing the production of statistics at european level.
acting president of the council. - mr president, rapporteurs, mr manfred weber and mr patrick gaubert, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, mr barrot, mr weber, please convey our deepest sympathy and condolences to mrs klamt, who, of course, cannot be with us. almost four years ago, in january 2005, the european commission announced an important debate on the prospects for a proactive european policy on economic migration. it was clear that there was still a great deal of resistance and reluctance and that a long process was still needed to reach a consensus on this point. patrick gaubert called him back. he also noted how striking it was to see how much the minds of the people had matured since that date. economic migration has become the first pillar of the common immigration policy, which the member states chose to adopt when they approved the european pact on immigration and asylum at the european council on 16 october. the european parliament will vote today in plenary on the first two community texts establishing common tools for economic migration. the first, the blue card, will allow highly qualified workers access to the whole of europe and will guarantee them a set of rights and administrative facilities. the second, the single title, which combines a residence permit and a work permit, will reduce significantly the administrative burden for all those who come to work legally in the european union and will guarantee them a series of rights throughout the union. these two texts demonstrate that the union is genuinely committed to promoting legal migration, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, that it is willing to make life easier for third-country nationals who are legally resident in our territory, in short, that it is not the fortress europe that some people want to see in it. i, in turn, welcome the work done by the rapporteurs on these two proposals. it is their work that has made possible a very active cooperation, which i am pleased to stress, between the council and the european parliament throughout this work. i shall first deal with the matter of the blue card. less than a year after the commission's proposal was presented, the council succeeded in drawing up a general guideline. this was not an easy task, given the unanimity rule. the council has taken account, thanks to the excellent cooperation we have had with mrs klamt, of many of the european parliament's ideas, whether it be the definition of the beneficiaries of the card, the conditions for its issuance, attention to ethical recruitment and the possibilities of circular migration, the elimination of age discrimination or the flexibilities needed over the duration of the card. there is one point which is significantly different in the position of the european parliament and the council, and that is the question of the wage criterion. the council has set a lower threshold, with possible additional derogations for sectors in short supply, which opens up the benefit of the blue card to more people. i hope that the european parliament, in the light of the proposals that have been made, will be able to accept the council's position and thus broaden the scope of this blue card. this work promises to be a success and will send a triple message to our fellow europeans, a message about europe's determination to organise the possibilities of legal migration, particularly for professional purposes. this is the first text to be included in this specific objective. a message also on the responsiveness of european construction, with this symbol which will become the european blue card, which will allow genuine intra-european mobility for highly qualified third-country nationals and their family members, while respecting the competences of each member state which, of course, retains control of the labour market. the third message is the importance the union attaches to strengthening the attraction of skills and talents in a globalised world, in line with the efforts to boost europe's competitiveness under the lisbon strategy. the european union thus reconciles its desire to increase its attractiveness with its commitment to the development of the poorest countries. the council has taken care to introduce into the directive a whole series of provisions designed to prevent and limit brain drain. i would like to make a solemn statement here and i will of course come back to it in the answers to the various interventions you will be sure to make, because i know your quite legitimate attachment to effective and fair cooperation with the countries of origin, particularly the african ones. i now come to the directive which introduces a single permit, which combines the residence permit and the work permit. this is also an important text which considerably facilitates economic migration in a legal, transparent, responsive and predictable framework, which reduces the administrative burdens which too often impede the migration which is necessary for the economic and demographic balance of the union. above all, this text establishes for the first time a common set of rights for all workers from third countries legally working and residing in the union. the initial reception of this directive did not allow for substantial progress to be made in the near future. the work on the blue map has, however, gradually cleared the way for this difficult issue. the presidency is making every effort to take this proposal as far as possible, taking naturally the utmost account of the positions of your assembly. the work on this text has therefore been intensified and we hope to be able to lay down the main elements by the end of december. the proposal will be examined for the first time by the ministers at the justice and home affairs council meeting on 27 and 28 november. of course, a positive signal from the european parliament on the appropriateness and added value of this text will strengthen the movement that is beginning to take shape and which can pave the way for the final adoption of this directive which, of course, simplifies the lives of migrants.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs klamt - and i join in the sympathy expressed by mr jouyet - and, of course, mr patrick gaubert. their reports are of high quality and i thank the two rapporteurs from the committee on employment and social affairs, mrs jeleva and mr masiel. i also thank mr manfred weber, who has been kind enough to replace mrs klamt. the two proposals for a directive are the first in a series announced by the commission in 2005 in its action plan on legal migration. they are important both for the migrants themselves and for our member states and their businesses. and, to take up the words of patrick gaubert and those just spoken by you, mr jean-pierre jouyet, they show the true scope of this pact for immigration and asylum, which the french presidency has made possible, and they prove that this pact is indeed balanced and that it also shows the willingness of europeans to open up to these migratory flows which can be particularly useful and prove to be very positive for the future of our european society. these texts therefore enable us to show the face of an open european union, welcoming nationals of third countries, who can thus reside and work there legally at any level of qualification, of course in full enjoyment of their rights. they also demonstrate the european union's ability to agree on common instruments for economic immigration and thus strike an appropriate balance between the expectations of a society, the rights of migrants and the needs of their countries of origin. i shall begin with the horizontal instrument, the single european licence directive and the rights of migrant workers. i welcome the fact that the main lines of the commission's original proposal are being confirmed, particularly as regards the single procedure, the single permit for third country nationals admitted as workers, and the common set of rights for all, for all legally employed migrants, whatever their original reason for staying. it is absolutely fundamental to ensure that all third country nationals who are legally working enjoy the same minimum set of rights in all member states, because this seems to me to be in line with all the major european principles on fundamental rights. in addition, your report, mr gaubert, suggests new or additional elements which the commission can support. i would like to mention three amendments in particular: the amendment granting a right of temporary residence in the event of administrative delay in the examination of an application for renewal, the amendments strengthening procedural rights, and finally the amendments providing for the possibility of applying for the single permit when one is already legally resident in the member state. the commission understands and can also support the european parliament's wish to remove any restriction in the article on equal treatment and, turning to the presidency, i hope that the council will of course be open to all these amendments, wherever possible. i now turn to the proposal for a directive on the european blue card in mrs klamt's report, which mr weber has referred to. this european blue card aims to improve the attractiveness of the union, its capacity to attract highly qualified workers from third countries so that legal immigration contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of our economy in complement to the lisbon strategy. the report submitted to your assembly agrees with the commission on the need and urgency of establishing this common system in europe. the commission therefore agrees with the conclusions of the report, with some reservations. firstly, the commission certainly supports amendments which make the scheme more attractive, such as those aimed at eliminating any restrictions on equal treatment and access to the labour market after two years as a blue card holder. secondly, the inclusion of refugees in the category of legal residents who can benefit from this scheme; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. finally, the maintenance of the criterion of professional experience in certain professions; in the new technology sector in particular, experience and skills are more important than any qualifications. the commission cannot accept the amendment to limit the issuing of the blue card to nationals of the only countries with which the union has signed agreements. the amendment is aimed at reducing the possible negative effects on developing countries, but the commission considers that this would end up limiting the application of the directive excessively. in addition, it would risk creating a risk of discrimination for highly skilled migrants who could then use national systems over which neither the commission nor your parliament has any control. i would also like to express my reservations about making the derogation from the acquis allowing circular migration optional. a reservation that is frankly a disagreement. the possibility of returning for two years to the country of origin without losing longterm resident status is essential if we are to make possible staff exchanges between universities or hospitals, for example, or to encourage the involvement of diasporas in the development of the countries of origin. this would limit the circular migration that we increasingly want to see develop. finally, i would like to say a word about the need to take account of the state of the labour market. as manfred weber has pointed out, we have a europe where labour markets are segregated and it is indeed up to each state to see how many immigrants it can take in. of course, it must not be forgotten that in this area of the labour market there is a duty to welcome all european nationals from other member states. in conclusion, i turn to the presidency, mr jean-pierre jouyet, with the hope that the ministers meeting in the council next week will be able to draw as much as possible on the european parliament's amendments, which certainly add value, and i hope that we will be able to show before the end of the year that europe, far from closing in on itself, wants to be open to these migratory flows, while at the same time knowing that we want to move more and more towards a concerted management of migratory flows with the countries of immigration. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. − the blue card proposal is expected to attract skilled labour to the eu, allowing them to come for a short period, but also to stay for a long period. the proposal is that there will be no mind-leakage, but instead there will be a mind-return, a circulation. that's not likely. what does the proposal look like in the context of development cooperation policy? the blue card will bring together professionals from developing countries, trained with eu support, especially in the most sensitive areas of education and health. the shortage of such specialists will probably have to be filled by volunteers from our countries. moreover, the united kingdom, ireland and denmark do not contribute to the ethics of the blue card by not inviting professionals from developing countries in sensitive sectors . in this case, initiatives to support developing countries seem insincere. it seems that business interests are still dominant. the real blue card can bring a great intellectual loss to developing countries.
minister, commissioner, colleagues, the world is becoming more open, not just europe. modern technology, globalization, has made it so. and fighting this reality is counterproductive. i commend france for its presidency of the important initiatives we are discussing today. the european union's interest is clear: we are short of manpower, and we need highly qualified specialists. because our citizens exercise their right to leave, to live and work wherever they choose. legal immigration to the eu is a perfectly acceptable solution to the problem. it is both our response to the challenges of globalisation and the eu's drive to become more competitive. i agree that the proposals must be harmonized with each other, with other legislation, but we certainly had to tackle these problems and i congratulate both rapporteurs and the presidency once again.
mr president, mr commissioner, experience has shown that the member states themselves are looking for a way out of the financial crisis, out of the economic downturn. what is your opinion on the crisis measures? is raising taxes, broadening the tax base and raising vat a good way out of the crisis in such a difficult period?
the main message today from the european parliament to the federal and state governments of nigeria is to immediately suspend the execution of the death penalty, to declare a moratorium on the execution of the death penalty, to abolish the death penalty in general. 137 of the 192 member states of the united nations have abolished the death penalty. even among the 53 member states of the african union, nigeria is one of the few where the death penalty is still carried out. in nigeria itself, both a national investigation team and a presidential commission have been working to recommend the abolition of the death penalty, as it does not reduce crime. i call on the council, the commission and the member states to use all available means and contacts with the nigerian authorities to bring an end to the killing of people, especially minors, in the name of the law in nigeria.
dear commissioner, what i do miss in your recovery plan is a reference to financial markets. at the beginning of this year, when there were discussions on broad economic guidelines, the parliament came up with a proposal to include a financial market dimension in the guidelines. unfortunately, at that time the commission was against this proposal. further development of the events showed that we were right and i would urge you not to repeat this mistake once again and to link the economic recovery plan with the upgraded financial services action plan. if we undertake this strategy it will be possible in the long run to reflect the needs of the real economy in an ongoing modernisation of eu financial architecture. aš taip pat norėčiau paraginti pasižiūrėti į jūsų pasiūlymus finansų rinkų dalyvių akimis. šiuo metu komisija teikia tiek daug naujų pasiūlymų, kad net mums, parlamento nariams, sunku susigaudyti. jie nėra labai gerai koordinuoti. pagalvokite, kaip turi jaustis finansų rinkų institucijų vadovai ir investuotojai, kuriems tikrai sunku apsispręsti. tai anaiptol nesudaro įspūdžio, kad mūsų rinka yra stabili, todėl manau, kad didesnis koordinavimas būtinas.
president of the council. - mr president, mr mcmillan, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, the council adopted conclusions on monday on the small business act for europe, proposed by the commission. the small business act represents a strong political commitment to the 23 million smes. as mrs fontaine has pointed out, this is also an important response to the economic crisis we are experiencing. that is why, together with hervé novelli, who regrets not being here, i am confident, to reassure mrs fontaine and mrs herczog, that the european council will express strong political support for the objectives of this small business act. as you have pointed out, this small business act cannot solve all the cyclical problems but it must ensure that priority action is taken to deal with the financial crisis and the resulting economic downturn. that is why we also adopted on monday an action plan committing the member states to implementing these priority measures. it's a very, very important act. the french presidency is particularly pleased with this very significant plan. mrs fontaine has described very well what the binding guidelines of this action plan should be. first of all, we must look at the problem of financing smes. in this respect, we should welcome the efforts of the european investment bank, since €30 billion will be injected by the eib between 2008 and 2011. but beyond that, we must also ensure that there is a revision of the directive on late payment in order to alleviate the cash arrears of companies. the small business act and the action plan propose to ensure that smes are paid within 30 days. i do not know whether we will achieve this goal, but i am convinced that the direction is the right one. reducing payment delays is tantamount to relieving the cash flow of smes, whereas one in four solvency cases in europe is due to excessive payment delays. this also requires a strengthening of the venture capital market, which, as you know, is too narrow in europe compared to the united states. we have a proposal for the creation of a european venture capital vehicle and for the recognition of venture capital funds between the member states. the other priority, as you have pointed out, ladies, is simplification. smes are even more affected than large companies by bureaucracy and the various administrative burdens that fall on them. that is why we must actually implement and apply the principle of 'think small first', which is to take account of the interests of smes in all union legislation. we also want to introduce an sme test and i assure you that impact studies will be conducted and made public for each community text which has an impact on smes and it is desirable that the member states do the same. we also undertake not to ask the same information from the sme several times. it's the whole "do it all at once" thing. besides funding and simplification, there are more important measures. smes must be able to benefit fully from the single market and in particular from the ability to export. the adoption of the european company statute will therefore also enable smes to take greater advantage of the market by establishing their subsidiaries in the various european markets. in order to respond to the questions raised, the council at the highest level, and in the light of the request made by the competitiveness council to the european council, and the commission, have committed themselves to specific follow-up measures to this action plan, in particular in the context of the national reform programmes accompanying the lisbon process. we are very pleased with the impetus given to this work by this action plan last monday. the council is convinced that sme policy is one of the most important building blocks in our joint effort to combat the economic crisis and to achieve a rapid recovery of the european union's economy.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. at the beginning of the crisis - and we are at the beginning of a crisis - the question of the future of our small and mediumsized enterprises in europe has become even more important. because we should be very clear about one thing: the impact of this crisis will be more severe on small and mediumsized enterprises than on large ones, simply because the smaller ones do not have the capital to withstand a prolonged drought. this means that it is essential that the signal to europe's smes is strong and clear. i am therefore very grateful to jean-pierre jouyet and the french presidency for the great support they have given to the small business act, and i thank mrs herczog and mrs fontaine for the initiative to discuss it here today. this is important because the european council next week is being eagerly awaited. the people of europe will look to their leaders next week and expect an answer, an answer to the questions: how do we get through this crisis, how do we keep our prosperity, how do we keep our jobs, how do we keep our security? the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. that is why i am so glad that jean-pierre jouyet has just said that the support of the european council will be strong and clear. and we both agree that this means that we will certainly find more than half a sentence on this subject in the conclusions. i'm very happy about that. this policy too is really just beginning. the european parliament has a very important role to play here. because here too, words are one thing, actions are the decisive thing. and the actions for smes are primarily at national, regional and even local level. we must ensure that the principles we are anchoring in europe are brought to life in the member states and in all our regions. small and mediumsized enterprises are not beggars, but the heart of our european economy. only if we give them the framework they need now will they be able to fulfil their role within our european economy.
for the alde group small and medium-sized enterprises are the dna of our economy and must be supported in order to increase competitiveness and employment in europe. the small business act is an initiative that today needs the support of all actors in the political process. this is an important support for european smes in the face of today's financial and economic crisis. we have here a draft resolution which reflects the european parliament's concerns and commitments to the council. we need to ensure that the small business act is effectively implemented in all member states. this requires translating it into national action plans, legal documents and establishing a system for monitoring the implementation of this document in the member states. it is essential that additional measures are taken to ensure that the small business act does not suffer the fate of the european charter of fundamental rights. we must understand that documents of a recommendatory nature often end up on the desks of national bureaucrats and that the ultimate aim is not achieved. tax credits and incentives for 'start-ups', microcredit, credit guarantees, risk capital, free information and advice, continuous promotion of the image and authority of the entrepreneur, etc. the results will justify the measures, and that takes effort and courage. i am confident that the small business act, if implemented at community level, will help to avert an economic and social downturn in europe and mitigate the effects of the financial crisis.
ten years ago, the european union agreed on a code of conduct for arms exports. it's a pity, but it's not feasible. the council, meeting in closed session, is unable to adopt a common position. it would be very important to know which countries are blocking it, while allowing themselves to make big money off of people's blood and tears. in march, we adopted a resolution on this issue in the european parliament. but as we speak, weapons produced in the european union are being smuggled into conflict zones and into the hands of criminals in an increasingly illegal flow. the paradox is that these weapons are also found in countries that receive large amounts of eu development aid. the presidency of the council of europe - france, possibly the czech republic - must do everything possible to adopt a code of conduct on arms exports to prevent the irresponsible transfer of eu arms to criminals. if this fails, the parties obstructing the transaction must be identified.
no country in the european union has yet faced problems of the scale that will hit lithuania in a year's time. i mean the energy problems. under the eu accession treaty, lithuania will have to shut down the ignalina nuclear power plant, which produces about 70 percent of the country's electricity. the commission proposal allows lithuania to increase its greenhouse gas emissions somewhat compared to 2005 but does not take into account the consequences of the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant, which will result in almost double the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by lithuanian power plants. lithuania is the only new country in the european union to run out of emission allowances after 2009. this is a blow to industry, to the economy as a whole and to private consumers. the cost of electricity is expected to double or more. increased use of fossil fuels will increase emissions by 5 million tonnes per year. therefore, lithuania expects to receive a rebate of approximately this amount under the rules of the emissions trading scheme for annual unsold allowances until the new power plant is built. the climate change package is extremely important and sensitive. i realize that each country has its own challenges and peculiarities. it would be very unfortunate if requests for exemptions were to destroy this fragile document, so necessary for europe and the world. but lithuania's situation is really dramatic, and it is also special in that we are not connected to the electricity grids of western european countries. i urge the participants in the trialogue to take this into account.
in writing. − the multiannual management plan for the western scots hake is welcomed. i believe that the monitoring of licensed fishing vessels authorised to fish in the area concerned should be carried out by means of electronic logs and daily transmission of catch reports to the fisheries monitoring centre of the flag member state. vessels licensed to fish in one area should not be allowed to fish in an area other than that to the west of scotland during the same fishing trip. it is important to improve the data on which scientific assessments of the stock of atlantic herring west of scotland are based. therefore, in addition to the current acoustic surveys to determine the surplus indices of adult atlantic herring, i support the pilot study of the (mic) network in 2008 and 2009 to determine the suitability and effectiveness of this method to provide a second and independent surplus index of atlantic herring in the area west of scotland and i welcome this initiative. i also agree with the commission that the management plan should be reviewed every four years in the light of the stecf recommendation. however, if any amendments are proposed following this review, they should be subject to consultation with the pelagic rfmo and the european parliament.
in writing. − the adoption of this regulation will make life easier for citizens. the first objective is to simplify the procedure for determining maintenance obligations. it also provides that, where a decision on maintenance obligations is adopted in the member states, that decision is binding in all member states. the regulation also establishes an operational system of cooperation between central authorities of the member states to assist creditors in the recovery of debts.
in writing. − national metrology regulations apply to many categories of measuring instruments and products. this directive lays down general provisions on ec model approval, on the procedures for initial verification and on the methods of ec metrological control. the directives applying to the various measuring instruments and product categories lay down technical requirements for design, performance and accuracy, control procedures. ec type-approval of measuring instruments at eu level means that they are authorised to carry out a preliminary inspection and, if not required, are authorised to be placed on the market and used. this new version of the directive contains amendments relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and it is therefore necessary to replace the codified version of directive 71/316/eec by the new wording.
in writing. − the 1979 birds directive (79/409/eec) and the related measures for the protection of migratory birds have led to a disproportionate increase in the cormorant population, which is now spread far from the usual migratory birds to areas where the birds were not previously found. this surplus in many regions of the european union has had a direct impact on local fish stocks or fisheries, making cormorants a european problem. cormorants consume between 400 and 600 g of fish a day, bringing the annual catch in european waters to more than 300 000 tonnes. in many member states, this represents several times more fish for food than is produced by the professional inland fishing and fisheries sector. the combined production of the aquaculture sector in france, spain, italy, germany, hungary and the czech republic will amount to less than 300 000 tonnes. given the high mobility of cormorants as migratory birds, a coordinated european action or management plan appears to be the only way to achieve the objective and should in no way be seen as contrary to the birds directive 1979.
in writing. this directive does not substantially change the current regulatory framework, but improves and strengthens it. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the main focus of the examination of this legislation has been on: the use of carcinogens, chemicals and fragrances in toys, the procedures for assessing the safety of toys, the requirements for special warnings, the scope of the directive, flexibility and its relationship with other community acts. the complete prohibition of carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic, allergenic and flavouring substances should be considered in the light of the practical implementation of the directive. the natural residues of some hazardous substances in other materials are difficult to remove or can be very expensive and therefore difficult to implement in practice. on the other hand, any categorical provision that all carcinogenic, allergenic, etc. substances will be banned will be difficult to implement for the simple reason that there is not and cannot be a definitive list of such substances, and it is very difficult to draw a clear line between dangerous and non-dangerous substances. a total ban on all fragrances would be disproportionate and would have a negative impact on certain toy manufacturers. i am glad that the itre committee has shown understanding in voting and has not gone too far in tightening the requirements of the directive, which would have been to the disadvantage of neither business nor consumers themselves. when unreasonably stringent requirements are imposed, the temptation to break them increases, and if they are followed, negative side effects result. remember, it is often the consumer who ultimately pays for everything.
in writing. − india's air traffic market is currently one of the fastest growing in the world. the commission notes that the indian authorities have not provided any evidence that the indian aviation industry is in a situation of overcapacity. although the indian aviation sector has long been characterised by a restrictive approach limited market access and tight state controls india has taken decisive steps in recent years towards a more open and competitive aviation market. with its extraordinary growth rate, india is gradually opening up its market to offer new business and growth opportunities to european airlines, aircraft manufacturers and service providers. while ambitious, the development of fully open aviation with india should be gradual and best done in stages to ensure a smooth transition and market integration based on a gradual implementation of the new rules on a level playing field. i therefore support the signing of the community-india horizontal agreement.
in writing. − there is a risk that medals and tokens similar to euro coins may be used for fraudulent purposes: firstly, citizens may believe that metal objects are legitimate means of payment. secondly, medals and tokens, if their size and metal properties are similar to euro coins, could be used for fraudulent purposes in coin-operated machines. it is therefore necessary to define more clearly the criteria for the similarity of medals and tokens to euro coins.
in writing. − including the coastal zones of all 27 member states, the european union's coastal zone extends for more than 89 000 km. yet this european coastal zone is very diverse, with its large cities and the capitals of european countries. some regions could not exist without their surrounding coastlines, such as the outermost regions, which live solely from tourism and maritime activities, but there are also regions whose geographical location of coastal zones determines the independence of their economic development from tourism or where tourism is of little importance in relation to their gross domestic product. according to some projections, by 2010 some 75% of the world's population will live in coastal areas. this high concentration of population on the coast is in itself a good indication of the need to analyse pragmatically the impact of tourism on coastal areas, and more specifically on the national, regional and local economies. legislation on the regulation of sustainable coastal tourism is therefore necessary.
in writing. − in an age of globalisation and the very rapid development of information and communication technologies (ict), both new technologies and media are increasingly penetrating all areas of life. more than ever before, society needs to keep pace with this rapid technological change and learn to deal with the flow of information. at the same time, the media act as gatekeepers for the choice of important topics and thus influence the agenda of politics and everyday life. however, this choice is based on an individual approach and is therefore only approximately objective. media literacy should help people to overcome these challenges and become conscious media consumers.
i would like to congratulate france on its excellent presidency this semester. the global financial crisis, the war between russia and georgia, and the eu's relations with china - these are just some of the challenges. this is the context of this six-month period, and france has, it must be admitted, played its role as eu presidency effectively and efficiently. i would like to say a few words about the european neighbourhood policy, the eastern partnership, which was discussed at the eu council in october and last week in brussels. the events in georgia are a clear example of how the european union can act at the epicentre of events and how it can influence them effectively. and most importantly, how united and solidary the european union can be. another example is belarus, which has not been able to benefit from the european neighbourhood policy for many years. i would like to point out that this autumn there are also developments in belarus which give hope that the eu-belarus relationship can be qualitatively different, that it can be a genuine neighbourhood relationship. the opportunities for cooperation are very real if the belarusian leadership fulfills its commitments on freedom of the press, elections, the internet and others that have been sent to us. president sarkozy said today (i quote): 'i tried to move europe, but in the last six months europe has changed me. i became more tolerant, more open. colleagues, it seems to me that europe is helping to change a lot of people, including us. and as for belarus, and the leader of that country, alexander lukashenko. and that's great.
although the rapporteur presented her report in a somewhat pessimistic manner, i think she did a good job. the compromise now gives a sense of how much individual eu countries will have to contribute to the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by one fifth in specific areas. like other 21st century eu countries with low gdp per capita, lithuania will have the right to increase these allocations by 15%. however, the burden of complying with quotas will be heavy for both new and old eu countries. so let's remember that the cheapest and cleanest energy is the energy saved. the directives on sustainable energy sources, fuel quality and the environmentally friendly use of cars need to be implemented as precisely and qualitatively as possible. it is also essential, especially for the 21st century eu member states, to increase the union's funding for energy efficiency improvements in multi-apartment buildings.
the black number of road accidents in europe continues to turn with a menacing edge, with the death toll having stabilised after a steady decline in recent years. new efforts are needed to meet the eu's objectives. the european commission has considered and prepared proposals, the rapporteur has added her own, and here we have a report on the application of penalties to road traffic offenders from other countries, which is important for everyone. the number of catches varies considerably across the union. lithuania's road deaths are five times higher than in the former eu countries. without shifting the main burden to brussels and emphasising the responsibility of the states, i nevertheless believe that the union should gradually move towards a common or at least harmonised policy on driver behaviour and rules on the roads. that has been discussed and i agree with it. this is all the more so now that, following the enlargement of the schengen area, more and more cars with different national numbers are appearing in both the old and the new member states of the european union. we all have an interest in the spread of a culture of smart driving across the union, in the disappearance of the feeling of impunity: 'i'll drive and stand in a foreign country as usual, but they won't find me.' and we do not want to accelerate the rotation of that black counter by those countries which are opposed to the proposals for this directive.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, ms kauppi and mr sakalas, of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs respectively, for their fast and very efficient work on this file. the directives on settlement finality and financial collateral are working well and enjoy wide support in the market. nevertheless, i am glad that we have been able to agree, in less than eight months, on the necessary adaptations to bring them fully into line with the latest regulatory and market developments. this is important for financial stability and in particular for the continued proper functioning of settlement systems, which become increasingly interlinked, while keeping their own identity. there was no need to create super-systems, and this is clearly spelled out in the amendments. my services started preparing the commission proposal in early 2007, before the onset of the ongoing financial turmoil. but i believe the changes we have proposed are vindicated by the challenges which the turmoil has raised. the establishment of a harmonised legal framework for the use of credit claims as collateral in cross-border transactions will further enhance market liquidity, so badly needed in the present environment. we expect that, with easier rules, credit claims will be used more frequently in the future. of course, this depends on the demand in the market for other forms of collateral. however, we have seen during the first months of the financial crisis that the demand for credit claims was growing, for instance as compared to the notorious asset-backed securities. the explanation is simple: as long as credit claims are not bundled together, which is the case with securitisation, the collateral taker is able to assess their creditworthiness on an individual basis before deciding whether or not to accept them. what you are asked to agree on by the voting on the report by ms kauppi is to facilitate the use of credit claims by abolishing some formal requirements. the commission undertakes that in five years’ time it will report back to you on these changes. in particular we will look at how the abolition of the obligation to register or notify the debtor on the provision of credit claims as financial collateral is working, especially in those member states that, for the time being, are hesitant and want to opt out from article 3(1) of the financial collateral directive. let me take this opportunity of wishing piia-noora kauppi well for the future. i know she is going back to a very interesting position in finland. during my time as commissioner she has been exceptionally cooperative and helpful and always gave the utmost in any task that was assigned to her by parliament. i know she will make a great success of her future career, and i wish her and her family well.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, i was appointed by the committee on legal affairs to draft the opinion for the main report by ms kauppi in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i submitted two amendments. the committee on legal affairs approved the draft opinion and is in favour of my submitted amendments that the european central bank should be able to designate and notify their own systems directly without interference from the german bundesbank or other national authorities. we had a trialogue with experts from the central bank, council and the european commission. the experts from the central bank gave a statement and expressed their strong support for the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs. conversely, the council had difficulties in the working groups to find a compromise agreement on one of the tabled amendments because member states are not in favour of giving the ecb the right to designate and notify their own systems directly. i regret that this tabled amendment was not approved by the council, but i believe that there is a great opportunity to raise this topic in the near future.
for the alde group the document presented only appears to be technical. indeed, it ensures the functioning of a secure securities settlement system which is important to many people who are members of pension funds, insurance companies or investment companies. the communication document is well prepared, as are all its documents. i am very pleased to have had the privilege of working with her on many of the financial documents and i am very sorry that today is her last day in parliament. we the alde group can support this document because it reflects our position. what is that position? first of all, we believe that the single securities settlement market in the european union needs to be developed, as it is highly fragmented. however, we do not want to create a monopoly and we believe that the present report allows for the creation of flexible cooperation agreements between the different systems, the introduction of new connections. in the context of financial collateral, it was very important to us that the procedures were simplified and made clearer, that the resolution of property disputes in insolvency and various emergency situations was made easier and that all the conditions were made clearer. this too seems to have been achieved. like the other rapporteurs, i regret that the problem of the settlement systems set up by the european central bank has not been resolved. i would urge the commission to prepare a compromise proposal on this matter as soon as possible, as the european central bank will have to pay increasing attention to the functioning of such systems and the issue of their supervision, which may be hindering the extension of these rules to systems affected by the activities of the european central bank, should be resolved.
mr president, some people like to say that the european union sometimes operates inefficiently, but this document is a good example of how, when needed, we can act very rapidly given the short time framework during which we reached an agreement. i just want to say that this agreement sends a very important signal to the citizens of the european union that we are able to react to their needs. another very important point is that, though we are very different, we are still able to reach an agreement on major issues such as the amount of deposit guarantees, the pay out period and other subjects important to ordinary citizens. this compromise may not be perfect, but it is nevertheless a good proof that we can act together.
in writing. - fossil fuels have long been the lifeblood of society. we know that modernization would not be possible without the abundance of cheap oil, coal and gas. but that time will soon be over. energy security and the economy, but above all climate change, require a fundamental change in our energy and transport systems. for many years, climate change was seen as primarily an environmental issue. however, it is now widely recognised that climate change affects all sectors of society and that if we do not act quickly, it could have devastating consequences for society.
member of the commission. - mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here again at the end of the year to celebrate the publication of the annual report on human rights. this is a particularly important date in this year of the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. the commission's proposal, in all its simplicity of 30 articles and in the universal vision it embodies, has not been altered. moreover, it is still very relevant in a world where too many people continue to suffer daily from the violation of their fundamental rights. each of them reminds us that there is still much to be done to make the rights affirmed in the declaration a tangible reality. like the whole of the european parliament this morning, i was very moved by the presence of most of the sakharov prize winners and i was also very moved by the words of mrs elena bonner. i have a deep admiration for all human rights defenders. now, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on human rights details the action taken by the european union to this end. i would like to highlight two important developments and two challenges. first development: the european union made good progress in 2008 in consolidating its external policy instruments to tackle discrimination and violence against women. beyond the emblematic situations, including that in eastern congo, violence against women still represents a global scourge. the implementation of security council resolutions 1325 on women, peace and security and 1820 on violence against women remains insufficient. i am very pleased that the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon, has now responded positively to my request, with the support of 40 women leaders, to hold a ministerial conference on the implementation of resolution 1325 in 2010. in this context, we will strengthen the coordination of european instruments. the council has just adopted a new overall approach to the implementation of resolutions 1325 and 1820, which applies both to european political security and defence operations (esdp) and to community instruments. this will help us better integrate the gender dimension, from crisis prevention and management to peacebuilding and reconstruction. in the same spirit, the european union has just adopted, under the french presidency, new european union guidelines on combating violence and discrimination against women. the second development that is close to my heart concerns our human rights dialogues. in 2008, we opened new dialogues with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, turkmenistan and tajikistan, thus achieving our goal of covering all the countries of central asia. similarly, we have held two promising sessions of our new dialogue with the african union this year. finally, we have agreed on the modalities of five new dialogues in latin america. we remain more determined than ever to involve civil society in the preparation and also in the follow-up of the dialogues. these dialogues are not simple - as the recent dialogue with china shows - and it is therefore important to measure the impact of these efforts. we need to see how we can better articulate the political message and the concrete actions on the ground. this brings me to the two challenges mentioned above. first, the challenge of multilateralism. the action of the united nations is irreplaceable as a guarantee of the universality of human rights. how can we improve the effectiveness of the united nations and our contribution to its work? the european union's commitment is certainly yielding results, such as the support of a growing number of countries for the resolution on the death penalty, or the adoption of the resolutions on iran, north korea and myanmar, initiatives initiated or co-sponsored by the european union in new york. in the context of today's joint council-commission statement, i would like to confirm our support for the french initiative on sexual orientation. the commission is prepared to raise these issues, including the decriminalisation of homosexuality, in its contacts with third countries, in a context of mutual respect, sensitivity and respective customs. the process of the universal periodic review is well under way in geneva. but these results should not obscure the growing difficulty for the european union to play its role as a bridge builder in a un environment increasingly polarized by a logic of blocs. the recommendations in mrs andrikienė's report, which your assembly will be called upon to approve in january, will be useful for further reflection. the second challenge is that of efficiency. the european union is increasing its activities in support of human rights in an increasing number of countries. how can we increase our impact? i think we must ensure that our various instruments are better coordinated in the service of our priorities, whether it be our political dialogue, our diplomatic action and the european instrument for democracy and human rights, electoral observation or the integration of the human rights dimension into our other external policies. the objective of coherence, and thus of greater efficiency, should be a major concern for all the institutions.
for the ppe-de group it is impossible to speak about human rights in the world today in the european parliament without mentioning hu jia. we all attended an exciting ceremony a few hours ago, which hu jia himself was unable to attend, but his work and efforts to defend the rights of people with aids and fight for the environment in china will be heard by people all over the world today. a few weeks ago, i was in china and i saw how right hu jia is in fighting for the environment. the enormous pollution makes it scary to see the sun in the sky. today we cannot but mention the former sakharov prize winners: ms san suu kyi of burma, mr oswaldo paya and mrs de blanco. we are missing all of them here in the european parliament today and we have to speak again about the unsatisfactory human rights situation in burma and cuba. last week we marked the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, but today we must also acknowledge that human rights are not only not respected but are also being grossly violated in many countries. we are discussing the 2008 annual report on human rights in the world. it is a very detailed account of human rights issues. the council and the commission of the european union deserve to be congratulated on the excellent document they have produced. i'd like to emphasize a few things. firstly, what the commissioner said about the united nations human rights council and the role of the european union in it, and the role of the united nations in general in the defence of human rights in the world. secondly, the guidelines of the european union's policy on the death penalty and their implementation. third, human rights dialogue and consultation. ladies and gentlemen, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the united nations human rights council should make full and proper use of its mandate as the united nations body for the protection of human rights and ensure maximum transparency and participation of civil society in its work. i would like to wish all of us that all the institutions of the european union act in unison and in agreement to protect human rights in the world.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely cooperation in the field of education and training that aims to promote cultural diversity, which is also strongly reflected in the composition of languages, and one of the most beautiful conclusions, i would say very sensitive and important politically, but also mentally for the future of the union, was adopted in november, when the 27 ministers confirmed their commitment to creating the conditions for young people's mobility as the rule, not the exception. today, mobility is rather limited because of the lack of resources, but in the future it can be one of the great tools for promoting both diversity and openness, and communication or dialogue between cultures. i am pleased to see that support for such cooperation is growing, and particularly in the european parliament. so, on my part, i'd like to thank you for your understanding and continued support.
a question from the education sector about migration, but this time from the new eu countries to the old ones. as we know, some of the new eu countries are facing a 'braindrain' problem, for example, teachers who have completed higher education in one country go to another country where they work in a completely unrelated profession but are paid more. what is the commission's view of the problem and what measures would it propose?
