adopted by the commission on 27 june. - mr president, i have to say something. i wanted to put two figures in the room in this debate so that we know what we are talking about. there are 700 million cars in the world today with a $100 oil price. tata introduced a low-cost car last week that consumes only five liters. five liters is a lot for such a small car! this clearly shows that in the emerging countries -- china, india, other asian countries, south america, african countries -- hundreds of millions more cars will be added in the next few years. and in view of this, we cannot protect manufacturers in europe who believe that they have to put two-tonne limousines on the market with a consumption of seven, eight, ten or more litres because we have a so-called competitive advantage. i think today's debate is becoming a mourning game. mr ferber of the csu recently threatened commission president barroso that his cdu/csu group would not support a second mandate for mr barroso if he continued to support mr dimas and to fight against the german automobile industry. mr verheugen, if you will excuse me, you cannot be angry with mr sarkozy. why are you so angry? because he and mr prodi wrote a letter to the commission to ensure that the angle of inclination of the curve was not set at 80 as the german car industry wanted, but that a compromise was found. i think that what mr prodi and mr sarkozy have done in this debate is very, very legitimate. i am not surprised that an fdp politician here is, of course, falling back on the german car lobby. excuse me, chatzi, your report falls behind what chris did because instead of area you now put weight in the foreground, and because instead of 125 grams you now demand only technology 125 grams integrated. that means that we are going back a long way in parliament today. and this argument from the timeline! what are we gonna do? we're just trying to get technology that already exists to market faster in 2012. the most important thing is missing: where is the 2020 target? mr verheugen, you are asking for a stable framework. how can i, as an automotive manager, know where i want to go if european policy does not set a framework for me to be energy efficient in 2020? that is not in the commission's proposal, and it is not in your proposal. if this parliament is to do anything in the legislative report, it should make a proposal for where we should be in 2020. that is what we need: stable, long-term planning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to ask mr verheugen one more question. mr verheugen, in your speech you said that the regulatory framework we are now introducing for the automobile industry would lead to a kind of displacement of european industry. you have always spoken of the pressure on the european car industry. perhaps you can clarify in your post later that the set of rules we are creating applies, of course, to all car manufacturers worldwide. this means that the japanese automobile industry must of course also comply with these rules. and perhaps another thing in this regard: you introduced the lead market initiatives a week ago. it is not right that we should position europe as the market with the most demanding legislation in the automobile sector, and thus create a lead market for efficient cars, also in the light of the climate and oil problems.
in writing. - i have not voted in favour of this report on the airport charges directive because what is proposed here will lead to unacceptable discrimination against luxembourg airport. that's no way to run a small country. the application of the directive to luxembourg airport, with 1.6 million passengers per year, and the non-application to the direct competitors frankfurt hahn or brussels-charleroi, which handle over 3 million passengers, is an unjustifiable discrimination in the internal market, simply because a national border is in between. in this case, it is not national frontiers that must be decisive but objective criteria if the purpose of the directive is to prevent the possible abuse of a dominant position by airports. in the case of smaller airports, even if they are the only one in a country, there is no such risk of abuse, especially since the mentioned competing airports, where low-cost airlines have also established themselves, are within easy reach. luxembourg is so small that you can drive 30 minutes and be in three neighbouring countries. the proposal is a flagrant breach of the principle of proportionality, which cannot be tolerated. that is why i object to this proposal.
in writing. the compromise on which parliament is to decide is an improvement on the council's position, but it remains deficient on many key points in the field of consumer credit agreements. the minimum of eur 200, the amount of credit from which the directive applies, is in my view far too low given the standard of living in most member states. similarly, there is no need to harmonise the provisions governing compensation in the event of early repayment. the differences between member states are too great. the so-called compromise negotiated by the council is merely the addition of different national provisions and brings more complications than harmonization. in my view, the directive is far too bureaucratic, both for businesses, credit institutions and consumers. the minimum amount of information it provides is too high and too indigestible. this may cause confusion for informed consumers.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank the members of the committee on international trade and, above all, my colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs, who have actively contributed to the drafting of this report, which we wanted balanced and which was finally adopted unanimously. yes, there is great interest in the three countries of the caucasus. armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, all three of which emerged from the breakup of the ussr, are still suffering the legacy of those times, especially with the unresolved conflicts in nagorno-karabakh, abkhazia and ossetia, which have inflamed the climate between them and their neighbours and triggered a deadly arms race. but the three countries have chosen to adopt european values by becoming members of the council of europe in the 1980s and later signing partnership and cooperation agreements with the european union. their geographical proximity and their position as a transit area between iran, turkey, russia, the caspian and the black sea mean that we have an interest in helping these countries to strengthen democracy and the rule of law in this region and to establish a viable framework for regional development and cooperation that allows for political stability. this is all the more important as these countries, although experiencing strong growth, still have high levels of poverty and unemployment. we have analysed the possibilities for action in several chapters, which i shall summarize briefly. first, in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, we have emphasised a differentiated approach based on individual merits while making the regional cooperation component a major objective. we ask the commission to expand these contacts with civil society and, above all, we support the initiative to carry out a feasibility study for a free trade agreement with georgia and armenia and to support azerbaijan in the process of accession to the wto. the 'democracy, human rights and the rule of law' aspect is obviously an essential element and we welcome the efforts made by armenia after the constitutional reform, but we encourage it to continue them in the establishment of an independent judiciary and public service. as regards azerbaijan, while we are concerned about the deterioration of human rights and media freedom, we welcome the presidential pardon which has allowed the release of several journalists and call for an investigation into allegations of police violence. as for georgia, which has undertaken major reforms since 2003 and has experienced the turbulence we know, we welcome the peaceful conduct of the presidential elections, but the very tense atmosphere and the allegations of rights violations lead us to ask the authorities to investigate the complaints without delay. we also call on the opposition forces to behave responsibly and to respect the vote. in summary, we call on the three countries to guarantee freedom of expression, assembly and the media, as well as balanced and honest access to the media by the opposition, and we call on them to step up the fight against corruption and to create a favourable investment climate. as regards the negotiations to conclude visa procedures for georgia, we can only recommend that the commission and the council should start them in view of what is happening in abkhazia and ossetia. as for the peaceful settlement of conflicts, this is obviously the sine qua non for lasting stability in the region. i think we have dealt with it in a balanced way. i shall not go into detail. i would simply point out - as we have stressed - that the contradiction between the principle of self-determination and territorial integrity has so far contributed to the perpetuation of conflicts in the region and that this problem can only be overcome through negotiations based on the principles enshrined in the united nations charter and the helsinki final act. the minsk group's latest proposals will hopefully help to bridge the gaps. these would be the best gifts for the hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons who suffer so cruelly. finally, as regards cooperation in the fields of energy and transport, while it is clear that the new initiatives increase the possibilities for opening up, it is becoming increasingly evident that the isolation of armenia is only getting worse. in conclusion, i would like to say that the purpose of this report is simply to show our sincere interest in the south caucasus region, its people, its history, its goals and its hopes, and that we would like to know them better in order to help them achieve them.
member of the commission. − madam president, i must say that was one of the best debates i have ever had, and at this very late moment of the day. it was about the european neighbourhood policy, which is already there. many of you have said the european union has to do a lot, but the european union has done a lot, as others have said. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, ms anastase and ms polfer, because i think you have brought about a very interesting debate. but what is the new element of this black sea synergy? it is the regional element and, as was rightly said by some members who unfortunately are no longer here; it was under the german presidency, to which i would like to pay tribute, that there was the idea of having a regional dimension. this is now the regional dimension of the bilateral part of the neighbourhood policy to the east. that means that, to achieve a synergy, we are trying to bring together not only the neighbourhood policy countries, but also two other very important players: turkey and russia. therefore, it is not a strategy but a synergy, because there are, of course, different strategies. if you think: we have a neighbourhood policy, we have a particular strategy towards russia and, of course, we have a candidate country – turkey. but, still, we think that a policy on working together is very important. in the framework of the troika, i am going, together with other colleagues, to this region very soon – i think in two weeks’ time – and i will certainly take a lot of what has been said here with me. i shall now come to a few points, because there is such a lot to be said that i could speak for another half an hour, but i do not want to do that, because i think we have had a very interesting debate, and a lot will have to be said in the future. trade is one of the important parts. you have spoken about energy, about transport, about climate change, as i have myself. there are other aspects, but trade is a very important one, and there is a feasibility study on trade already on the way. there is a commission initiative. what is the aim? the aim is to evaluate the prospect of further trade openings, for instance in the case of georgia, in the case of armenia, but of course we have to see how things are going to evolve. this is one thing. secondly, my personal idea when i presented the neighbourhood policy in one of my last communications – not in the very last but the one before – was to say that we need an economic neighbourhood area, an economic space, and this is also what some members have mentioned here. so the idea is to have a sort of free trade in the future. but of course we have to get there step by step. an area of justice, freedom and liberty will also be there in future, but, of course, it is again a step-by-step approach. many have spoken about a visa policy. i can tell you that, as a commission, we have been quite open to that. but you know very well that this is the member states’ competence, so if you speak about visa fees, you know there is a possibility for member states, in principle, to concede visa freedom and there is also a possibility for member states to say they would like to go ahead with visa facilitation. but it is clearly not the competence of the commission. i just wanted to mention that, because the commission is always addressed on things where it has tried but has not gone further because of the realities. i shall now move on to energy. of course, it is a very important region for energy, and we need coordinated decisions by many – by state and by private players – for long-distance pipelines. you know that the commission uses south caucasus and black sea regional cooperation to facilitate decisions and to diversify sources and routes of supply. this includes contacts, for instance, regarding the trans-caspian gas pipeline, nabucco. you know there is now a coordinator, but, again, it is not only the commission. it is a matter of the commission and the member states. and again, some member states have already gone for some different ideas, which are not always within our unified approach. i think another very important aspect is port development. this is high on our agenda in the framework of our motorways of the sea programme. so this will also be reflected in the next phase of the traceca project. let me now answer mr beazley. yes, indeed, there is also the role of intercultural dialogue in this respect. but, for instance, yesterday i was in madrid, where the alliance of civilisations was launched, which is now a project on a global scale, within the framework of the united nations. certainly, one of the local and regional aspects will be this aspect, but i think we should put it into this new global framework. then, on the other hand, you mentioned ngo exchanges. on this, i can tell you that the black sea cross-border cooperation programme already supports contact between ngos. the commission is planning some ngo events this year concerning economic cooperation and freedom of the press, and we are cooperating closely in this field with the black sea forum, an initiative of romania. finally, i think what mr beazley mentioned about history books is certainly one of those interesting elements. by the way, of course, for the many projects that are being mentioned facility funds are necessary. therefore, we have created in the neighbourhood policy the neighbourhood investment fund which, in principle, targets the south and the east. but within regional cooperation there is also a possibility for projects to be brought up. i think these are the major points that i would like to make at this stage, but i am sure we can come back to this topic again, maybe after the meetings have taken place. and you also know that we are trying, at least as a commission, to facilitate the questions of how we can help to resolve the frozen conflicts. this is, of course, a much more difficult area, because every one is very different, but we are at least trying with our projects to help and to get the right environment in order to facilitate settlements. we do hope, together with the member states and the council, to come to a good solution.
the rapporteur. - madam president, very briefly, i would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke and my collaborators, and i was very pleased to see a broad convergence of views on the need to deepen our relations with the countries of the south caucasus, to share with them our experience and to accompany them on the path of their reforms, both political and economic. i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for her availability this evening, but also for the availability she has shown and for contacting us to share with us the information and follow-up on this matter. i can assure him right now that he has our interest, our attention and our friendship.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i simply wanted to ask mr tannock whether the addition he proposes is to be regarded as an addition or whether he intends thereby to remove the violations and ill-treatment committed in custody and in prison. if he considers his amendment to be an addition, i can only support it. if, on the other hand, he wants to remove part of the existing text, i can only recommend voting against it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in paragraph 32 we repeat the two conditions, namely territorial integrity and self-determination, although we have already done so in paragraph 30. but the author of the amendment added "the self-determination of the people who live there". i strongly recommend that the "people living there" be removed, as this would leave out refugees and internally displaced persons. so if the author of the amendment agrees to remove these few words, i can support the amendment, otherwise i recommend that it be rejected.
in writing. in many recitals and paragraphs of this very long resolution, open doors are being forced through. we are demanding measures which have, fortunately, been taken for a long time. it is true that some of the directives on equal treatment and opportunities for women and men are not being properly implemented. but if discrimination persists in the areas covered by this panoply of directives adopted since 1975, whose fault is it? all these directives contain provisions on appeals. the discriminated against have only to go to court and they will win, which has been amply proven in many cases in my country, fortunately. unfortunately, there are some incongruous claims in this report which have nothing to do with the role of women in industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is not for us to ask for "control" of the relocation of companies. it is utopian to ask for "greater choice in the workplace". if my business is located in luxembourg city without a branch, i cannot apply to work in schifflange where i live. it is on the basis of these observations that i voted for this report.
madam president, this parliament has a vision of 21 different renewable energy technologies for the 21st century. with what the commission is proposing today, we are taking a first step – 20% in 2020 – towards a europe which will be run almost entirely and exclusively by renewables at the end of this century. this is millions of jobs for europe; this is technology leadership; this is co2 reduction, less dependency on gas and oil imports, more competition in an energy market which is dominated by the happy few and, therefore, i thank mr piebalgs for not having given in to the electricity lobby by killing the guaranteed price systems, because it is only guaranteed price systems that will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in this market. biofuels at 10% is a target which was imposed on policy by car makers and the sugar industry. you did not have the courage to drop it. we will have the courage. lastly, i have a precise question for the commission. we, as greens, are in favour of protecting european industry against environmental dumping, but, mr barroso, there is a contradiction in what you have announced. if the european energy-intensive industry gets the allowances completely for free, how can you justify the fact that the chinese steel company will have to pay for imports? if our industry is completely off the hook, the wto will never accept a scheme whereby those who import to our markets have to pay, so there is a fundamental contradiction in what you have announced, or at least you have to clarify this because, otherwise, you are cheating people.
i have to say, madam president, the completion of the internal market in postal services is a case in point: what takes a long time finally becomes a good thing! what is on the table after 15 years of tough negotiations, even i can agree with. i am one of those who would have liked to have kept the postal monopoly on letters under 50 grams. now, this final stage of the controlled opening of the postal market to competition will take effect on 1 january 2011. in view of the structure of the postal services in luxembourg, the requirements for the employment of army volunteers in the public service and the resulting costs, i could not have supported a rapid and insufficiently controlled opening of the postal market, because it would have risked unreasonable consequences for staff and customers. for the first reading i therefore proposed to the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, whom i thank for his understanding, that small countries with a small population be allowed a further two-year grace period to continue reserving certain services for the universal service provider. what i had described discreetly, so that the exception applied to luxembourg, the ministers wanted to state unambiguously by naming the countries. that's for sure. it is important that the universal service ensures that the goods are picked up and quickly delivered to the residential address or business premises on any working day, even in remote or sparsely populated areas. the external financing necessary to cover the net costs of the universal service and thus the question of affordable tariffs is also satisfactorily settled. finally, contrary to what the leftists want to say, the maintenance of permanent, qualified jobs in the universal service providers, the observance of employment conditions, the social security systems are well protected by existing legislation or collective agreements. you should read the lyrics. it is also expressly stated that social considerations must be duly taken into account in the preparation for the opening of the postal market. i do not see why rich sighted people should send free mail at the taxpayer's expense. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. subsidiarity is compulsory !
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the hall report is ringing the alarm bells. we are in the middle of sustainable energy week and, however positive this event is, it should not divert attention from the fact that what governments, in particular, have achieved over the last two or three years on energy efficiency is extremely disappointing. not implementing legislation, sending energy efficiency action plans which are not action plans but just a compilation of some sort – that is ridiculous! i call on the pride of prime ministers. come on, prime ministers! you come to brussels in march one year after the historic summit where you prime ministers have given a lot of speeches about the priority of priorities being energy efficiency, and then you come one year later and you have achieved almost nothing as governments! i think we should all join forces to urge governments forward. the commission must also approve and take new initiatives on building on chp and on labelling electricity savings. finally, on my good friend schatzi: der einzige hansel hier, das bist du, denn weihnachtsmärkte gab es schon, als es noch keine heizlüfter gab, und ich denke, das parlament ist komplett in seinem recht, um zumindest die frage zu stellen, welche inkonsequenz wir in diesem bereich haben. das ist kein eingriff in die lebensgewohnheiten, sondern, das ist den punkt auf eine wunde legen, und die wir gemeinsam betreten müssen.
mr president, on wednesday this week, parliament will discuss the lisbon treaty, and citizens will watch this house on these institutional questions. but citizens are even more interested to see european institutions tackle the practical question of european policy-making. one of the most important issues is transparency and lobbying. the eu commission was well-advised, three years ago, to launch a so-called transparency initiative, but now we hear that the commission wants to present a register in which no names of lobbyists would appear and no meaningful information on how much money is spent on lobbying would be available. i warn the president of the commission, mr barroso, and i also warn mr kallas not to undermine the credibility you have in europe on the transparency initiative, but to come up with a meaningful register. this is what citizens need, to believe in fair policy-making and decision-making in brussels.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the implementation of the lisbon strategy, albeit imperfect, has enabled the european union to make progress in many areas. there has been job creation, more investment in training, more in research and new technologies. but the challenges remain. the world is moving. new problems are arising. minister turk and commissioners verheugen and almunia have just demonstrated this. although the so-called subprime crisis originated in america, in europe bankers, insurers and fund managers have also succumbed to the same greed, the main engine of the financial world. while some big bosses have unfurled their golden parachutes, the employees and the general public are paying the price. there's been a tightening of credit everywhere. the real economy is taking off, the recession is evident in the united states, growth is slowing in europe, inflation is rising again, oil products are rising again, food is following, fertilizer prices are soaring, and there is a promise of further increases for future crops. the european central bank is limited to the fight against inflation. the workers and trade unions are being urged to exercise restraint, while the loss of purchasing power is a reality almost everywhere. yes, mr verheugen, in all our countries poverty and social exclusion are on the agenda. 68 million europeans live below the official poverty line in their respective countries. 13% of employees work on the basis of unstable contracts and without sustainable social protection. there are 23 million fake freelancers. at the same time, 1% of the population holds more than 15% of the wealth available in europe. the fight against climate change will reinforce this trend towards the impoverishment of many europeans. the polluter pays principle sounds good, but in the end it is always the consumers who pay the bill. in britain, the government is fighting energy poverty. nevertheless, the commission explains to us that the union has not sufficiently liberalised its energy market, as if, in a world where 90% of energy resources depend on sovereign states, consumers could freely choose their suppliers. in the face of mounting problems, the commission, and especially president barroso, have only one answer: nothing must be changed in the lisbon strategy. the integrated guidelines are apparently carved in portuguese marble and do not seem to be adjustable in the eyes of president barroso. on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to give a solemn warning to president barroso. we will not accept this old commission's line on guidelines. the context of the lisbon strategy is changing. the text which guides our action must also be adapted to the new european and international situation. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted 'yes' to the lisbon treaty because there is unfortunately no alternative. but we have to keep our heads. it is not with a 300-page mini-treaty that the union will lose the confidence of its citizens. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. this new treaty is a joke. a new founding treaty must be drawn up quickly and ratified by the peoples of europe in a single referendum. in all countries where the voters say 'no', the country would be free to leave the union or else it would have to submit to the common rules. this is the price to be paid for a truly integrated european union with a more united policy.
in writing. if there were a competition for the best doctoral thesis on the lisbon treaty, the text of the report of the committee on constitutional affairs would deserve to win the first prize summa cum laude. the resolution is an excellent analysis and criticism of the content of this perfectly illegible treaty. all those who feared the emergence of some centralized and all-powerful "super-state" should be more than reassured. there is not a single substantial advance in relation to the content of the constitutional treaty, but many abandonments and setbacks. the co-rapporteurs point to a lack of vision and ambition on the part of national leaders in european policy, and even a lack of confidence in the union and its institutions. the euro-sceptics should welcome the concessions made: postponement of the entry into force, maintenance of unanimity in 72 cases, including taxation and the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, derogations, opt-in, opt-out a la carte, especially for the united kingdom, and the possibility of "voluntary withdrawal" from the union. those who deplore the 'painful concessions' should take comfort in the fact that the european parliament's role as co-legislator will be strengthened and its budgetary powers will be shared equally with the council, and that the principle of double majority voting will facilitate decision-making in the council.
in writing. i have rarely voted for a resolution with such pleasure, because it clearly demonstrates that women and the elderly have a key role to play in facing the challenges of our demographic future. women are expected to be willing to have more children and to work longer hours. then we have to create the environment that motivates them. women cannot be expected to put themselves in harm's way, to expose themselves to poverty, with every child they bring into the world. the more children they have, the more discrimination they face in terms of social security, especially if they devote themselves entirely to the family, the less they earn and the smaller their pensions. however, good resolutions are of no use if the political courage to implement them is lacking. unfortunately, this was the case with the 1995 report on the distribution of pension rights in the event of divorce and the report on the situation of spouses working in smes, to remedy the many discriminations to which women are still subject and the pathetic role of too many men in matters of fatherhood.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to draw attention to the technological modernization which is essential to prevent civil aviation from collapsing. my plea is to move the cesar project forward to promote technological innovation in aviation and to stop allowing civil aviation to be held hostage by forces on the ground. so here are my questions: what progress has been made in the member states on the transfer of rights? would that not bring us many advantages in terms of passenger safety, environmental protection and aviation as a whole?
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr paasilinna and the commissioner, and i would like to point out what was not mentioned in the debate, namely that without the academic community and without its agreement we would not be where we are today. if the universities had blocked the creation of this new institute, which for the first time brings together industry, the private sector, research and academic institutions, this institute would not have been created. since our president has launched the creation of this institute with a little hesitation, without providing an appropriate budget, and since the commissioner for research did not want this institute, the honour of this creation belongs to you, mr figel, because you, as the commissioner responsible for education, have worked to reassure all those who were concerned about the award of diplomas and their own competences. i hope that this institute will be a great success and that you will find the rare bird you are looking for, because you are looking for people on the governing board who have experience in several fields - academic and industrial - who are not involved in any of them and who, moreover, are young. i wish you the best of luck finding them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the milk quotas are what separates the spirits. this was also the case in our committee on agriculture, which, however, managed to reach a compromise which was unanimously adopted. if the european parliament wants to send a signal to the commission and the council of ministers, it must also know that the farmers and their representatives are still divided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these companies want to exploit the growth opportunities by better exploiting their production potential, because the sales opportunities in the eu and on the world market are very attractive due to the constantly growing demand. the others fear that the more reasonable production prices, which have only recently been introduced, will be affected if more milk is produced. the committee on agriculture has also proposed a european balance. does this not mean that we are already out of the national milk quota system, with a shortfall of 3 million tonnes across the eu? would not the objective also be achieved by reducing the super-tax and increasing the fat quotas? what dairy farmer has the courage to play poker in countries where, as in luxembourg, the 2006-07 super levy is due again by exceeding quotas? i can support the compromise because it includes a voluntary increase of 2% in milk quotas for the 2008-2009 milk year. i particularly like the call in our report for a restructuring programme for the milk fund. i think it is extremely important that an analysis of the economic, social and environmental impact of the increase in milk quotas be called for in the short term, as well as a report on consumer behaviour, with a specific request to take account of the specific circumstances of milk production in disadvantaged regions, such as luxembourg, with difficult production conditions. the money allocated to the dairy sector must be retained. it must also be made clear that the higher food prices are only marginally due to the finally more reasonable producer prices. once again, the middlemen and the dominant food chains are blessed.
madam president, as the rapporteur for the renewables directive on which we are about to vote in this parliament, i really welcome mr tabajdi’s report. i also broadly agree that biogas is one of the best ways of processing biomass in europe. in my report i will try to highlight the potential of biogas. it is a storable form of energy, so is complementary to other intermittent sources of renewables. i will also push to reduce red tape. i think we have a real problem in europe concerning authorisation, especially for energy production which is not dangerous, and biogas is not dangerous. i would just like to mention one other issue. at the moment we are also discussing the internal market gas directive. we also need to make it easier for biogas to have access to the gas network. any of you who are interested in this should look at the amendments which i have tabled on the gas directive.
member of the commission. - madam president, last year was a year of crucial decisions on climate change and energy policy. the european union is determined, it is committed to tackling climate change and to responding to the challenge of ensuring secure, sustainable and competitive energy. the european council of march 2007, one year ago, set precise and binding targets with an ambitious approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing renewable energy in our energy consumption. the commission, as you know, has put forward specific proposals in these areas. all these aspirations require a constant and high-quality, detailed monitoring of the evolution of our energy situation, since energy consumption is responsible for more than 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions. the member states must also monitor their energy dependence closely, particularly with regard to natural gas and oil. the proposal for a regulation on energy statistics is part of the energy package adopted by the commission last year. the collection of statistical data on energy has traditionally been based on voluntary agreements with member states and has been for many years. however, the commission, parliament and the council agree that, at present and in the future, this statistical activity is too important to be left to voluntary agreements alone. in addition, the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets has brought with it an increase in the number of stakeholders, with the logical consequence that data collection in this area is now much more complex, making a legal basis for this important work necessary. this proposal for a regulation is in response to a request from the european parliament to the commission to undertake a legal commitment to provide regular and timely european union-wide energy data to european citizens. moreover, energy statistics are a very dynamic field and the proposal for a regulation reflects the european parliament's wish that statistics on energy efficiency and renewable energy continue to evolve. all this is a reflection of the constructive character which has dominated the debates between our institutions until we reached the final version of the proposal for a regulation which we are beginning to discuss here in parliament today. so let me conclude this presentation by thanking the people involved in this process and, in particular, the rapporteur of the european parliament for his support in the development of this legal basis which will make it possible to have transparent energy data in the european union in the future.
the rapporteur. - madam president, energy is back on the political agenda. commissioner, when you started your job in brussels, the price of oil was $25 a barrel. today it is $105 and so, more than ever, to face the energy challenge - be it climate change, the oil shortage, all our geopolitical dependence which is the basis of this situation, but also our economic vulnerability to the volatility of oil prices, not to mention gas prices - i believe that it is more urgent than ever to put in place a european energy policy. but to develop a good european energy policy, we need a good database. i think that what we are voting on tonight is actually the creation of a good basis, because statistics are going to be compulsory - that is a very important point - but also because parliament has, i think, really been successful. it's a success because the statistics that, until now, were mostly very detailed fossil energy statistics on coal, on oil, on gas, we're going to adapt them to the 21st century. and the energy of the 21st century will be directed towards renewable energy. by 2020, renewables will be the largest source of energy in europe, with 20%. so we have to adapt these statistics, and we're going to adapt them to the demand for energy. it is quite astonishing to see how poor the national and, therefore, european statistics are, especially as regards buildings, consumption of household and office appliances, but also as regards transport. and then we also gained something important, i think, which is transparency in the nuclear chain. in fact, the new regulation will force europe to be much more precise also on the upstream part of the nuclear chain in order to put an end to a kafkaesque situation. we were in a situation where we mattered. europe imports 98% of its uranium, and in the statistics, in the statistical directories of europe, nuclear energy appears as a native energy, because the statistics have not been adapted. so we've made some progress on that. another success is that the statistics will be published five months earlier. so we have won a fierce battle, especially against the council. in addition, there is a collateral gain, namely that member states and, in particular, germany, which has been practically the most difficult to convince , will be forced to invest more in statistics. so i want to thank all the statisticians in europe who, over the last ten years, with very limited resources, have had to do and continue to do statistics. today they will be put in a more favourable position because the finance ministers will now be obliged to take energy statistics much more seriously. so this victory of parliament is a collective victory. i thank catherine trautmann, i thank fiona hall, i thank mrs korhola for the work they have done. i also thank the staff of parliament, mrs cordero of the portuguese presidency, who really helped us to get an agreement, and finally the eurostat officials who had to put up with me, sometimes for afternoons and afternoons, with my questions and with the answers. so, thank you to them as well.
rapporteur. − madam president, i have just a few remarks to make. with regard to peat – and unfortunately ms korhola has already left – it is very clear from our definition that peat is classified under fossil energy. we have taken up the ipcc definition of peat, which makes it very clear that peat is not a renewable. so in that respect some finnish politicians and finnish lobbyists should stop dreaming, read the directive and stick to the actual text. the idea of having weekly petrol stock measurements in europe is one issue which i was sorry not to be able to carry through. our oil price in europe is defined by the us department of energy’s weekly bulletin. because europe has no independent statistics on oil, our prices are de facto defined by the scarcity in the us market and we are not able to show the market that the european market is often much less tight than the us market. because we were not able to obtain it here, mr commissioner, perhaps the commission could, in the ongoing discussions on this at the iea, take an initiative at least in looking at what we could potentially gain in europe by having weekly oil statistics in europe. some experts tell me that we could also reduce the oil price just with this measure. we now have to get to work, as it is important that the commission is coordinated. the commission has set up an energy market observatory in dg tren, so it is important that eurostat and this new observatory work closely together. finally, i would like to wish the eurostat civil service and to civil servants in the member states considerable energy and courage, as they will now have to meet often in comitology and to transform this into real statistics. thank you very much again, all of you, for your kind words. i may even be able to offer you a glass of champagne at the end of this long evening!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the real world has just caught up with the european union. at the summit in the spring of 2007, the 27 were still able to dream of an ideal world. europe had returned to growth; unemployment was falling; employment was rising; government deficits were falling; the european council agreed on visionary objectives for the fight against climate change; the european union is a major player in the world economy. but in the middle of august, the subprime crisis broke out, and it continues to wreak havoc. after banks and insurance companies, hedge funds are in turmoil. central banks, ignoring the moral hazard, have become the firemen of speculators. at present, the major central banks have had to start injecting billions into the financial circuits again to "face liquidity pressures", as they say modestly in high finance. the real economy pays the bill. the general tightening of credit has caused an economic slowdown. the recession is coming. the ecb is urging employees to exercise restraint, while their purchasing power is continually being squeezed by rising energy and food prices. on the other hand, the failed geniuses of finance and industry are given excessive credit. the dollar is at its lowest, the barrel of crude oil is at its highest. growth forecasts are regularly revised downwards. despite the changing context, president barroso is sticking to the existing integrated guidelines, seemingly etched in portuguese marble. the bali summit was not in any way in line with the noble objectives proposed by the europeans. neither the americans, nor the japanese, nor the canadians, nor even the australians - new signatories to kyoto - wanted binding targets. chinese, indians, brazilians and other russians, too. the roadmap to the 2009 copenhagen climate summit is very thin. however, the commission does not want to adjust the decisions of the 2007 summit to the real problems that are emerging. yet within the commission, reasonable voices are being raised. president barroso denounced the illusions of a europe without industry. vice-president verheugen insisted that clear and flexible decisions be taken which would not contribute to the deindustrialisation of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. since their customers are captive, they'll simply pass on the extra cost. for industries such as steel and aluminium and many other energy-intensive industries operating in a global market, the additional cost will not be reflected in prices but will affect the only remaining adjustment variable, employment. such an option would quickly lead to relocations to countries where social and climate rules are less strict than in europe. the global climate gain would obviously be zero, while the social cost for europe would become unbearable. the 2007 summit took courageous decisions, but not in line with the realities of the 27 countries. the achievement of the biofuel target would, in itself, do more harm than good to the environment and would certainly harm consumers. the next summit will have to adjust these decisions to the new global economic realities and define an environmental policy that is no longer under the illusion that the european union can carry the burden of combating climate change alone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the socialist group is right, of course, when it says that the distribution of wealth in europe has not been going well in recent years. and of course, my colleague robert goebbels is right when he says that we must take a different approach to speculation and the destruction of billions. but i warn against playing the social question against the ecological question, as the social democrats and others in this parliament are now trying again. we are faced these days with the fact that we have a lobby, the lobby of the steel bosses, the aluminum bosses and the bosses of the chemical industry. and what do these men want? it's usually men! these men want to undermine the polluter principle. it is not possible that the industries which pollute the most are now exempt from the pollution tax - and the auctioning of co2 residues is nothing else. what would happen then? it is not the case that we are not going to be able to modernise the steel, aluminium and chemical industries internationally. so we need the following model. first, the auctioning of the entire stock. secondly, these funds must be earmarked so that, as in denmark in the early 1990s, money from a carbon tax on industry is reinvested in the modernisation of the steel industry and other energy-intensive businesses in europe. thirdly - and i think we must work with the french presidency on this - we need, of course, a punitive tax on environmental dumping outside the internal market on other continents. but it is a pity that every steelworks outside europe has lower environmental and energy standards than the steelworks that are in europe today. that is not true, and that is why such a penalty duty can only be set up transparently. this is the future, when social and ecology come together.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council mentioned investment funds for real estate and linked this to financial policies. the president of the commission did not mention this specific problem of housing. i would like to ask the commission, since it intends to propose 2010 as the year of poverty, whether it intends to address the housing problem from the point of view of investment projects and financial policies, in particular private real estate funds coming to european markets.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs klass on her report on the situation of women in rural areas and, having been the author of a report adopted in the 1990s on the status of assisting spouses, particularly in agriculture, i regret, as does mrs klass, that the european commission has not followed up this report, which was also mentioned in a 2003 resolution in which we called for a review of the 1986 directive on equal treatment for men and women in selfemployment, including agricultural activity. the majority of these millions of invisible workers, the caring spouses, in family farms, in handicrafts, in commerce, in agriculture, are women. we had already advocated, more than ten years ago, a european framework statute to ensure, among other things, social rights and independent pension rights for these spouses of farm workers. the commission's inaction in this area, despite the many requests of this european parliament, is unacceptable! i therefore hope that the commission will finally take seriously our request to table an amendment to the directive before the end of this year. mr president, i would like to say again, on a personal note, that i do not agree with what my english colleague has said. i would like to see a committee on women's rights and gender equality not be necessary, but if some men - and they are the majority - had a little more understanding of the situation of women and equal treatment and opportunities, then we would not need such a committee.
in writing. − to prevent high-quality food from becoming scarce and very expensive in europe, many people today need to understand that we need to maintain a competitive, sustainable, multifunctional and comprehensive agriculture in the eu, which is also internationally competitive. we still need the cap, and it must ensure the reliability, planning certainty and future stability of agriculture. the compromise we are voting on today is a commendable piece of work by our rapporteur, mr lutz goepel. but this compromise cannot fully satisfy me either, particularly because the proposed modulation of over eur 10 000, even if it is only 1%, is difficult to understand for the farmers in my country. the fact that these funds are to be returned to the region where they are produced is not a great comfort to the individual farmer. imagine if we were to cut workers' wages, for example in the public sector. the proposals concerning the basic safety net and the crisis management system are to be welcomed. it must also be clear that article 69 is not a panacea, even if it is justifiable to make greater use of these possibilities to finance measures such as those for young farmers, afforestation and early harvesting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, if mrs kauppi is not here, she will give me two minutes because she is chairing an important debate dinner. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by our liberal colleague olle schmidt is about a new confrontation between us and the european commission, which has proposed an unjustified increase in indirect taxes. this proposal comes from a commissioner who, in my opinion, seems to have lost all sense of economic reality. mr kovács has proposed that we should increase the minimum rates on unleaded petrol and diesel considerably. given the record inflation situation - which is of particular concern to the european central bank - and the economic slowdown we are currently experiencing, it seems to me that the time is particularly ill-chosen to raise the excise rates on diesel and fuel oil. i personally would have liked to have rejected this ill-conceived proposal from the european commission, but given the majority situation in this parliament, i could not do so. i support the compromise reached by the main political groups in this parliament because i believe it constitutes a certain damage limitation. the progressive increase in the minimum rates for diesel to eur 359 per 1 000 litres until 2015 and the freezing of the minimum rates on unleaded petrol by the same amount, as proposed in this compromise, are well below the levels proposed by the commission; the commission therefore concluded that the aid was compatible with the internal market. the rapporteur, in his draft report, went even further than this proposal and wanted minimum rates of 400 euros. let me welcome the compromise of our rapporteur, who revised down his rates during the discussions on his report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the real strength of this report is, in my view, amendment no 19. in this amendment we ask the member states which currently have exorbitant rates - above eur 400 for 1 000 litres of diesel and eur 500 for 1 000 litres of unleaded petrol - not to increase these rates again until 2015. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only way, mr president, of achieving harmonization of excise duty rates in europe is to introduce both minimum and maximum rates. it is absolutely pointless to increase the minimum rates continuously without curbing the enthusiasm of those member states which have very high rates. and if i may, mr president, i would like to make a point of order. i would like to ask the commissioner, who has told us that we support his proposal, if he is in another world, because in fact we do not support his proposal.
mr president, i just wanted to speak briefly to show that the members who come from luxembourg are not all cheap oil junkies. i think mr. belet has put things in their place. the problem here is to find a compromise with the policies on the problems we know about oil resources and climate change, as well as the balance between countries and regions. i just wanted to inform you that this tuesday there was a debate in the chamber of deputies in luxembourg on climate change. there was a debate on the phenomenon of tourism at the pump. a large majority of national parliamentarians in luxembourg, including members of mrs lulling's party, agree that this phenomenon must be stopped, at least in some respects. so i just wanted to say that luxembourg, taken as a whole, has a different position from that of mrs lulling, who represents a minority - and a very small minority - on this issue.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the comments and views expressed during the debate. obtaining a positive opinion from parliament on the commission’s proposal for special tax arrangements for commercial diesel is very important. however, we have taken note that your report is less ambitious compared to the commission proposal, in particular by not endorsing the revalorisation of the overall minimum tax levels applicable to diesel and unleaded petrol. i have not lost sight of economic rationale. on the contrary: economic rationale speaks against the extra millions of kilometres and also the extra tons of co2 and other greenhouse gases which are the result of fuel tourism. i have to take into consideration – and we all have to take into consideration – the growing threat of what climate change and global warming mean for mankind. this threat is even much more alarming than inflation. as far as the proposed increase of excise duty is concerned, it will not generate inflation. it will just keep up with the expected inflation of 2.2% a year until 2017. while the commission can accept amendment 1 in part and amendments 7 and 27 in principle, we have to formally reject the other amendments. the commission will not formally amend this proposal. we will, however, endeavour to take the amendments suggested by parliament into consideration as much as possible during deliberations in the council. a positive opinion from parliament will be an important signal of the increasing awareness of the growing negative impact on the environment of transport, which we have to address through fuel taxation.
mr president, i ask you to speak on a personal matter. mr. turmes called me a junkie. i think it's an insult to me, and i'd like him to take it down. i can say and make it clear that my party and my government fully support the compromise proposed by our rapporteur, to which i have made a great contribution. mr turmes seems to forget that diesel fuel is currently cheaper in belgium than in luxembourg and that if there is pump-driven tourism, it is not to luxembourg but to belgium that it is currently heading.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. martin luther king had a dream: his dream was the dream of a society where color did not lead to discrimination, and that dream revolutionized america and the world. europe today has a dream, or rather a vision: the vision of developing the energy of the future, not only in europe but beyond europe, the vision that renewable energy sources will play a major role in the middle of this century, helping to avoid conflicts over the last oil and gas resources, limiting climate change and ensuring that billions of people in the world have access to energy that they cannot have today. i think that the commission - represented today by its environmental conscience, mr dimas - can be proud of this geeref, this global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund. we expect that in four or five years this fund will be worth 500 million euros, making it the largest fund for investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have concrete commitments from germany and also from norway. what is the purpose of this fund? financial analysts who study in detail which renewable energy and energy efficiency projects are invested in have found that it is difficult to find risk capital for investments below eur 10 million and the fund being set up is specifically targeted at these medium-sized projects in the range of eur 10 million and below. it will be a fund of funds, i.e. this investment fund will not invest directly in wind farms in morocco or solar farms in china, but it will take financial interests in investment funds in south africa, central africa, china, russia or south america. the public will be the political decision-maker. the reason why this fund is attractive to private investors is that the public sector covers the risk of investments by means of the fact that the returns from these investments - i.e. when these investments make money - are paid first to the private sector and only in a second phase to the public sector, thus creating a great deal of security for private investors. we have raised four or five points as members of parliament in connection with this fund. the first also includes a specific question to commissioner dimas. at a time when we are having a very controversial debate on biofuels, we as members of parliament felt that we must apply very strict criteria if this fund is to invest in biofuels or biomass projects. not only would the environmental record be poor, but it would also be a problem for the image of the fund if it were to be discredited by such investments. perhaps again, mr dimas: can you give us a guarantee that the commission will do its best to apply the strict criteria required? the second thing that was important to us as parliamentarians - and i think that came very strongly from the development policy angle - is that we want this fund to make a significant contribution to reducing energy poverty. so we want to leverage the expertise of microfinance institutions like grameen bank and others that are already doing projects for the poorest of the poor, like solar panels or photovoltaic systems. we must also include these microfinance institutions. secondly, commissioner, is the commission prepared to ensure that 20 to 25% of this fund is actually used for such small projects through microfinance, as it is the largest donor of public funds? thirdly, we were a little afraid that if it became easy to invest in china, all the funds from the fund would go there, but we want a good geographical distribution, and also here we need the political commitment of the commission that funds should be made available in particular to the countries of africa, the caribbean and south america. we need a strict monitoring and evaluation of parliament and regular reports to this parliament, to our committee on budgets and to our committee on budgetary control, because we may want to increase this fund in a couple of years. then, of course, we need the confidence of this house in this fund. so much for my first statement. i look forward to the debate with my colleagues. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − mr president, of course geothermal energy is covered. we are very much interested in geothermal energy, as well as in other renewable sources of energy. concerning poland and the allocation of allowances: for the first trading period, they had plenty, far more than were necessary for the needs of energy and industry, and this over-allocation caused the problem with the allowances price. for the second trading period we consider that the allowances given to poland are again quite enough to cover the needs of polish industry. for the third trading period there is a new system, which will be based on what industry or the energy plants require to cover their needs, involving auctioning to the extent that we shall agree. concerning deforestation, of course it is a great issue and linked both to biodiversity and climate change – equally important. tackling deforestation contributes both to halting of the loss of biodiversity and fighting climate change, so it is very important. however, deforestation projects have a peculiarity: they are very difficult. nevertheless, it is one of the first priorities that we have to tackle, not only by means of this fund but by various other measures, especially by agreeing what incentives we should link with the various approaches to tackling deforestation, for example reducing the rate of deforestation and maintaining forests or any other approach that is being promoted by various countries. we are working on this, especially with the world bank, and there will be some pilot projects. so, there are various sources of financing for various purposes. i would like first of all to express my appreciation for the very good and positive contributions and i can assure you that your suggestions and comments will be taken into account in our work. they are very useful and they touch on various important issues. i am not going to answer now, for example, about the importance of cdm projects for sub-saharan africa. i would just remind you that in 2006 in nairobi we had the initiative by kofi annan, the then secretary-general of the united nations, for promoting cdm projects in sub-saharan africa. we, like the united nations, are committed to carrying out more projects there and not concentrating only on projects in china and india. so your comment is very important, but of course the relation between this fund and cdms could be seen and could be of importance. i have three additional comments to make. first, you call for a special emphasis on serving the needs of sub-saharan and acp countries. of course we are concerned that projects in major countries like china and russia will absorb all or too high a percentage of the available resources. this has happened with cdms, by the way, and so your comment is right. the geeref will engage in existing investment opportunities but we agree that special emphasis is needed on serving the needs of acp countries. we will also ensure that any subfund which only covers one country will not be allowed to absorb all or most of the available resources. the geeref needs to be spread to different parts of the world, also with a view to spreading the investment risk, and mr turmes’s suggestion about the percentage is very correct. second, let me come back to the poverty dimension, which is obviously fundamental. as you mentioned today, some 1.6 billion people in the poorer countries of the world still have no regular access to reliable energy services. i believe that with the geeref we have an opportunity to contribute to access to clean and affordable energy, a necessary prerequisite for reducing global poverty and promoting sustainable development. third and finally, you welcome the fund’s focus on leveraging private investments – although you mentioned that the funds are not enough; i think that funds are never enough – and you call for more member states to offer additional financial support. of course i fully support and agree with what you suggested, and the commission is working and will continue to work to attract more investors to join. on this aspect, i would also like to ask for your support in promoting the geeref to all relevant actors. the more support we have, the more real actions on the ground we will be able to conduct.
rapporteur. − mr president, this will be a fund potentially of eur 500 million, because it has a leverage factor of 3 to 5 on the private capital. the eur 100 million, eur 120 million or eur 150 million of public money will be able to leverage – at least we hope – another eur 300 million or eur 400 million to make eur 500 million. and we still have governments which can jump on board. if we have good monitoring, then parliament will allow the commission to go up. ms jordan cizelj raised a very important question: how prepared are certain regions of the world for investments? we in parliament have voted an additional eur 5 million from another budget line for institutional capacity building to frame this programme. so we need to build up small and medium-sized enterprises in african countries and in india, which will then develop business models. we have to learn from earlier errors in development policy where we just granted technology without considering that we also have to inform people about this technology. i am saying this in front of the development commissioner and we know that the development dg is helping to raise the institutional capacities of these countries. so what we need to do now – and, commissioner, you are right – is reach out to investors. this friday in luxembourg, which is the second-biggest investment centre in the world, there will be a meeting of bankers. we will present to them a sicav, a vehicle which is based in luxembourg. i hope that the commission will design a good communication strategy. go to the city of london, go to frankfurt, go to paris, go to zurich, because the bankers have to be informed about this vehicle. why is this important at this time? at the moment we are still under pressure from the liechtenstein scandal and the subprime crisis. in several months we have destroyed hundreds of billions of capital. greening finances may be an even more important task for this planet and policymakers than greening industry. this type of vehicle allows capital to go to the right investments. it may not have as high a return as certain speculative investments but it is a mid- and long-term investment and that is probably exactly what certain pension funds and others are looking for. so this fund also has huge opportunities to bring in institutional investors and that is what we should look for. thank you very much for your support for what i call the fan community of a renewable and better world.
in writing. i voted against the schmidt report because the european parliament, instead of supporting the commission's approach, has been playing a game of charades between old and new countries. in any case, it will be the ministers who will decide alone, and unanimously.
madam president, i would like to point out that prevention is the best way to fight cancer and therefore our strict position on the marketing of carcinogens and endocrine disruptors cannot be relaxed. i appeal to all those colleagues who did not take the right position in the first vote on pesticides. they will be able to correct the mistake in the second vote on the placing of pesticides on the market. as regards the keeping of national registers, i would point out to the commissioner that this principle was introduced when the 7th framework programme was voted on two years ago and was not adopted. so, commissioner, you will have a lot of work to do to encourage the member states and to get them to accept this principle. i would like to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you much courage.
member of the commission. − madam president, today we are dealing with the commission proposal to support the eurostars joint programme, and i thank you for giving me a few minutes to explain the key features and the importance of this initiative. the eurostars joint programme aims to support research and development performing smes. these smes are able to bring new products and services onto the market thanks to their own research and development work. they have the ambition and the capacity to grow and to become the ‘stars’ of tomorrow. a group of 29 eureka countries, and now luxembourg, which has just applied to join, have decided to develop the joint programme, specifically designed to support smes undertaking their own research and development activities, in cooperation with their partners. in order to enhance the impact of this initiative, the commission has proposed to the european parliament and the council participating financially in the eurostars joint programme, based on article 169 of the treaty, with an amount of up to eur 100 million. this amount will leverage approximately eur 300 million from the participating countries for the next six years. an essential aspect of this initiative is that the participating countries commit themselves to integrate their national programmes in order to create a joint european programme. in addition, eurostars reinforces the cooperation between the framework programme and eureka. for these reasons, i think that this initiative is a further step towards the realisation of the european research area. i am grateful to the rapporteur, mr rübig, and also to the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for the good cooperation and the improvements they are proposing to the commission proposal. on behalf of the commission, i can inform you that we accept these proposals. i particularly appreciate the fact that you agreed to handle this proposal swiftly, so that we will be able to contribute to the first eurostars call. a rapid adoption by parliament and the council would indeed send a strong signal to the sme community that a continued investment in research and innovation activities is crucial to maintain and enhance their competitiveness. eurostars should be a good example of how member states can cooperate by bringing their national programmes closer together, and of where community funding results in more impact for the programme, for the benefit of the european sme community and, of course, for the benefit of europe as such.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr rübig, on his report and thank him for agreeing to table an oral amendment to include luxembourg in this programme and thus remedy the administrative delays which may have caused this absence. commissioner, we have known since the first evaluation report of the lisbon process at the latest that smes play a vital role in research and innovation. however, their participation is still not up to expectations and the latest investment figures prove this. this specific programme should therefore facilitate the participation of smes and the operation of any excessive bureaucracy. in fact, it is a matter of rectifying and hedging risk and of countering the reluctance of companies to invest in research and innovation, which is perhaps also a european evil in the spirit of enterprise. i congratulate our rapporteur for insisting on adoption at first reading, which should speed up the implementation of this programme, ensure its effectiveness and prove that european legislation does not necessarily have the burdensome characteristics that are often accused of, but that it is able to act effectively and in the interests of the citizen.
mr president, last week i was with the mercosur delegation in argentina. i noticed that none of the political interlocutors we had had any concern about climate change, that they were talking about increasing the area for soya cultivation and deforestation to gain more arable land, and that even our delegation had not properly discussed the subject. so i ask myself: are we in europe pursuing a two-speed policy? should we not coordinate our discourse everywhere, knowing that climate change policy is a policy of redistribution of resources? it is a fundamental policy of justice that must be applied on a global level.
in writing. i would like to underline my support for the rübig report which aims to enable more of our smes to be eligible for support for their r&d projects under the eurostars research and development programme implemented by several member states and associated countries. the aim is also to facilitate the participation of our smes, the real engines of the european economy, in this programme. i also welcome the fact that in the future luxembourg will also participate in the eurostars programme, which will help to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. while i voted in favour of the progress report on croatia's possible accession, i would like to stress that any future accession will not be possible in the near future. the union of 27 must first find its own identity on the basis of the treaty of lisbon. new membership will only be possible after the eu in its present configuration has been consolidated.
in writing. i can only support this report, which recognises the fundamental role of culture in the process of european integration. i support the proposals for a cultural agenda for europe with three major objectives, namely the promotion of cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, the promotion of culture as a vehicle for creativity in the framework of the lisbon strategy and the promotion of culture as an essential element of the eu's external relations. the external dimension of culture in europe deserves to be affirmed and culture should be integrated as a component of the political dialogue with our partner countries and regions, and culture should be systematically integrated into development programmes, in particular with our partners in the acp countries. the idea of creating an eu-acp cultural fund therefore seems to me particularly sensible, as it will encourage the emergence of local industries and markets, and also facilitate the access of acp cultural products to the european market. it is important to recognise the role of local and regional authorities in promoting culture and to involve them more closely in the implementation of the eu's cultural agenda.
mr president, i would like to say to mr davies that he is the one who is 'bringing shame on parliament'. that said, mr president, i shall vote for your discharge for 2006. unfortunately, in the accompanying motion for a resolution there are requests and remarks which either go into the open (paragraph 58) or are inaccurate, such as the paragraphs concerning the voluntary pension fund. despite the repeated efforts of the fund president to provide information and clarifications, falsehoods about the fund's actuarial deficit are persistently repeated here. thanks to exemplary management, the fund is now able to guarantee the rights acquired until 2060. i think a lot of us will be dead by then! as regards the actuarial update (paragraph 71), it exists but will first be presented to the fund's board of directors. let me remind you that parliament has spent 36 000 euros in vain to produce a so-called independent actuarial report. where is he? where is he? what are the conclusions? as far as i know, they are no different from those of the fund's actuaries. as regards paragraphs 72 and 73, a distinction should be made between the wishes of certain members of cocobu and the reality as it arises from the status of the members. to say that neither current members nor other members can continue to contribute to the fund is simply incompatible with rule 27 of the rules of procedure. fortunately, what counts here is not the wishes of some, even if they are the subject of decisions in the framework of resolutions, but the status. the bureau's working group on the statute for members, of which i am a member, has done its work, it has prepared the necessary measures, not in accordance with the wishes expressed in resolutions, but in accordance with article 27 of the statute for members published in the official journal on 7 october 2005.
mr president, i voted for the discharge to our president for 2006, but against the accompanying river resolution, because it contains remarks and requests that either go beyond the open door (paragraph 58) or do not respect the values to which i am committed (paragraph 65). imagine that a majority of this parliament has just voted that members cannot employ their spouses but can very well employ their lover, their mistress, their toy-boy. i don't have either, but i still want to say it's absurd. in my earlier speech i tried to correct the inaccurate statements concerning the members' voluntary pension fund, as did our chairman of the fund throughout the procedure. unfortunately, it was to no avail. paragraph 71 criticises the fact that the fund did not update its actuarial calculations at the end of 2007 before 15 march 2008. apart from the fact that it is absurd to ask in a report on 2006 to present accounts for 2007, i can reassure the authors. the update for 2007 has been made but will first be presented to the board of directors of the fund, which is an asbl under luxembourg law. mr president, may i add that errare humanum is perseverare diabolicum. and since i'm not evil, i voted against it.
mr president, agrofuels are not the main driver of this crisis, but boosting inefficient first-generation agrofuel production at such a moment is not a good policy choice, so 10% mandatory agrofuel is a bad policy choice. we should remind ourselves where it comes from. this was the trade-off between pressure from the automobile industry to move the commission to be less ambitious on car efficiency and to buy or to compensate this less ambitious policy with the higher target on agrofuels. this is perpetuating a myth, which is that, in a world in which millions of chinese and indian young people also dream of having a car, we are suggesting that you can continue to build huge limousines and fuel them with agrofuels. this is factually not possible on a planet which has limited resources, so i urge the commission to reconsider this. be more ambitious on car efficiency. we need to go from a unidimensional agrofuel policy to a holistic policy for energy from biomass, and concentrate biomass where it is most efficient, which is in electricity and heat production. by the way, that is cheaper than using agrofuels which are inefficient.
in writing. the deve commission has produced a very balanced report on china's policy and its effects on africa. i am voting for it with all the more satisfaction because i had a very unfortunate experience with the acp-eu jpa. in my report on the impact of foreign direct investment, i had proposed some critical considerations about chinese investment in africa. the delegates from the acp countries, with the connivance of the socialists, the communists and the greens, succeeded in removing all of them from the report. why did they not want to see that chinese fdi is concentrated on extractive industries and often supports the governments of acp countries in policies which do not tend towards democracy, the rule of law and poverty reduction in these countries. why did they eliminate the fact that chinese fdi invests in certain multinationals flooding african markets with low-quality goods, especially textiles? i am pleased to read in the explanatory statement of the report that china's rush into africa is a plunder of africa's natural resources which undermines sustainable development. we are also concerned about the danger that china could export some of its worst domestic practices to africa ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. i voted for the gomes report because it analyses in great detail the causes and consequences of chinese domination in africa, both economically and politically. china's tremendous economic growth over the past 20 years has created a growing demand for oil and other raw materials. china now imports 30% of its oil from africa. by 2010, it will be 45%. on the other hand, china is investing heavily in infrastructure work in africa. this commitment is made without preconditions, either for human rights or for social and environmental conditions. this situation should be a challenge to europe, which must try to find a strategic partnership with both africa and china to ensure the sustainable development of the african continent.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. - mr president, i have to say something. without transparency, there is no european democracy! and brussels already has a reputation for being the place where corporations are the talk of the town and the leader. this is dangerous for the european project, which is very dear to me personally and to the greens. we are therefore called upon as the european parliament to pour the citizens a clear wine before the next european elections. we have a good report. however, dark forces are at work, and now they want to break out two pieces of the core. the first is that they want to prevent financial transparency. without financial transparency, we can never find out who's really behind the campaigns. i am surprised that the socialist group is against financial transparency and is breaking a key piece of the budget. the second key piece that is being broken out is that there are people in parliament who assume that lawyers, if they're not defending someone in court, but they're pulling the strings in legislation in europe, are not considered lobbyists, i'm quoting from the website of a law firm in brussels. she says because we are not considered lobbyists in this framework now, therefore lobbying by lawyers will be more and more effective and goals are more likely to be achieved with legal support. alber & geiger as a law firm exclusively specialized on lobbying and government relations will be at your side to assist you in reaching your goals within the eu. so the law firms themselves admit that they are lobbyists. this cannot happen. we are undermining our own credibility.
mr president, to dispel some misunderstandings and to correct the populist statements made by some members here and in the press, i should also like to point out, as a quaestor, that the european parliament has had rules governing our relations with lobbyists for twelve years. these rules, which are set out in article 9 (4) of the rules of procedure - perhaps you should read it once! - stipulate that access to the european parliament for lobbyists is controlled, regulated by access badges. to get a badge, lobbyists must fill out an accreditation form accompanied by a certificate of good conduct, a letter signed by the police. the european parliament keeps a register of lobbyists which is published on the european parliament's website. accredited lobbyists must also adhere to a code of conduct. mrs frassoni and others are therefore pushing open doors here. any infringement of this code is punishable by the removal of the access badge and exclusion from the register. as regards the draft single register, i do not think it is appropriate to establish such a register with the commission, since the european parliament and the commission have totally different institutional functions and, for that reason, a different relationship with lobbyists. in the interests of the separation of powers at european level, parliament must at all costs remain solely responsible for its regulations. the commission can copy our good system but it is up to us to have the last word on our regulation. i find the report's approach to this register to be prudent and i agree with it. as regards the disclosure of lobbyist funding, i do not see why accredited lobbyists should provide detailed financial information specifying their source of funding and the allocation of these resources. this would be totally impractical and counterproductive. i also believe that the scale of the activity does not always translate into financial means. the good reputation of an organisation and the level of expertise are also important. i fully agree with the description of lobbying as set out in recital d of the report. i would like to pay tribute to our former colleague, alexander stubb, with whom i worked a lot on this issue and i expressly distance myself from the accusations thrown in the air by the greens who spoke in this debate.
in writing. i abstained on the stubb report on lobbying because i think some colleagues are overemphasizing an activity as old as humanity, namely the attempt to influence the decision-maker (s). it is only natural that citizens should organise themselves to defend their interests. trade unions, employers' associations and ngos have the right to defend their interests before any legislator. the legislator has a duty to listen before he decides. but the legislator must remain independent, hence the importance of declaring the financial interests of members. the main shortcoming of the report is that it does not mention the financing of certain associations from the eu budget. this is an area where transparency should also come into play.
in writing. i voted in favour of the stubb report on the development of the framework governing the activities of interest representatives (lobbyists) in the eu institutions. it gives a clearer definition of the activities of the estimated 15,000 lobbyists. i therefore support the initiative to create a common register where lobbyists can register once to gain access to the european parliament, the commission and the council. in addition, all lobbyists will be required to adhere to a code of good conduct. it is essential that meps and european officials can identify the organisations represented by interest groups and that they respect the principles of honesty and good conduct.
mr president, for more than two years now, a post of academic at the parliament's representation in luxembourg has been vacant. i'd like to know what the result of the publication of the position is, why there was a candidate who did not have all the pieces in his file, what are these pieces? why was there no information about this? and i'd like to know what the administration's intentions are regarding the replacement of this long-vacant position?
mr president, commissioner, i think we have the same aim, we want to achieve parity, but the way to achieve it is not unanimous. commissioner, your statistics are well done, they show that the road is long and arduous and you have done well in introducing quotas for appointments to committees because, without a voluntary policy, we will not be able to find the woman, because, to find her, we must first have the will to look for her. so the higher you go, the more reluctant you are to appoint women, and what's totally inappropriate and illogical is that in the education sector, women are overwhelmingly in the majority, but in the academic world, they are absent. so why is that? i think we should run a test. the member states should be invited and perhaps the commissioner could put some pressure on the member states to establish some benchmarking to shed light on the situation in their universities. often, in the selection of teachers, we do not have the same criteria. women are always asked, "what are you going to do to take care of your children?" we never ask men that question, and also in this debate, we all talk about our child-bearing burdens. would this also be done if there were men involved? why don't we just reverse the problem, and, by the way, it's not a problem. having a family is a great joy, it's a wealth, also for men, and why wouldn't we change the words? i think that the appointment of professors should be reviewed, the way in which they are appointed and the questions they are asked, and in order to make progress in the field of new technologies, the commission should take targeted action. as far as the criteria of excellence are concerned, i do not think we can make any discounts.
in writing. i support the report by mr florenz on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change as it analyses the impacts and effects of climate change, provided that they are supported by scientific evidence. the cost of climate change could reach between 5 and 20% of gdp by 2050 unless ambitious action is taken. although all member states have made considerable progress so far, we will have to be more ambitious in reducing emissions. on the other hand, we must remain vigilant about the harmful effects that the promotion of biofuels may have on the international food supply, as well as on deforestation.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report on the 2007 progress report on turkey. i must express my horror at what i read in a german newspaper, die welt, that turkey, which likes to be portrayed as a country of moderate islam, has passed a law prohibiting the purchase and open pouring of wine in a glass. wine is a european cultural good that can be legally produced in the majority of member states and sold and consumed in all eu member states. such a law is incompatible with full membership of the eu. all legally produced products, including wine, are goods whose free movement within the internal market must be guaranteed. such a ban also violates eu anti-discrimination rules. a country that interferes with the free movement of legally produced goods from other member states cannot become a full member of the eu. prime minister erdogan has promised that 2008 will be the year of reforms to make turkey a modern democracy based on a secular state and a pluralistic society. given the turkish ban on buying and drinking wine in a glass, i have to ask: words, idle words?
in writing. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is very balanced: on the one hand it welcomes the legislative initiatives taken by the turkish authorities to continue the reform process, but it also urges turkey to accelerate the pace of reforms in order to guarantee respect for the principles of the rule of law. the kurdish question, including its cultural and economic aspects, must be resolved. equal opportunities for women will also have to be enshrined in the draft new turkish constitution. the turkish government is also called upon to respect the pluralism and diversity of religions in a secular and democratic turkey. only by fully adhering to the principles and values of the european union can accession negotiations be resumed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a new animal health strategy for the eu because i am clearly in favour of sustainable agriculture and can only support the policy initiatives and practices to promote it. the health and welfare of beef cattle are essential to ensure public health through the production of healthy food. animal health is closely linked to human health in view of the risk of direct or indirect transmission of certain animal diseases to humans. the very high concentrations of animals in intensive farming systems increase the risk of disease spread and hamper disease control. i recognize the need to promote measures to ensure biological safety on farms, but care must be taken not to overburden the criteria of eco-conditionality. however, i regret that the commission's communication does not give greater weight to veterinary experts, who in my view are best placed to implement an effective strategy in the fight to protect animal health.
mr president, i would ask commissioner ferrero-waldner not to see this barcelona process as a mere economic process. when europe needs energy, it turns to africa for the benefit of sunshine and sand. isn't that a little bit? should we not start this process by doing some work on culture? we are dealing with countries that are very diverse, proud countries, countries that have a great history and culture. should not these efforts at social cohesion be made through a thorough cultural work? i have not read in any of the documents any reference to the anna lindt foundation, which has been working for some years on this cooperation. i would very much like to see the project of a euro-arab university also advanced.
mr president, i voted for this report because if there is no acceptable future for young farmers, there will be no future for european agriculture. for many reasons, however, such as food security, the supply of quality products, the environment and the preservation of our beautiful mountain and vineyard landscapes, positive action is needed to encourage young people to work in agriculture, to take over the family farm. but i would like to point out with satisfaction that, on my initiative, the european parliament is now drawing particular attention to the importance of providing information on the status of the partners helping farmers in an amendment to the committee on agriculture. i would like to remind you that in 1997 - more than ten years ago - this parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of my report on the status of assistant spouses in agriculture. in our resolution we insisted above all on the compulsory affiliation of all spouses who work in agriculture to a pension insurance scheme. the commission did not immediately follow up our resolution. in my country we have this system: compulsory insurance. we should follow that example. we need a framework directive to do that.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr veraldi's report because i can only support initiatives to ensure the future of sustainable, competitive and productive agriculture in the eu. encouraging and facilitating young people's access to the agri-food sector is essential to promote generational renewal and to ensure the dynamism of the sector. to enable young farmers to meet the many challenges and expectations of producing quality food, safeguarding food security, protecting the environment, safeguarding biodiversity and maintaining the landscape, it is essential to review the amount of the set-up premium, which has remained unchanged for years. in addition, it is important to avoid linking the premium to a farm plan, so as not to restrict the innovative spirit of young farmers. however, it should also be noted that middle-aged farmers face the same challenges. we must avoid putting them at a disadvantage and damaging their existing operating systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the casa report on slovakia's adoption of the single currency on 1 january 2009, in which the european parliament endorses the positive recommendations of the commission, the ecb and the council. slovakia has made enormous efforts to meet the maastricht and convergence criteria. the development of the slovak economy since the fall of its communist regime is quite remarkable and slovakia's accession to the single currency is a well-deserved reward for this country which has implemented a rigorous reform agenda. the european parliament also expressed its concern about the sustainability of the inflation rate in slovakia over the long and medium term, as identified in the ecb's latest convergence report. however, we believe that the slovak government will be able to take the necessary measures to avoid an inflationary escalation after joining the euro area. it is clear that the euro area inflation projections for 2009 are well above the ecb's 2% target. it would therefore be unjustified to punish slovakia for its difficulties in meeting criteria that euro area members will not be able to meet in 2009.
madam president, this market is not a market, but a hold-up: one costing eu consumers something like eur 70 billion a year in undue windfall profits going to 10 or 12 big energy oligopolies in europe. i can fully understand that these companies want to keep this going. how do they keep those undue windfall profits? first, you prevent ownership unbundling. i am sorry, but france and germany are not small peripheral eu member states. if they do not unbundle, we will never have a really integrated grid and we will never solve the conflict between producing electricity, trading it and facilitating competition through your grid. the second issue – and that is what is happening now – is that they are trying to escape regulation both from the regulatory authorities and from the cartel authorities. therefore they want to create regional markets. however, if we do not have a strong eu agency, these regional markets will be a regulatory no-man’s-land: e.on, rwe and edf are too big for a regional market – france, germany and the benelux countries. therefore, without a strong eu agency and a better interface between regulatory agencies and cartel authorities, this eur 70 billion hold-up will continue.
in writing. i voted against the return directive. i was prepared to support such a directive, which, far from being perfect, would provide useful guidance for those eu states that have no immigration legislation, or even for those states that have too repressive legislation. as a majority of the right and the liberal groups rejected the 10 socialist amendments, including those on better protection for minors, i finally voted against with the majority of my political group. i remain convinced that europe, even if it cannot accept all the misery in the world, must remain open to immigration in a positive way. illegal immigration, with its tragedy and misery, but also with the crime associated with these illegal routes, must be combated. the illegal aliens must be able to be expelled, but only in accordance with procedures worthy of a state governed by the rule of law. i was prepared to support such a directive, which, far from being perfect, would provide useful guidance for the nine states of the european union that have no immigration legislation, or even for those states that have too repressive legislation.
in writing. human rights are not negotiable: deprivation of liberty as provided for in this act is a serious offence, even if it is limited in time. why is there no talk of welcoming people who arrive on european territory and of reception facilities instead of detention facilities? we have known for decades that smugglers have a criminal interest in human trafficking and that often there are accomplices to take in the illegal, poorly paid and poorly housed labour force. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to chemical agents. as for voluntary return policies, their accompaniment by a targeted cooperation policy would be a better signal than the imprisonment of innocent people. we do not own the earth, we do not have the right to consider ourselves the masters of the continent and even the states of law that we are do not have the right to violate the rights of the integrity of the person.
in writing. - i voted for the weber report because i believe that the european union can only combat and prevent illegal immigration by means of strict but fair common rules. this return directive is a successful entry into a common european immigration policy. europe can only open up to legal immigration if illegal immigration can be clearly defined and effectively combated by common rules. the humanitarian concerns of the deportation procedure have also been taken into account in my view, in particular by introducing a maximum detention period of six months. this is a major step forward, given that nine member states, including luxembourg, have no ceilings. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the measures taken by the member states in the field of asylum and immigration. the european court of justice may also be involved. the directive also guarantees free legal aid to those concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i would also like to clarify that a maximum detention of 18 months, which can be imposed by a 12-month extension of the 6-month detention period, can only be carried out in extreme exceptional cases. this period of detention is only provided for in the event of a danger to public security or of an acute risk of absconding.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the expulsion of illegal immigrants from third countries aims to provide the european union with a common immigration policy by establishing criteria for the maximum period of detention, encouraging voluntary return and providing for a ban on returning to the european union for those who are expelled. this text is a compromise text and, like any compromise, it can be improved. the maximum period of detention of 6 months, which can be extended by 12 months, is thus considerably longer than the maximum period of detention in my country, luxembourg (3 months). the text does, however, provide for certain guarantees for families and children, and it specifies the conditions for non-refoulement to the country of origin. as this is a matter which falls within the scope of codecision, parliament is on an equal footing with the council of ministers and a negative vote would cause detrimental delays in this highly sensitive matter. that is why, despite certain reservations, i voted in favour of adopting the proposal for a directive.
in writing. i voted against the morgan report and the energy package because i think we are going the wrong way. the proposed agency will be another bureaucratic organ. a network of national regulators with wider powers would be more effective in guaranteeing access to the networks for small producers. unbundling has become a kind of magic potion, whereas the experience of countries which practice decoupling does not in any way support this liberal measure. the energy market is a global market. it is not the biogas cooperatives that will be able to compete with gazprom and the oil states, but the big european companies.
in writing. i support the own-initiative report by mrs jäätteenmäki on the european ombudsman's access to information: clearer rules, as it sets clearer rules in this area. it is thus specified that all the bodies and institutions of the european union must provide the ombudsman with all the information he requests, whereas until now a document could be refused on the grounds of confidentiality. similarly, the obligation for civil servants to testify "on the instructions of their administration" will be waived, while the civil servant is obliged to speak the truth in his soul and conscience. the aim of mrs jäätteenmäki's proposals is to increase the confidence of european citizens in the work of the european ombudsman and the proposals are worth implementing.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i propose three measures. first, taxing speculation. this is amazing! we're drowning under the costs and the profits of total, eon, exxon and the speculators have never been greater. i want mr juncker, the ecofin president, to put his words into action. we can perfectly well tax these profits at national level, but coordinated at european level, and these revenues, millions of euros, will be used for my second point. secondly, in each country we will use this revenue to create funds to compensate for extreme cases, the extreme cases of certain fishermen, the extreme cases of certain truck drivers and the large number of households who are struggling to pay the costs today. not by subsidizing energy directly, but by helping them have money to pay for it and, most importantly, by linking it to energy efficiency. it is the poor who cannot afford to pay for the refrigerator that consumes the least. that's where we need to intervene. third, as political leaders we must be frank with our people. the crisis we are experiencing is not a small political crisis around oil. this is a structural crisis. we have an economic model that was designed for a billion middle-class people in the united states, in japan, in europe. this economic model is now spreading to millions more middle-class people in china, india, nigeria, south africa, mexico, brazil. this economic model has a systemic problem because it doesn't integrate resources and environmental pollution. so, commissioner, we need to be more ambitious on energy efficiency and my question to you is this: should the council not instruct the commission to present a whole package of measures in september for a major european energy efficiency investment initiative?
mr president, i would like to ask an administrative question concerning parliament. the post of parliament's head of bureau in luxembourg has been vacant for over two years. there was a postal release that was made six months ago. there were candidates who were selected and there was no decision made as a result of the questions i asked the administration. your office, mr president, has not given me an answer either. i would like to know if there are any specific reasons why this post is not filled and the candidates who have been chosen are not appointed.
in writing. as the fictitious rapporteur for my group, i voted for the rosati report on the amendment of certain provisions relating to the common system of value added tax. these amendments to the vat directive proposed by the commission are, in my view, significant simplifications and improvements. the clarification of the scope of the vat arrangements for the supply of natural gas, heating and cooling will enable member states to apply the reduced vat rates to the supply of these goods as provided for in the directive. in the current climate of soaring energy prices, i believe it is essential to enable member states to counteract excessive increases in energy prices by lowering indirect taxes. this helps to alleviate inflationary pressures which affect the economy and households' purchasing power. i would also like to stress that member states wishing to reduce their vat rates on the supply of energy are free to do so within the framework of the existing directives, particularly as regards minimum rates. we do not need new european legislation on this matter, european governments who wish to act quickly have all the means at their disposal to do so.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the liese report. i believe that the european union is unilaterally abandoning the kyoto protocol, which excludes the 'aviation' and 'maritime' sectors. while there is some reason to consider the climate impact of the two most important sectors for international trade, the european union cannot unilaterally change a multilateral agreement, while for example asking the united states to ratify kyoto. the eu's proposals on aviation could at most be post-kyoto, i.e. 2013, and that following an international agreement in copenhagen.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not today's the gas market. the gas market is divided into two. first of all, we need to get gas to europe. we need a stable investment policy which also takes account of the gas-supplying countries. we need long-term contracts and we need to give european companies the opportunity to invest in pipelines to bring this gas to europe. we need a single european gas policy, with 27 votes to represent the same thing abroad. that's probably the better definition. if nord stream is built, we'll have gas at the crossing in greifswald or somewhere else in europe. then we have the lng market, which means we have the european gas market. the question then arises whether we are making policy for consumers or policy for corporations in this european gas market. what does it take for a corporation to build a cartel? first, sovereignty over the pipelines, so that competitors do not enter his home market. secondly, you have to have control of the gas tanks so that he doesn't get a good buffer and then have delivery problems. thirdly, high market dominance: e.on controls 60-70% of the german market, gaz de france controls 70-80% of the french market, and there are no instruments to do anything about it. fourthly, weak european regulation, that is to say multinational companies, national regulatory authorities, who always get second prize. and fifth, there is a lack of transparency. what do mr reul and others propose? that's what i'm talking about. that means we're doing politics for corporations instead of politics for consumers. and so we greens have two approaches: we must bring gas to europe, but if this gas is in the european single market, then there must be competition: separation of the networks, better access to the storage facilities, gas release programmes. dear conservatives and dear liberals! you cannot continue to allow us to have 70, 80 or 90 per cent dominance in national markets, and the only weapon against that is gas release. we have tabled an amendment to reintroduce gas release, and we need that. fourthly, we need a european regulatory authority. that is why tomorrow is the hour of truth for the fdp and the cdu/csu members of parliament and for the liberals and the conservatives. we either do politics for the consumer or we do politics for the corporations.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i am not a great expert on monetary matters, but i am trying to understand what is behind the energy and food crisis that is raging at the moment, and my analysis is that we are entering another era. we are entering an era where the planet's resources are scarce. why would you do that? because we have a dominant economic model, dating back to the 20th century, that was designed and lived by a billion middle-class citizens in europe, the united states, japan, and by small elites in the rest of the world. that was the world of the 20th century. the world of the 21st century is a world where the middle classes will be hundreds of millions more people in china, india, indonesia, south africa, nigeria, mexico, brazil and other countries. so we are currently living in a dominant economic model that is experiencing a systemic problem. it's a system that didn't incorporate the idea that resources were limited. where are we going to get fish when the chinese eat as much fish as the japanese? where are we gonna get oil when all the indians are driving tatamobiles? where will we get the coal to power the world's steel mills if emerging countries are developing on the basis of existing technologies? that is the deep crisis. so i have three specific questions. first, speculation. this is the first step. speculation is not, of course, the underlying movement. but what about the citizens who are drowning under the rising prices, while the shareholders of total, eon and other speculators are drowning under the profits? mr juncker, you have put forward the idea of a tax on speculation. is there any progress on this idea? because i believe that the citizens want us, as politicians, to act. secondly, how can we make the european economy less dependent on oil and gas imports and their prices, and how can we do this quickly? could we not envisage a major investment programme, with the help of the european investment bank, for the renovation of buildings, public transport and also, for example, the installation of electric motors and other devices in small and mediumsized enterprises? i think that is the only way to reduce consumption, because we cannot control prices. my third point concerns the wage indexation system. mr trichet, you and i both have salaries high enough to be unaffected by energy and food prices. your salary is probably much higher than mine. but you also say that the national indexation systems as we know them in luxembourg and belgium should be abolished. is this not the only way, mr juncker, that the people have of having additional income at a time when prices are soaring? i don't quite understand your obsession with indexing systems.
madam president, we all welcomed the presence of minister jouyet on monday evening and the importance which the french presidency seemed to attach to the work of this parliament. but today, as we debate social security, the chair is hopelessly empty. i hope that this does not indicate a lack of interest on the part of the french presidency of the union in this important subject of social security.
madam president, as the quaestor of this parliament, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the road leading to the entrance to parliament on one side is blocked by the crs. they don't let official cars in. if some colleagues arrive late because they have to make another detour, they should not be punished if they cannot attend the voting.
in writing. i voted in favour of the brok report on the strategy for possible future enlargements of the european union to reaffirm my conviction that no further enlargement will be possible in the absence of a new treaty allowing the union to function with 27 or more member states, all accompanied by an adequate financial framework.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten nations account for 60% of the world's carbon dioxide emissions. among these ten countries, only one european country is included, germany. the 27 member states of the european union account for only 14% of global emissions. the united states, 17%; brazil, russia, india and china have cumulative emissions of over a third of the world's carbon dioxide emissions. all of this shows that european initiatives to combat climate change will remain futile if there are no comparable efforts from the us, china and other industrialised nations. until such an agreement is reached, europe must fight against carbon leakage. at present, no major industrial group is investing in europe. arcelor-mittal is based in france, but invests in brazil, russia, turkey, india and china. thyssenkrupp is investing in brazil, the austrian vöest is investing in india. ten floating glass factories are currently being built in north africa for the european market. in the absence of a concrete commitment from the other industrial states, europe must show its determination to defend its industrial fabric, its industrial know-how. it will be no use imposing sacrifices on the citizens of europe if the rest of the world does not follow. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january of this year, as rapporteur on the south caucasus, i drew attention to the danger of an unbridled arms race and stressed the importance of a peaceful settlement of the conflicts inherited from the soviet era, and we suggested the organisation of a three-plus-three conference, i.e. the three countries of the caucasus plus the european union, russia and the united states. since then, as mrs isler had pointed out, we have proposed to grant the same rights to georgians as to abkhazians with regard to visa facilitation. in the meantime, we know what has happened, military action, a disproportionate response, but the fact is that two countries which had declared that they wanted to adhere to european values by becoming members of the council of europe have flouted those principles by resorting to violence. this is unacceptable, it must be denounced and it will not be forgotten any time soon. europe, which has important relations with both, must play a balanced and balanced role in returning to a more reasonable policy and that is why it was important to speak with one voice and i am very glad that this was possible, even without the lisbon treaty ...
mr president, let me first of all say to mr hamon that we are not impressed by his blackmail and i regret that he is clearly the victim of a huge misunderstanding. mr president, while i agree with the broad lines of mrs bowles' report, i think it is necessary to stress two points. firstly, the transitional vat system, which dates from 1993, is now showing its limits. i do not think we can be satisfied with the provisional situation for much longer. the tax evasion, which we all condemn, in its direct and indirect effects, is partly due to the shortcomings of the present system. it should therefore be amended. i am aware that there are problems. that is why i recommend that the commission promote the solution proposed by the rtv vat organisation, which will avoid a tax loss of eur 275 million per day, while reducing administrative costs for smes. the second point concerns the question of tax evasion in connection with the directive on taxation of savings. the report contains unjustified remarks which have led me to propose amendments to rectify the situation. the legitimate and necessary fight against tax evasion must not lead us to question the principle of tax competition. i absolutely refuse, the two have nothing to do. on the other hand, experience shows that the withholding tax system for taxing savings is the most effective, whereas attempts are being made everywhere to impose the system of exchange of information, which is not without its faults. finally, calls for the reform of the directive, in the sense of extending its scope to all legal entities and all other sources of financial income, are also very ill-founded, since they will only have the effect of driving savings out of the european union. that is why i want these elements to be changed. otherwise we shall not vote in favour of this report.
mr president, as i said yesterday, i am against all tax evasion and i have asked the commission and the council to take steps to remedy the disastrous vat fraud, 20 billion a year has been quoted, or almost a fifth of the european union budget. i referred to a model developed by rt vat, an organisation which has presented it to us here in parliament, which would reduce vat fraud by around 275 million euros a day and reduce the administrative burden, particularly for smes. i think the commission should analyse these proposals, because the models are there. of course, it takes political will to adopt them. i was not able to vote for the report, however, because my group's amendments - in particular the amendment on the phrase that healthy tax competition will help to preserve and increase tax revenues in the member states and the one opposing the extension of the scope of the savings tax directive - were not voted on. we are clearly opposed to extending the scope of this directive to all legal entities and all sources of financial income. i think that in this context we should not forget that too much taxation kills taxation and those member states which want these extensions should be very vigilant because in macau, singapore and hong kong people are already rubbing their hands in the air at the idea that we are going in this direction. that is why i did not vote for the report, because i want it to be clear and precise.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in 60 seconds, and on behalf of my colleague bernard rapkay, i will make a few brief remarks. the creation of a well-functioning internal market for telecommunications is a very high priority for us socialists in particular. we welcome the commission's active role in this area. in particular, consumers must be protected from the obvious abuses of power by the large operators. there's obviously still too much air in the charges. the commission's initiatives in the field of roaming demonstrate that intervention in pricing is also necessary in a market economy. we prefer to see the visible hand of the commission rather than the invisible hand of the market, which is often the hand of pickpockets in the consumer's stock exchange. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking all the rapporteurs and especially catherine trautmann, who has done a formidable job, thanks to which we can have a very large majority tomorrow.
madam president, madam commissioner, i congratulate you on your commitment and i congratulate of course my fellow rapporteurs and especially mrs trautmann, who has made a tremendous effort to achieve this consensus which she wanted to be neutral and free of sectorial distinction. however, as regards spectrum rights, it should be noted that investment and depreciation cycles differ across sectors. however, the provisions of the text on the allocation and harmonisation of frequencies and licences place satellite operators in a delicate situation of legal uncertainty given the particular nature of their activity. the new article 8a proposed by the rapporteur does indeed provide some guarantees, but it still needs to be formulated more clearly in compliance with subsidiarity and the rules of the itu. questions also remain about the nature and extent of the commission's negotiating mandate. as regards mr harbour's report, i would like to raise the question of the definition of publicly available telephone services as defined in article 1 (2) (b). it should apply only to two-way services, and this in accordance with the definition given in the privacy directive. voip or game consoles are in no way comparable to traditional telephone services. their assimilation as such would risk creating a regulatory framework that would impede innovation and put tools in the hands of uninformed users that are not intended for certain uses, for example, the possibility of making an emergency call from a game console, which can establish one-way communication. the definition should therefore be limited to two-way services. as far as copyright is concerned, i support all my colleagues who have raised this issue.
in writing. we in this parliament have the bad habit of producing own-initiative reports on everything and nothing and on subjects which are more a matter of subsidiarity, i.e. the eu should refrain from interfering in areas which are a matter of the sovereignty of the member states and which are better regulated at national level. the report is unacceptable as it was voted by a majority of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i want to make it clear that, of course, we are concerned about the gender stereotypes conveyed by certain advertisements. of course, we are against advertising that offers sexual services and reinforces stereotypes about women as objects. of course, we want to protect children from advertising that promotes violence and sexism. of course we are aware of the importance of codes of ethics, codes of conduct, but it is not the commission's job to impose them on the member states. advertising must respect the values we hold dear, but it must be able to exist and play its role in the market economy without being accused of all the evils, which is the content of this report.
in writing. i voted for the compromise that was negotiated with great difficulty by the three main political groups in this parliament and i welcome the complete and balanced content of the report. the rapporteur had tried to shift the burden of the financial crisis onto alternative funds and private equity funds. these products are neither the cause nor the catalyst of the current crisis and i commend the rapporteur for recognising these realities and correcting the situation. the recommendations we are bringing to the attention of the commission are intended to cover all relevant actors and participants in financial markets and to fill in the gaps in existing regulation in order to address and combat the practices that have helped to transform the collapse of the us housing market into a global financial crisis. we are addressing the poor risk management practices, the lack of transparency in certain investment products and the conflicts of interest of rating agencies, which are the major causes of the financial crisis we are experiencing these days.
in writing. the telecommunications market is changing so rapidly that the legislative framework had to be adapted. however, it was essential for me that this framework should be clear and precise and above all that it should not hinder investment by european telecommunications companies which are in strong competition with the american and asian markets. our companies must be able to plan and invest in new technologies without delay. although it is beneficial for all to strengthen the internal market in the telecoms sector, i am glad that the commission has not succeeded in imposing its authority on us, but that the european parliament has proposed the oret, a credible alternative that would strengthen the cooperation of our national regulators and avoid a new bureaucracy that the institution of the eecma (european electronic communications market authority) would have entailed. the luxembourg telecommunications market, for example (4.7% of the working population is directly or indirectly employed in this sector), requires a powerful national regulator close to and aware of the specific nature of our market. in this case, it is wise to have applied the principle of subsidiarity.
on behalf of the pse group. mr. president, on january 2, 2008, richard arens, a broker at nymex, offered $100,000 for a 1,000 barrel lot of oil. for the first time, the price of a barrel of oil reached $100. the broker had committed $5,000 for this transaction. he immediately sold his lot, accepting a loss of $800. a slight loss that he and his colleagues duly celebrated for being the first to break the psychological barrier of $100 a barrel. in the months that followed, new york traders often broke records. on july 4th, the price of a barrel reached $148. even if the price of oil is on the ebb, the damage is done. the oil boom was accompanied by an orgy of speculation in raw materials, including food. the world economy cannot do without markets, but it is unacceptable that the financial world should organise crazy bets worthy of casino games. with a leverage of only $5,000, the new york trader was able to ignite a wave of oil speculation that left a bloody mark on the global economy. the stock exchange authorities have finally put a stop to pure speculation by temporarily prohibiting the sale of assets not owned by traders, the so-called naked short selling. to curb such unhealthy speculation, it will be necessary to impose, not temporary rules, but stricter regulations. this means that speculators must be able to cover their bets more effectively. the u.s. senate is currently debating a proposal to increase the actual stake traders place on each trade to a minimum of 25 percent, which would avoid a lot of risky bets based on peanuts, peanuts. over the last four years, funds invested in the us commodities market alone have increased tenfold. the price index of the 25 main commodities has thus exploded by more than 200%. price fixing is no longer determined by the actual physical supply and demand of raw materials but by the speculative mechanisms of the financial markets. in the first six months of the year, 60% of the transactions in the us oil market were virtual oil sold and resold repeatedly. the stock exchanges are no longer used to adjust the complex game between available supply and real demand, but to bet on financial products whose complexity escapes even the heads of financial companies. what matters to brokers and their bosses is the bonus. all the golden boys of the global casino have pocketed millions while losing billions to their clients. with profits being taken, losses are now nationalised. the american taxpayer will have to pay over a trillion dollars to pay for the rotten credits of international finance. this is equivalent to seven times the budget of the european union. in europe too, purchasing power is falling, credit has become more expensive, recession is looming. the commission, our governments, have always refused to over-regulate what are considered to be efficient financial markets. but after the financial geniuses have been totally defeated, the public authorities must urgently impose stricter rules, effective measures against unreasonable speculation in all markets, including the oil market.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr goebbels is right, there is a lot of speculation about oil prices, as mr borloo and mr piebalgs have said. the greens, the socialists and the united left tabled amendments to address this problem in our resolution, and i hope that those on the right who applauded today - and i welcome this - the idea of fighting excessive oil speculation will vote in favour of our amendments tomorrow. it would be ridiculous for this parliament to vote a resolution which does not deal with excessive speculation in the oil markets. the second important thing is the social aspect. we must help the poor to overcome this situation. to achieve this, i am in favour of targeted aid. it is better to give 100 euros to households with little money than to launch false good ideas such as a vat reduction. this idea, dear mr sarkozy, will be clearly rejected by parliament tomorrow and we are rather on the side of mr borloo, who supports the idea of encouraging the bonus-malus and giving citizens access to low-energy services and appliances. two final remarks: the allocation fund: we will only deal with this issue if we make progress on the road to energy control and renewable energy. mr commissioner, is the commission trying to be ridiculous again by presenting a strategy paper on energy, on energy security, without addressing the question of transport? in all the projects i've seen, there's nothing about transportation. it is ridiculous, our greatest dependence in europe is oil, not gas and there is nothing about it in your documents. lastly, mr borloo, coreper has discussed renewable energy today, and i no longer understand the french presidency. you're calling into question, with the appointment clause, including the 20% target. fortunately, this proposal has been rejected today by the majority of the member states. so i implore you, at the level of the french presidency, to stop putting this directive, which is really important, at risk!
in writing. the european commission's concern for healthy eating and physical activity for all citizens is commendable, in order to combat overweight, obesity and chronic diseases. i am of course in favour of the alarm that we want to sound in the face of the obesity epidemic, which affects 3 million children and 20 to 30% of adults, while 14 million children and half the adult population are overweight. i welcome the fact that the influence of taste enhancers such as glutamate, guanylates and inosinates, which are found in large quantities in a large number of prepared dishes and industrially produced foods, on consumer behaviour is being recognised and analysed. i am sorry, however, that my amendment, which seeks to promote healthy eating habits by consulting the euro-toques, an association which adheres to a code of honour and which defends the intrinsic quality of products and the protection of local products, was not adopted. i believe that we would be well inspired to use their know-how to promote best practice, for example in school canteens, in order to develop the taste of young people for quality food and healthy eating habits.
author. - madam president, thank you, commissioner, for agreeing to deal with this question which was raised some four months ago. i would remind you of the responsibilities of the committee on culture and education of the parliament, which, according to the rules of procedure, annex 15, point 2, is the promotion of the european schools system. these schools provide a priority for the joint education of the children of community staff. these so-called 'category 1' pupils represent about 70% of the current enrolment, pay no tuition fees and are funded by the commission to the tune of about 60%. the pupils in category 2, which is 5%, and in category 3, which is 25%, pay tuition fees of between eur 4 000 and eur 16 000. the 14 existing schools provide nearly 21 000 pupils from nursery to baccalaureate, out of the total of 100 million pupils in the union of 27, with education in 14 official languages with an identical school curriculum in all language sections. these pupils are therefore highly privileged compared with all other pupils in the european union. the commission committed itself in 2006 to reforming the system, and it is a commendable undertaking, mr commissioner, to set up a european schooling system for any type of school wishing to award the european baccalaureate, based on a common school curriculum with, as far as possible, teaching in the mother tongue. the parma school, which is accredited by the council of european schools, will be the first school of its kind to award a european baccalaureate in june 2009. the higher council of european schools, for its part, undertook last year a thorough evaluation of the baccalauréat in the light of the reform in progress. a study commissioned by the parliament's culture committee, available in october, reveals that 94% of bachelors are going on to higher education at major european universities and that 62% of them are studying at a university outside their home country. the mobility is therefore much higher than for other students. we have a european education system which has proved its worth. in its 2002 and 2005 resolutions, the european parliament called for a thorough reform of the school system to ensure better governance and openness. in view of the successive enlargements of the union and the multiplication of agencies and places of employment for staff of the institutions, is there not an urgent need to reform the model of the european schools system and should its transposition into the general education systems not be started? is it not time to offer european citizens a proven, multilingual and flexible school model, which takes care of their mobility and draws inspiration from the experience of european schools? of course, that's not our job, i already know the answer. but at least we should do something about it, because the perception of european schools as elitist schools and the division of pupils into categories within european schools themselves are not in contradiction with the objectives of achieving the single market, with our goals of mobility and with better social cohesion? what progress has been made in the reform and opening-up process to ensure the transition of the european schools system to a european schooling system, while maintaining the gains made so far? what community funding options can be envisaged to ensure that accredited schools operate better? parme may be showing us a possible path. finally, commissioner, what progress has been made in the field of education for pupils with special needs? i am well aware that this is a subject of interest to many of our colleagues and i thank you, commissioner and madam president, for giving us the opportunity to discuss it in open session.
i would like to ask the commissioner two further questions, madam president, because he has mentioned a figure, but it is the actual figure. mr commissioner, are there also increases in appropriations foreseen for the next financial perspective, is there a financing system to guarantee the operation of schools? there is reportedly a shortage of forty english teachers at this very moment, as there is a funding problem from her majesty's government. i ask you: what solution can be envisaged from this situation? secondly, the schools themselves would like to have more autonomy. are you in favour of greater autonomy or are you rather maintaining the system which is a cumbersome system and often unsuitable for local situations?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can support the resolution of the committee on employment and social affairs mainly because it contains my very specific proposals for combating undeclared work and in particular undeclared work. i am particularly pleased that my proposal was accepted, which calls on the european commission to develop a pilot instrument, as proposed in the 2 plus project, developed in luxembourg and co-financed by the european social fund. the project proposes to curb and make undeclared work pointless by means of an extreme simplification of administrative procedures for employers through social insurance for employees, an attractive tax structure for employers, in particular through the deductibility of costs such as neighbourhood assistance and tax exemption for any service paid below a threshold to be set by a member state. my proposal to propose a european framework statute for spouses working in family businesses was also adopted. i'm glad you did. i am also pleased that there is a call to recognise atypical family work and to consider its inclusion in a social security system, because in addition to the traditional undeclared work, there are millions of europeans, and particularly european women, who work in family businesses and are left to fend for themselves without individual social protection.
mr president, i would like to rectify my vote on amendments nos 3 and 9 to the van den burg report. i voted against it by mistake, but i wanted to vote for it. why would you do that? i believe that the proposal on capital requirements could include the possibility of issuers showing a part of their securitised loans on their balance sheets, or of imposing capital requirements on issuers, calculated on the assumption that they hold that part of the loans, or of providing for other ways of balancing the interests of investors and issuers. i also believe that the self-regulatory formulas proposed by credit rating agencies may be seen as insufficient in view of their fundamental role in the financial system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the age of the plumber. there was the polish plumber to influence the french non-signature of the constitutional treaty, there's joe the plumber to separate obama and mccain. even our heads of state and government are plumbing the incessant cracks in a completely broken international financial pipeline. our governments have gotten an ikea-style kit, a toolbox that should allow each state to tinker with specific solutions for each specific situation. every handyman knows that ikea's plans are hopelessly inadequate. the ikea method applied to international finance may not be sufficient. the presidency has done what it could do, namely crisis management, as president sarkozy has emphasized here. our governments have succeeded in plugging the successive leaks in an international financial system so interconnected that the malfunctions have become global. but there are limits to plumbing: the international financial architecture must be addressed. to redesign the financial world in the service of the real economy, there is no need to set up yet another high-level group. a low-level group to list the proposals of the financial stability forum would be more than sufficient. in 2001, the forum had already called for better coverage of banks' risk-taking. the european parliament has repeatedly pointed the finger at the obvious follies of international finance, but it has not been heard. the european summit expressed its determination to draw lessons from the crisis and to hold all the actors in the financial system accountable, including in terms of remuneration and other golden goodies. there's going to be an international conference to discuss all of this. will we have another bretton woods? doubts are allowed. there are already voices, including those in the presidency, warning against over-regulation. commissioner mccreevy is increasing the number of provocations. it does not want to legislate to cap the leverage capacity of investment funds. the european council wants to regulate the golden boy's exorbitant bonuses, but mccreevy is betting on the self-regulation we have seen in recent years. while mr paulson himself calls for better regulation of markets, commissioner mccreevy believes, and i quote, that there is a real risk that well-intentioned attempts to correct market dysfunctions will be translated into hasty, naive and counterproductive regulation. the charlie mccreevy of this world is already preparing us for the next speculative bubble. i predict that it will be formed on the secondary market of the ets. meanwhile, mr president, the real economy is in recession. this is not the time to change our environmental ambitions, but it is also not the time to unilaterally change the only european industrial sector exposed to international competition.
in writing. generally speaking, there are too many divorces in europe, and in my country in the first place. an increasing number of divorces are affecting mixed marriages, that is, marriages where the spouses are of different nationalities. the free movement of persons is an acquis of the european construction, so it is essential to establish a clear legal framework. i am aware that the national rules on divorce are extremely disparate, and i appreciate the danger of a genuine divorce tourism, if one could choose the court which is most advantageous to one of the spouses and most binding on the other. i would have voted for this report because the proposed regulation would have made up for the shortcomings by allowing two spouses residing in different member states to choose by mutual agreement, in full knowledge of the facts, the court with jurisdiction in their divorce proceedings, which should have been one of the two states of residence in the european union. unfortunately, during the vote, an oral amendment was adopted which caused such confusion that the whole report had to be referred back to committee. in the absence of such a referral, i did not take part in the final vote. the subject is too delicate to be deliberated in confusion.
madam president, i voted against the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union because at the last minute, by an amendment from the greens, which most of the members have not seen and have not understood the significance of, there is a new attempt to interpret the famous cox package on the future status of members in a way that would empty the members' voluntary pension fund of its substance. this amendment does not reflect what is expressly agreed in this cox package. there can therefore be no question of depriving almost all members of parliament of the acquisition of new rights. it is not possible that this amendment will have any effect on the implementing provisions to be adopted in this area. we shall see to it that this situation is rectified, because the vote took place without the knowledge of the members who are all coming to see me now and are amazed at the real significance of this amendment. as vice president of the pension fund, i'll make sure that happens.
in writing. - as at first reading, i did not vote in favour of the airport charges directive at second reading because what is proposed here will lead to unacceptable discrimination against luxembourg airport. that's no way to run a small country. the application of the directive to luxembourg airport, with 1.6 million passengers a year, and the non-application to the direct competitors frankfurt hahn or brussels charleroi, which handle over 3 million passengers, is an unjustifiable discrimination in the internal market, simply because a national border is in between. in this case, it is not national frontiers that must be decisive but objective criteria if the purpose of the directive is to prevent the possible abuse of a dominant position by airports. in a smaller airport, even if it is the only one in a country, there is no such risk of abuse, since the aforementioned competing airports, where low-cost airlines are also established, are within easy reach. luxembourg is so small that you can drive 30 minutes and be in three neighbouring countries. this is a flagrant breach of the principle of proportionality. i therefore reject this text, which is intended to be a compromise, with protest.
mr president, the pay gaps we are discussing here are all the more incomprehensible because young women today have higher academic achievement rates than men in all the member states and they represent the majority of those with higher education qualifications. i would like to stress, however, that we have had a solid legislative base since 1975 and especially since 2006, and that it enabled me, in the 1970s and 1980s, to encourage discriminated women in my country to bring legal proceedings against their employers, especially public employers. hundreds of millions of former luxembourg francs were paid to them retroactively. the first thing to do is to use the good legislation that exists, if only to improve it by following the excellent recommendations of our rapporteur.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive, which is supposed to replace the 1992 directive, is intended in particular to bring into line with the law the introduction, on 1 april 2009, of the control of movements of products subject to excise duty by electronic means, the famous emcs system. so it is a technical measure, but at the same time it is a step towards less bureaucracy, more speed and less fraud. apart from a few amendments, which i proposed and which were accepted, to ensure greater consistency in the operation of the new system, we agree with this part of the european commission's proposal. in its opinion, the committee on industry has considerably increased the burden on the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs by copying many of the amendments negotiated in the council. in fact, this approach does not bring anything substantial from our side. the political debate is elsewhere. it concerns the conditions governing the circulation and taxation of products subject to excise duty, in particular alcohol and tobacco purchased by private individuals. the european commission has been wise, for once, in proposing a text based on recent case law, i.e. allowing europeans to transport excise goods acquired in a member state other than their country of residence, without quantitative restrictions, provided that the goods have been acquired for private consumption. my proposal and my position as rapporteur are unequivocal: i am in full support of this commission text which is clear, precise and based on the principles governing the internal market. but some colleagues, particularly the socialists and liberals, felt obliged to propose amendments which would re-establish the tax frontiers that existed before 1992, by reintroducing indicative limits. however, an indicative limit in theory means a quantitative restriction in practice. by taking advantage of the absences and ignorance of certain colleagues, they obtained a majority in the committee. my group has unanimously decided to propose amendments to restore the original proposals of the european commission. it's only fair. we do not want to go back to the frontiers and practices that existed before the single market. we want solutions that are adapted to the times, including e-commerce. our message to the council must be clear: let us not propose to our fellow citizens to go back on the community acquis. the attitude of some socialists and liberals who want to abolish the last duty-free shops at the land borders of the european union is equally incomprehensible. unfortunately, the commission also wants this, even though these counters do not in any way disturb the single market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. now is the time to propose such things! but there's worse. the majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs even rejected my amendment which was to maintain the possibility of tax-free purchases for travellers to a third country as their final destination, in order to take account of the realities of connecting flights. why, if i am travelling to singapore from luxembourg via frankfurt or paris, can i not buy tax free at the airport of departure? i must say that this is quite depressing, mr president, i have six minutes, i tell you, but i will not use them. i now trust the good sense of the majority of our colleagues - it is a pity they are not here - to adopt a solution which is also in the interests of consumers and which does not reinvent new tax and bureaucratic barriers. those who vote against our reasonable proposals tomorrow will find it difficult to explain this backsliding to their countrymen. they can count on me and my colleagues to expose their backstage views.
member of the commission. − mr president, from the discussions i do see a general support for the main objective of the commission proposal, which is to provide the legal basis for the computerisation of excise procedures by april 2010. i want to emphasise and confirm that the purpose of the proposal is to simplify and modernise the excise procedure, to improve control of the movement of excise goods and at that same time to reduce red-tape excise obligations for traders and to reduce the burden on private travellers. these were the guiding principles for the proposals. i would like to make some observations in relation to the amendments concerning some of the more sensitive issues in the proposal. on the ‘guide levels’, the commission could accept to maintain guide levels as a tool, although we did not want to introduce or propose guide levels. however, the present quantitative reference values have to be kept. we cannot accept a reduction of these values, which would be a step backwards in comparison with the 1993 directive. on the abolition of tax-free shops at land borders, which is another sensitive issue, i want to remind you that the origin of this approach dates back to as early as 1960, when the wco, the world customs organisation, recommended the abolition of land-border tax-free shops, and i also want to remind you that in 2002, when the accession talks with 10 new countries were completed, countries like slovenia, hungary and some others were forced to abolish their land-based tax-free shops; so i think that the proposed solution, which provides a very long transitional period for greece and for romania, is quite fair in comparison to the stand taken with regard to the former new countries. on the reimbursement of excise duty to small fuel distributors, the commission maintains the principle that the insolvency of the final consumer cannot be a ground not to charge excise duty. at the same time, in view of the ongoing economic crisis and sometimes remaining high fuel prices, and to ensure fuel distribution to end users, it should be possible for member states to otherwise safeguard the interest of small distributors, provided that such measures do not disturb competition. concerning the impact assessment, a point which many speakers raised, i want to remind you that an impact assessment was already made in 2004, so we simply did not find it necessary to repeat it two years later. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament for its support and constructive approach. providing the legal basis for the new excise movement control system will allow the member states to speed up their preparation for the introduction of the system, foreseen by april 2010. the commission will take all necessary steps to ensure that all central systems will be operational by that date, as well as provide support to allow a smooth transition to the new paperless environment.
i'm the reporter. - commissioner, we are very much in favour of the emcs replacing the paper-based system in april 2009 and we hope that all the unfortunate discussion about the indicative limits will not delay the adoption of the directive. i would like to say to mr dos santos that these indicative limits have nothing to do with health or luxembourg. i would like to remind mrs ferreira that in 2005 we adopted the report by the socialist, mr rosato, in which we already voted for the abolition of indicative limits. moreover, mr hamon, who now has other concerns, had proposed in his amendment limits which were much higher than those of the famous social-liberal compromise concocted behind my back. i would like to say to mr olle schmidt that we must not mix towels and towels and talk about taxation and health in the same breath. the problem of alcoholism is, unfortunately, directly proportional to the level of excise duties. the higher the excise duty rates, the greater the scourge of alcoholism in the countries, which are of course free to have as high excise duty rates as they want, because we have only minimum rates and no maximum rates; but please don't talk to us about health policy when you're practicing these rates. i would like to say to mr skinner that smugglers really don't give a damn about the levels and indicative limits. in the commission's proposal there are criteria for defining goods acquired for private consumption which are better safeguards than indicative limits, including against smuggling, and i hope that we will be able to find the right solution tomorrow, which is the one i am proposing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not happy with the compromise, but i can live with it because the greatest damage to our farmers could be averted if we do not cut direct payments as the commission's ominous proposals suggest. if that money goes to the milk fund, it would hurt even less. unfortunately, i read this morning that the commissioner has again taken to the barricades against the milk fund. if we do not reduce direct payments by up to eur 10 000, it will not matter to the luxembourg farmers, because all those who are fully employed are above that. the priority is therefore to avoid cuts or to reduce them as much as possible. otherwise there is no future for farmers in luxembourg.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would ask all those who do not want to go back to 1992, before the common market was established, to vote against the report, because it is a disgrace what parliament is doing with the votes it has won. the report is mixed up with everything from health to taxation. if you vote against the report, you will be voting for the commission, which has made a good proposal. (applause from the right)
mr president, i asked the house to vote against the report because there is only a small majority who voted for indicative levels below what is currently applied. i would remind you that the commission does not want indicative levels. this parliament voted for the rosati report in 2005 to abolish the indicative levels and now we are going backwards and reducing what we voted for. most of the members of parliament don't know what they voted for. we are now reducing the indicative levels currently in force by 50%, so that instead of 800 cigarettes you voted for 400, instead of 10 litres of spirits you voted for 5 litres, instead of 90 litres of wine you voted for 45 litres, instead of 110 litres of beer you voted for 55 litres. you're going back 50% on what's available for private purchase now. i think the message to commissioner kovács and the council of ministers is clear, however, that there is a difference of five members who will not vote for my report in the end. so i want the council to know that the commissioner - he said that last night - agrees with indicative limits, but those that are valid today. i must make this clear, mr president, and i must say it as rapporteur because it is essential for the interpretation of the vote.
madam president, 2009 will go down in history as the year of the second great global economic crisis. in his book on the 1929 crisis, john kenneth galbraith said that the peculiar feature of this catastrophe was, and i quote, "that the worst kept getting worse and worse". the subprime crisis triggered a deflationary spiral which not only ravaged the financial world, but wiped out over 60% of the world's stock market capitalisation in one year. this liquidity and solvency crisis is increasingly affecting the real economy. the term "real economy", as opposed to the financial sector, is interesting. it emphasises the virtual nature of most financial assets. after the financial market crash, the states are making a comeback. the peaks are coming. the one in washington produced an impressive catalogue of worthy intentions. with the retrospective foresight that characterizes the big and small leaders who govern us, strong measures are being prepared to assess risks adequately, to prevent excessive leverage. supervision must become more efficient, without stifling innovation. we applaud, while awaiting clarification on the appropriate regulation, avoiding any excessive risk, without falling into overregulation. the return of the state as the regulator of markets is to be welcomed, but unfortunately it is often the return of the selfish national state. in a world more open than in 1929, any national action will quickly run out of steam. the recession calls for international solidarity. the european union must mobilise all its forces, pooling all the national budgetary resources available to invest as a priority in growth infrastructures and supporting purchasing power. president obama is reportedly planning to launch a stimulus package equivalent to four points of us gdp. the 27 member states of the union, which as a whole are less indebted than the united states, must make a similar effort to pull europe and the world out of a financial crisis that is pathetic for all.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the recession, the socialists are calling for a policy of solidarity and european solidarity. this is not just true of banking secrecy, it is also true of other economic sectors, including the industrial sector. we have often lamented the absence of a strong industrial policy in the european union. there are countries like the united states and britain that have largely allowed their industries to wither away by focusing on services. the result is not conclusive. europe must fight to maintain a broad industrial fabric on which smes and business services ultimately depend. the automobile industry in europe is not a dinosaur, a species doomed to extinction. i fully agree with what vice-president verheugen said on this point. we produce one third of the world's automobiles, even though car production has declined recently. cars produced in europe must become cleaner and less energy-intensive and we cannot foresee the foreseeable future without this indispensable mode of individual transport. the best possible public transportation system will never satisfy the need for mobility. the european union must therefore define a common response to the problems of the sector and the answer cannot be, as mr verheugen has just said, to strangle the european automobile sector. i do not want a europe where only japanese cars or, tomorrow, chinese cars are on the road. i know that the politically correct discourse is to give preference to so-called 'green' jobs. a recent united nations report estimates that the global potential for green jobs is 3% of total employment. they'll be welcome. however, basic arithmetic suggests that 97% of employment will not be green but will be in conventional sectors. all the more reason to fight for the maintenance of a european automobile sector which directly employs 2 million people and indirectly 10 million, or 7% of total european employment. when the united states, china and japan invest heavily in short-term programmes, europe cannot afford to stand by and watch entire sections of its industry disappear. those who say we should let the market do the talking are naive ideologues. without the intervention of the public hand, the invisible hand, dear to adam smith, prefers the short term and destroys structures that are indispensable to shaping our common future. we expect the commission, madam president, and i have finished, to provide a proactive european framework for maintaining the competitiveness and the very existence of the european automobile sector. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - i am not happy, but rather satisfied with the outcome of the compromise on the agricultural subsidy. we could avert the greatest damage to our farmers from the ominous proposals of the european commission if direct payments are not cut by 13% between 2009 and 2013. these direct payments, which are vital for our farmers, are likely to be cut by no more than 1% in 2009 and 2010 and 2% in 2011 and 2012. if this money is now going to the milk fund which we are proposing, for example to pay grassland premiums to the dairy farmers, then the reduction in direct income would be less painful. the price of milk is falling again, but not the cost of production, which has increased by 40% for fertilisers, for example. unfortunately, the commissioner is back on the barricades against the milk fund. even if we do not reduce these direct payments to farmers who receive up to eur 5 000 or even up to eur 10 000 a year, as is demanded in the proposals which go beyond the compromise of the committee on agriculture, this does not matter much to luxembourg farmers, since only the secondary sector has less than eur 10 000. the priority is to reduce the cuts as much as possible. otherwise there is no future for farmers in luxembourg. and that is unreasonable!
madam president, under the pretext of simplification, the european commission has been working hard to integrate all the cmos for all products from wheat to chicken, fruit and vegetables to tobacco, into a single cmo. the result is a large paving slab of a few hundred pages, rather indigestible, in which a cat no longer finds its young. because of its extreme specificity, as has already been said, and its complexity, the wine sector has, since the 1960s, benefited from a very detailed regulation, different from that of other products and which ensured clarity and transparency and, as a result, it was agreed that the wine cmo would remain specific. we are faced with a total integration into this big book. the commission does not want to see this dismantled, because wine and wine products are the last ones that have not been drowned in the swamp of the single cmo. if, legally, it is really not possible to go backwards, if we have to submit to reasons that reason does not know, madam president, then i would at least like to see mrs klaß's suggestions followed.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the contributors to this debate. i would like to reiterate the importance of this proposal in the simplification of the cap. the concerns you raised seem to be quite similar to those expressed at the very start of the single cmo project. but i think that experience has been quite reassuring. the single cmo is currently working really well. the cmo for wine was never simple, to be quite straightforward. on the contrary. what we are proposing is in fact bringing more clarity and credibility – to the extent, of course, it is possible – on the basis of a very complex existing text of the wine reform itself. no substance changes to the cmo wine reform will be done. we are talking about technical – and only technical – adjustments. there will be separate chapters. there will be issues unique to the wine sector which will be kept intact in the appropriate place of the single cmo, like those on production potential, support programmes, designations of origin, gi and traditional terms, labelling and presentation, oenological practices. but there will also be issues which are common to wine and other sectors, such as the provisions on trade with third countries or state aids, which will be combined into a single simple provision. i would also like to add that the possibility of using our search engines was mentioned. eur-lex has a search engine that allows extracting all provisions form the single cmo that mention the word ‘wine’. but of course, from a technical point of view, it is not yet possible at this stage to provide for a consolidated electronic version of the whole wine cmo extracted from the consolidated single cmo. but of course this should be possible when completed. i should also mention in the context of the questions of the honourable members of parliament that there is no possibility that wine issues would get mixed up in reforms with the other sectors. this is not a realistic prospect, simply, in practice. it is hard to see why a proposal on, for example, the dairy sector should somehow attract the attention of wine policymakers. in any event – from a purely legal point of view – integration into a single regulation does not change the situation. what would matter would be the substance of any changes proposed not the precise legal framework in which they were proposed. to finish, i think we need to take the final step to complete the single cmo. i would therefore like to underline that the determination of the commission to do so is very strong. but it is truly about simplification; it is truly about transparency; it is nothing more than that.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you to mr parish and of course also to ms lulling for this oral question and resolution on the eu beekeeping sector. the commission clearly recognises the importance that bees play in the eu’s ecology and its ecosystem. the commission is also aware of the reports made in several member states concerning significant losses in bee colonies. let me go straight to your specific questions – there were quite some of them – and try to point out straightforwardly what the commission is already doing in this sector. as regards bee mortality and research, in february this year the commission requested that the european food safety authority (efsa) study the mortality in bees and its causes in the european union. efsa collected information from member states and now intends to analyse it in order to provide the commission with a clearer picture of the epidemiological situation of bee colony collapse, and this would provide the basis for further action in this area. besides this efsa action, the commission is and will be supporting a number of research projects relating to honeybees in its research framework programme. if you are interested i can mention some of them later on. concerning ecological pollen zones, despite the fact that it seems difficult to set up zones as such, i would like to remind you that financial support is already granted for the efficiency of moving of beehives. this measure, which is provided for by council regulation no 1234/2007, is intended to assist the management of the movement of hives in the community and provide locations where high concentrations of beekeepers can gather during the flowering season. this measure may also include enrichment of apicultural flora in certain areas. concerning your third question, i would like to remind you that the placing on the market and authorisation of plant protection products is regulated by council directive 91/414/eec. this directive provides that pesticides may only be used if it has been demonstrated that they pose no significant risk of unacceptable effects to human and animal health, and the environment. therefore, this assessment also covers the acute and long-term risks to honey bees and their larvae and the tests applied are based on standards developed by intergovernmental organisations such as, for example, the european and mediterranean plant protection organisation, in which 47 governments collaborate. it is important to note that the community legislation is risk based. it is evident that insecticides are, by their nature, toxic to bees. however, their use may still be possible if exposure does not occur or is minimised to levels which do not generate harmful effects. classic examples of such risk mitigation measures are: well adapted agronomic practices, appropriate rates and timing of the applications (for example in the evening after honeybee flight, or outside the flowering period of the crop and possibly other adjacent weeds), direct incorporation of the product in soil, uses in glasshouse inaccessible to bees or treatment of seeds in specialised facilities. as regards the quality of the surface waters, the water framework directive has established protection of all waters; an obligation to achieve/maintain good water quality for all surface waters and groundwaters, by 2015; plus a prohibition of deterioration of water status; an obligation to establish a monitoring system; an obligation to develop the necessary plans and programmes by december 2009, in broad public consultation with local municipalities, stakeholders and non-governmental organisations. concerning support to apiaries in difficulty, i would like to tell you that the commission is glad to see that the number of hives increased between 2004 and 2007 – and this not counting enlargement. regarding losses of bees, you should know that, since 2004, a new measure on restocking of hives has been added to the list of eligible measures in the national beekeeping programmes. therefore it is now possible to compensate for losses of bees (and production) by funding activities to promote queen production, purchasing of bee colonies, or even purchases of hives. i think that the question which you are raising is of course extremely serious and we have to take it with similar seriousness.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, when there is danger in the house, i can count on the whole committee on agriculture and rural development and its chairman, my dear colleague mr parish. i thank them for their quick and effective response to my initiative to put an oral question with debate and resolution to the european commission to respond to the bee health crisis. in the context of the weakening and over-mortality of bee colonies, it is essential to analyse all the factors responsible for this increased mortality of bees and to propose an action plan to remedy this disastrous trend. the commission has just read us a long paper on all that it has done, but i must say that in recent years, since i have been rapporteur on the situation of beekeeping since 1994, it has been too busy listening to me and my colleagues when i try to draw its attention to this alarming situation, which is widely known and perfectly described, in particular by my colleague mr parish. i do not have time to repeat all this or to add anything, but since no one dares to deny that the mortality of bees is a mortal danger to our fruit and vegetable production, which depends on pollination, we demand that the commission act with more persistence and more resources. it should contribute to the analysis of the causes of this mortality of bees and, finally, integrate research and the fight against bee diseases into european veterinary policy. it shall promote the measures necessary to limit and eliminate the risks of poor pollination and to ensure sufficient and diversified food production for human and animal needs. they need to understand that the bee health crisis is as dangerous to human survival as the financial crisis is to the real economy. i will not mention the figures, except for one worldwide: the value of the pollinating activity of crops that humans eat is estimated at 153 billion euros. the solutions we are advocating are much cheaper than those which were mobilised for the financial crisis and, even if the pollination premium and financial aid for bee keepers in difficulty were finally introduced to ensure the survival of bees in europe, they would be peanuts compared to other budget lines. if you have a billion dollars to send to africa without any controls -- what do you want to do -- to fight hunger, with all the disastrous consequences that would entail, then you should be able to find some 60 million dollars to actually do something serious here. madam president, since i am the rapporteur in practice, can i say something more about the amendments? i have not used up mr parish's speaking time... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, since president parish was absent, he asked me to take a position on the amendments which came to us at the last minute. the committee on agriculture unanimously adopted the resolution, supplemented by all the amendments, all of which i have taken into consideration. but now the greens, who did not make any brilliant contributions during the debate on the resolution, are proposing at the last minute, to add to their coat of arms, four amendments which not only do not add a single new element, but would also make the text, which is currently coherent and legible, more difficult to read. amendment no 1 is due to a german translation error, because what mr graefe zu baringdorf is proposing is exactly the same as what i proposed, but as i said, the german translation of my recital is deficient. amendment no 2 is a knock on the door, amendment no 3 is unintelligible and amendment no 4 is a double-edged sword with paragraph 8, which clearly calls for more intensive research into the effects of pesticides on bee mortality, and it also says that the authorization of these products must be made dependent, as it already is, on this research. i therefore propose that these amendments be rejected because they add nothing, they would pollute a text which is clear and well drafted. i want to see good wording because this resolution is very important and we want it to be well drafted, which is why we want to reject these amendments.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their remarks and observations concerning environmental issues, which are so sensitive, as we are all in favour of improving the environment. two remarks concerning them raised observations. the commission shares the view that legally binding requirements for environmental inspections are really needed and are valuable. the commission is working in that direction. the question is where to have those binding requirements as regards the transformation of impel into a european inspection force. the commission still takes the view that it is better to preserve impel as it is.
madam president, i think you should take amendment no 1 back to the vote because there was the same majority that voted for amendment no 1. you were a little quick to say it was rejected.
madam president, the committee on employment is trying to challenge the committee on women's rights and gender equality's competence in the area of gender equality in the workplace. it has taken up our initiative to report on the discriminatory effects of wage and other inequalities on women's pensions and on trends in the individualisation of social security rights. the result is a catch-all report that aligns well-known generalities. we are far from the unequal treatment of women in the field of pensions and the remedies on which the committee on women's rights and gender equality wanted to focus its report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights based on rule 47 of our rules of procedure, i have tried, with the unanimous support of the committee on women's rights, to propose concrete corrective elements in the context of the reforms of the pension systems. there are six very specific programmes designed to fill gaps in women's membership, for example as a result of motherhood and family obligations. let us imagine that the employment committee has expressly rejected them, in flagrant contradiction to the obligations of article 47. i regret that, we have lost a battle but not the war and our fight will continue.
madam president, i voted for the parish report on the integration of the wine cmo, the single cmo; i must say death to the soul, because i consider that this single ocm is neither a simplification nor an increase in transparency. it will make life more complicated for the winegrowers and the whole wine industry. last night, the commissioner tried to reassure us. i hope that the commission will keep its word and that, above all, the profession will still be adequately represented on the advisory committee as it has been since the first wine cmo.
madam president, this resolution is a little late. it is a bit of an after-dinner mustard because, since the adoption of directive 91/414 on the placing of plant protection products on the market, very little has been done to promote research into the effect of pesticides on bees, particularly on the full reproductive cycle of bees. it is all the more surprising that, when the breyer report on the placing on the market, and therefore on the reform of directive 91/414, was voted on at first reading, many of those who voted for a resolution today voted against amendments to ensure better protection for bees. it is not wishful thinking that will move us forward, but facts and action, and i hope that when the second reading vote on the breyer report is taken, all members will remember this resolution and vote in favour of bees.
madam president, i would like to say to mrs hennicot, who has only been a member of this house for a very short time, that she obviously cannot know what we have been asking for since 1994, particularly in this area. i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to this debate and to the resolution on the alarming situation in the agricultural sector. there was no crowd last night, around midnight, and i understand that mrs hennicot was not there either, to follow this excellent debate, rich in substance, which was intended to encourage the commission to intensify its efforts in the face of this very worrying bee crisis. i am pleased to see that the commission has understood us. i would point out to the services, madam president, that amendment no 1, which was adopted and which my group voted against, is a purely drafting amendment. the german translation of my recital b is deficient; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. as regards the amendment on the authorization of plant protection products, which has since been withdrawn, i agree with the substance. however, since it quotes word for word the text voted in the committee on the environment on the placing of these products on the market, i had considered, with my group, that this text should not be plagiarized and that the committee on the environment should have priority. but our recommendation and demand is very well expressed in paragraph 8 of the resolution, where we ask for exactly the same thing, namely that research on the links between bee mortality and the use of pesticides be intensified with a view to taking appropriate action on the authorization of these products. it is clear that a pesticide that kills bees should not be allowed. that's what we've been saying for years.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to apologize - i hope you will accept this - for my misjudgment of traffic in brussels. i would like to thank you, commissioners, for agreeing to this debate and thank you for the intensive work of collaboration which began in bali under the slovenian presidency and then at the informal council in saint-cloud last august on the energy-climate package and which has continued throughout these five months of the presidency. our common commitment is to reach agreement at first reading, according to a timetable compatible with international deadlines and the renewal of your parliament. i would like to hear you in this debate before i join the european environment council, which is taking place at the same time all day. i'll report back to my colleagues on our discussions, your appreciation. the coordination of our work cannot be more optimal and i thank you for this invitation, which proves our common desire to reach a comprehensive agreement on what is agreed to be called the energy-climate package. we are indeed entering the final stretch with the poznań conference, which is to set the course for copenhagen in december 2009. at a time when the world is still hesitating between dawn and dusk, when states say they are ready to commit themselves - but not alone - to accelerating change - but only if it is financed or accompanied - to reviewing their mode of production and consumption - but only if they do not risk losing competitiveness. the world's eyes are on europe in december 2008, because what will happen in europe in the coming days will be a kind of rehearsal, an anticipation of what will happen in the great global negotiation, i hope. the energy and climate package is the 'how-to' package, the package of a massive and controlled energy, economic and technological transition, with a shared operating mode, solidarity mechanisms and methodology, all in a union of 27 countries democratically committed to each other. this is probably the first time in modern history that different economies are trying to change their paradigm at the same time and together. economic development has never been more closely linked to these energy conditions. ladies and gentlemen, that is the duty which history has entrusted to us today. the energy-climate package is the world's largest economy 450 million consumers, 15% of greenhouse gas emissions trying to demonstrate that sustainable development is possible across 27 states, despite such different industrial, climate, geographical and economic histories. it is also a demonstration to other continents that one of their main partners is already engaged, and it is proof that it is possible. you know the three objectives: they are the famous three times twenty. that's what they're traditionally called, although on one of the 20%, the debate is 20 and 30%. so the three times 20: reduction of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 90 percent, 20 percent renewable energy and 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency. the commission has translated these objectives into five major regulatory projects: the eds directive or co2 emissions trading scheme for industry and energy suppliers, which aims to reduce emissions from industry by 21% by 2020; the so-called effort sharing directive, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2020 in sectors not covered by the eds, such as construction, transport or agriculture; the renewable energy directive, which aims to increase the share of renewable energy from just over 8% in 2006 to 20% and to reduce transport by 10%; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. finally, the regulation of co2 emissions from motor vehicles, the objective of which is to reduce co2 emissions from 160 to 120 grams between 2006 and 2008. before going into the details of the negotiations, which are by their nature volatile, i would like to make four general remarks. firstly, this complex package forms a coherent, independent and equitable whole, in which everyone must be able to find his place and make his contribution according to his industrial, energy or geographical characteristics. let me thank the commission and the presidencies that have preceded us for this highly collective work. our objective is clear: a package of this magnitude would normally have taken several years. due to the global timetable the democratic deadlines in the european parliament, the poznań and copenhagen meetings all actors wanted to try to get an agreement before the end of the year. it is obviously a very difficult task but we have no escape. this objective, which was set at the european council under the german presidency, was reiterated in october under the presidency of nicolas sarkozy, even though some states, faced with the crisis, expressed their concern and wished to defer any decision. there were undoubtedly tensions and it took a very strong commitment from the president of the republic for us to continue to make progress in this area. the agreement of october was therefore the confirmation of what had been achieved under the german presidency. you had first wanted to move your vote forward to today, or yesterday. this reaction, this wish, was a tremendous accelerator, tremendous pressure, at a time when the worry was pointing to this climate, and it had an absolutely beneficial effect. you were kind enough to receive us, together with jean-pierre jouyet - i mean the group chairmen, the rapporteurs, the committee chairmen - and we discussed together the best possible conditions for trying to reach an agreement before the end of the year. and we have, i believe, and i thank you for it, advocated for each other that this in-depth debate can be held today, postponing the conclusions of these debates to this afternoon in the council, the council of 11 to 12, a trilogue next weekend to arrive at a debate, i hope with a vote on 17 december. let me say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that history may perhaps remember that this was one of the turning points towards the agreement which remains our common objective. we have entered a crucial phase of discussion. there is no political or policy position of the member states in this case. we are not in a negotiation, as can sometimes happen, where, for financial reasons, there are positions, positions to advance this or that advantage. we are in a kind of positive paradox. we are aware that we must act because the stakes are vital, but we must do so in such a way that the result of each directive is socially, financially and economically acceptable for the whole of the union and for each member of the union. the negotiations are now at a crucial stage. the trilogues - and it is the quality of the trilogues and the trust between each other that has made it possible to alter the timetable slightly - are the best of what we could wish for each other. we have a short time to finish, less than two weeks. the trilogues - some of which were held late last night - must allow us to finalise 90% of the text, which can then be translated into all the languages of the union. in the run-up to the council meeting on 11 and 12 december, the council of environment ministers will be discussing the issues on which it still seems possible to reach agreement between member states. this afternoon the presidency will try to make further progress on many of the points concerning the four texts which make up this package in the strict sense of the term. i will also present your agreement on the proposal for a regulation on co2 emissions from light vehicles and fuel quality. i shall then propose that the council's conclusions on the commission's communication on deforestation be adopted. the fight against deforestation and forest degradation and the conservation and sustainable management of forests are essential elements of a future international climate agreement. these are the elements which have been the subject of many discussions with our friends on the african continent. we also have, i hope, unanimous conclusions on the gmo issues. a final trilogue will take place over the weekend, between the end of the council on 11 and before 17 december, in time to prepare for the debates and the vote in plenary on 16 and 17 december. the previous trilogues up to last night have gone very well technically. a few months ago, to be honest, the case seemed technically insurmountable. i must say that both of them and the permanent representation, coreper, have risen to the challenge and done a brilliant job. i would also like to thank the representatives of parliament at these various meetings, and particularly at the trilogues. work has progressed well and the texts are well advanced on the vast majority of points. in particular, the overall architecture and the national objectives assigned to each state are now very widely shared. several difficult issues, however, remain under discussion within the council and between the council and parliament. we can see that in the framework of the ets directive, which is probably the most difficult, we must find systems of progressivity and financial solidarity to ensure the energy transition of the countries with the most carbon-intensive economies. the energy performance of industry in europe varies from one to three times that of the rest of the world. carbon emissions from one to four times, even five times, depending on the sector. this gives an idea of the difficulty we are facing, but we must reach this agreement while preserving europe's economic and industrial competitiveness. contacts with european industries have been ongoing. yes, electricity auctions must be organised, but we must find a way of regulating it which does not lead to a massive increase in prices for the final consumer, whether it be households or industry. we are drawing up a roadmap which will ensure that transition without creating a risk of unfair competition in the internal market. as regards the risks of carbon leakage, we are working on two hypotheses which are not mutually exclusive: the one of a progressive auctioning and the one of a carbon inclusion mechanism as envisaged by the united states in its own package. the argument that this would pose a problem for free trade does not seem relevant to us. in any event, the choice of mechanisms will simply have to be decided at a later stage. at present, the main issue is to determine what is desirable for sectors which are particularly vulnerable because they are exposed to potentially very high additional costs in terms of competitiveness and to the risks of relocation. some, like our german friends, would like to see only one criterion applied and we should abandon progressivism. a solution acceptable to all must be found. in short, we are faced with three major blocs in the current state of negotiations. the first is the baltic states, which under the terms of the treaty have committed themselves, one or two at any rate, to dismantling nuclear power stations which, because of their particular geographical situation, constitute a veritable energy island. these countries rightly point to a number of specific technical, material and financial problems. the second block includes countries whose industries are significantly less energy efficient, as they are highly carbon-intensive. the most obvious example is the case of poland. it is our task to find progressive systems for these countries which do not in any way alter either the overall objectives or the final timetable, i.e. the deadline of 2020, but which are acceptable to other countries. the progressivity of the system is to be favoured in these cases. finally, the countries of the third block, although they have no major or equally important concerns in this process, are very attentive to the costs of the necessary solidarity between us and to the use of the resources from the various auctions and, in particular, to the choice, or not, of the post-allocation. in two days' time, on 6 december, a meeting is to take place in gdansk between president sarkozy and the heads of state or government of poland, the czech republic, hungary and slovakia, the baltic states, and romania and bulgaria. i am convinced that they will find ways of reaching agreement on the subjects which they legitimately consider to be of the utmost importance. at the end of this first phase, before parliament returns, there will inevitably be a strong commitment from the heads of state and government. this package cannot work without a strong and unanimous commitment by the states. who could have doubted it, in fact, from the beginning. we cannot propose such a change in the economic and social foundations of the lives of 450 million european citizens without a very powerful political process. the temptation is inevitably strong in all national parliaments, and perhaps even in some of them here, to reject the obstacle, to say: 'why wait for copenhagen, wait for the formation of the new american administration' or, given the financial, industrial and social crisis, 'this is not the time'. and it is not understanding that what is not done today will cost much more tomorrow in terms of productivity and competitiveness. if we do not act now under conditions which are perfectly tolerable by our economies and our democracies, we will fall back into the irreversible and the intolerable and then no progress will be possible. we would have failed in the eyes of countries that need our success to believe in development. we would have failed in the eyes of countries that need our success to believe in their sustainable development. we would have failed in front of our children. in any case, how could we meet our african counterparts with whom we reached a common europe/africa platform, confirmed in addis ababa a few days ago, and then go to copenhagen talking about paradigm change at the global level, if europe, which is in this business, whether we like it or not, and we saw it in bali, the white knight, does not adopt this package. i do not see how an agreement could be reached in copenhagen without this first step. on the other hand, if our 27 countries, which still have wide disparities in wealth and a priori divergent industrial and energy histories, and also different climates, manage to agree on a public process that can be evaluated, controlled and financed, thus initiating a change in historical trends, i believe that this will be a great hope for copenhagen and for the future of our planet. we are absolutely convinced that this codecision, which is by its nature an extraordinary opportunity - for i do not believe that any element of democracy could have advanced on its own in this way - remains the indispensable rule for such an important change. that is why, let me say, we will of course make the best possible use of all the debates, of the opinions we will hear this morning, or even in the early afternoon, and i hope that this codecision will enable us to reach this major milestone, the milestone which the citizens of europe are also waiting for, the milestone of responsibility and the milestone of hope. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have a political leader in the united states now, president obama, who shows foresight and courage. obama will make green technologies, renewable energy and efficient cars the centerpiece of rebuilding the american economy. it is also about the ethical reconstruction of this country, which president bush has led into economic, peace-building and ethical bankruptcy. at the very moment when we have this huge historic opportunity, we here in europe - we who have always led internationally, we who have always set the standards in international climate policy - risk being held back in our vision by the dirtiest corporations and their minions. it would be a historic mistake and we would lose all diplomatic credibility if this parliament did not help to make this package a package for the future. this is a political issue, and i am proud that last night we, together with the liberals, the social democrats and the very hesitant conservatives, advanced renewable energy. i have one more conservative in my way, and that is mr berlusconi. this climate package is also about the political future. i am glad that we have a social democratic leader in mr rasmussen who wants progress and green social policies and not like other social democrats back to the 1970s. i am glad that mr watson is on a green-liberal course, and the exciting question will be: what do we think about the preservation of creation? where is the ethics in what is supposed to be the largest people's party in europe? are we really going to allow conservatives like tusk, berlusconi and merkel and their helpers in this parliament to prevent europe from making historic progress for its citizens and the world?
mr president, few issues dealt with by the european parliament have such a major impact on the people of europe, and indeed the world, as the energy-climate package. but instead of dealing with this matter in a transparent way, everything is being done to get this vitally important package approved by bypassing the normal democratic procedures of parliament. of course, the committees responsible were able to take a decision, but the plenary was never able to take a position, thus eliminating the democratic right of any member to amend the commission's proposals. while it was decided to strengthen cooperation between the environment and industry committees, negotiations took place in an informal trilogue on the basis of a vote in a single committee. is it necessary to stress that this vote does not necessarily reflect the majority opinion of parliament? moreover, the positions adopted by the committees responsible are generally only available in english, thus preventing many members from actually finding out the extent of the proposed measures. this democratic refusal was justified by the european desire to set a good example to the rest of the world at the poznan conference. the european union will have closed its doors before the heads of state and government have come to a decision. minister borloo is right to insist on the need for agreement at the level of heads of state and government. but we cannot afford to ignore the contribution of members directly elected by the peoples of europe. nevertheless, parliament will be called upon to endorse the compromises negotiated by the presidency at the next european council, thus reducing the codecision provided for in the treaties to an exercise in style. this is unacceptable. i want a deal, but not just any deal. i want a deal in democratic transparency. i hope that a comprehensive agreement will be reached in copenhagen in 2009, but the adjustment of the european effort in the framework of this comprehensive agreement will not be possible through comitology, as proposed by the commission and as the green colleagues in particular want. an ambitious climate policy, mr president, cannot be decided behind closed doors and without the knowledge of the citizens.
mr president, we lend a president who has been cornered by history - i am talking about mao, not sarkozy - the following maxim: 'as long as we are falling, we have not yet reached the bottom'. the global economy has not yet reached the bottom. the financial crisis is playing into the overtime. a new financial scandal demonstrates the incredible lightness of bankers in the face of speculative capitalism, while the same bankers rediscover all their eyebrow-raising rigor in the face of credit demands from consumers and entrepreneurs. as the central bank lowers the money rent, the banks increase their margin. the member states which have just bailed out their banks should require them to immediately pass on the significant reductions in the key ecb interest rate. it would be a stimulus measure that would cost nothing to national budgets. the economic recovery plan adopted by the european council is unsatisfactory. apart from additional loans from the european investment bank, there is virtually no additional money. the united states will inject more money into its economy. they can do this because the rest of the world continues to lend to them despite the abysmal deficits of the american government, corporations and citizens. europe is paying a heavy price for the absence of a genuinely common macroeconomic policy. the frugal attitude of the ecb and the eurozone states prevents us from financing a more effective economic recovery policy by issuing euro bonds guaranteed by a european union whose financing capacity remains intact. yes, thank you, mr president, i will stop, but president sarkozy has spoken for 72 minutes and we have 90 seconds to express ourselves.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the renewable energy directive is a milestone in european energy policy. this directive will not only make electricity, heat and transport in europe more environmentally friendly, it will also make energy locally so that jobs and money stay in europe! we will build a lead market, a technological leadership in europe and also secure our export markets. in these times of crisis, is there anything better to do? this success is a collective success. the collective success of those who are not seen here: lise, aris, hans, paul, michel, fred, all the employees who have worked in the background. it is a success of this parliament. i would like to thank once again fiona hall, britta thomsen, umberto guidoni, werner langen and anders wijkman for the confidence they have placed in my leadership of the negotiations. and i want to thank one man in particular, jean-louis borloo. without his personal commitment, that of his cabinet and that of the french presidency, we would not have been able to catch mr berlusconi, for example, a week ago at the weekend and get this directive through. so a collective success, and that is exactly what europe is doing! firstly, this directive provides investment security. because we have binding targets of at least 20%. we have binding national targets, very detailed national action plans, intermediate targets which are closely monitored by the commission. and that will put enough pressure on the 27 member states to now rely massively on wind, solar, water, biomass. the 2014 revision clause is soft. this revision clause does not call into question the objectives and will not call into question the cooperation mechanisms. the italian renewable energy industry thanks me today for the fact that we are now making progress in renewable energy in a country like italy, across europe. these national objectives - 34% for austria, 17% for italy, 23% for france - can also be achieved through cooperation mechanisms. that was one of the points on which we had to make a correction to the commission proposal. we want cooperation and not speculation in the renewable energy market! that is why we were against the proposal for guarantees of origin for trade. the infrastructure is also renewable. we've made sure that electricity grids are open, gas pipelines are open, that we're investing heavily in heating networks, and that buildings, like the roofs of public buildings, will be used for renewable energy in the future. the point on which i, as rapporteur, am personally less satisfied is the part on renewable energy in transport. our planet has limits. we have limited oil resources, but we also have limited agricultural land. so we have put a stop to the myth of 'large luxury coaches and suvs running on pseudo-green gas'. we will focus on electric mobility, and we will put biomass much more in opposition to sustainability. the greens will continue to fight with the environmental and development movement to stop nonsensical agrofuels from entering the market! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you all, and thank you for the flowers, it was a pleasure to work with you. i just wanted to comment on a couple of little things. firstly, mr andris, you are quite right, commissioner. we are talking about 20%, but for me 20% is the minimum. i'm sure that by 2020, we'll do better than 20 percent, because the costs for technology will go down, because the whole system and the whole economy will be built around renewable energy. look at electricity, we're going to go from 15 percent green electricity today to 35 percent in 2020. who's going to stop us from being at 50 percent between 2025 and 2030? so this directive is starting tomorrow the green energy revolution and i think that it will have to be accompanied by two measures next year. first, more money from the european investment bank. secondly, when the commission presents the renewable energy action plan next year, i would like it to give serious thought to regional cooperation: north sea - baltic sea cooperation, regional cooperation around the solar plan launched by france and also regional cooperation on biomass. why not set up a centre of excellence in poland to accelerate the use of biomass throughout eastern europe, in combination with heat networks? so the green revolution is underway. what we can focus on now is energy efficiency. the 20% energy efficiency has not been talked about enough in recent months. we couldn't do it all. but so energy efficiency, buildings, transport logistics, electronics, electric motors, all of these things must now, in 2009 and 2010, be the focus of our attention. and it will take sweden, spain and belgium, which will hold the eu presidency, together with parliament and the commission, to make energy efficiency the european union's other success story if we are to be on the right track. thank you, everybody. it's been a real pleasure. it was almost a lifelong project, in a way, a dream that i was able to realize, and so i thank you for all the satisfaction that you have given me through this series.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, the procedure chosen to discuss the energy and climate package has prevented parliament from doing its job in a truly democratic way. an informal trilogue has produced a compromise which must be accepted. i remain convinced that a first reading would have enabled parliament to impose better solutions on the council, particularly as regards technology transfers to the underdeveloped countries. emission reductions must be global, which means accepting the contribution of the clean development mechanisms, instruments recognised by the kyoto protocol. the report of the committee on the environment was unreasonable in many respects and was a manifestation of the fundamentalism denounced by president sarkozy. the rapporteur had to withdraw and was content with 20 recitals. the report of the industry committee was much closer to the result finally obtained. the result could have been improved if parliament had been able to work in democratic transparency. the energy-climate package ultimately leaves a bitter taste because it was negotiated behind the scenes and in the absence of a real public debate.
mr president, there is a risk that carbon sequestration will become a sort of poltergeist in regaining public acceptance of the building of dirty coal power stations. why? firstly are you aware that the best ever ccs power plant, which we rebuilt, will have around 150 to 200 g of co2? this is more than existing gas chp power plants today; more than today’s existing technology with gas chp. secondly – and, mr davies, that is really what you have to judge for yourself – in parliament’s position we had a cap on co2 emissions, which we lost. so now we are in the situation that we lost the cap and we have a 15% subsidy under the ets regime for new coal power stations, for example in germany, between 2013 and 2016. thus the economics of building conventional coal power stations remain acceptable and i do not know how that fits in with aggressively combating climate change.
mr president, first my congratulations to mrs dorette corbey. it was crucial for me, as rapporteur for the renewables directive, that we work closely together to get the sustainability criteria well enshrined, and enshrined in the same manner, in the two directives. thanks to mrs corbey’s combativeness, we in the end ensured that in the fuel quality directive there is full duplication now of all the details of the sustainability criteria and that is important for the readability and the visibility of eu legislation. on this issue of sustainability criteria, i think we now have major improvements on what the commission proposed. the carbon footprint is now very well defined, not only for direct but also for indirect land use. that is crucial for the future. i think we have also made sure that environment and energy experts – dg tran and dg envi at commission level, but also at the national level experts from the environmental and energy sectors – will work together on these sustainability criteria, and that too is crucial.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this file, which has turned out to be more complicated than expected. we take our commitment to maintaining depositor confidence in times of financial turmoil very seriously and i am grateful for parliament’s willingness to treat this issue rapidly. however, i also have to admit that i am disappointed with certain proposed amendments to the directive on deposit guarantee schemes, especially on pay-out delays. let me recall that on 8 december this house voted in favour of a pay-out period of a maximum of two weeks. however, the compromise currently on the table provides for a pay-out delay of four weeks, which can be further extended to six weeks. when you add to this another week of decision-making by competent authorities, this means seven weeks. seven weeks is a very long time for depositors who are unable to buy food, pay bills or use their payment cards. let us not forget that the regime currently in force, which allows for a pay-out delay ranging from three to nine months, will remain in place for a further two years. i am concerned about the message this sends to european citizens and how it will affect our confidence. i am concerned about the possibility of having to witness once again pictures of citizens queuing at their bank the next time they hear that the bank is in trouble. my concern is that several weeks of no access to one’s funds is too long a time to keep depositors’ nerves calm in a crisis situation. i also regret that the compromise on the table is not more ambitious in increasing the level of coverage. let us not forget that nearly all member states had already increased their coverage to eur 50 000 by october 2008. this is why the commission proposed to send a clear signal to depositors that their protection will be increased almost immediately. what was meant to be an immediate signal will now have to be postponed to mid-2009. nonetheless, the commission will support the agreement between parliament and the council if it is endorsed by your vote. it remains important that the coverage level be increased to eur 50 000 by the end of june 2009 and eventually to eur 100 000, and that co-insurance is abandoned from mid-june. the commission will come back to other outstanding issues in the report next year. i look forward to working with parliament on the important task of restoring confidence in the financial system among our citizens.
mr president, it is well known that, although it was necessary to restore confidence, the political decision of the finance ministers to increase the level of deposit guarantee led to a number of consequences and technical difficulties. the increase in the guarantee to eur 50 000 and then to eur 100 000 entails a de facto review of the operability and feasibility of the systems put in place in the member states. i would therefore like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr ehler, who has approached his work with an open mind. i will support the compromise reached by the rapporteur in the trilogue with the council. but i would like to make three points. first, the time it takes to pay back the loan. the 20 day deposit refund period may seem too long to some but i would ask them to consider all that needs to be done before such a refund can be made. unless they are in bad faith, they will see that a delay of a few days to collect, verify the information and then proceed with the payment is simply unrealistic. 20 days, we'll see him, it's already very short. mr president, i am unfortunately aware of what i am talking about, since luxembourg has the unfortunate privilege of having to implement the deposit guarantee scheme in the case of kaupthing bank. a number of lessons are clear. we must take them into account, especially if we are to make progress in the interests of savers. it is essential to distinguish between bankruptcy and the cessation of payments of a credit institution. in the event of a default, a bank resumption may be considered. however, a very short-term repayment of the deposits would make this scenario impossible. the directive should therefore make this distinction. second teaching. in most member states, the new requirements make it necessary to revise deposit guarantee schemes. so they have to be given time to act. the deadlines proposed now seem reasonable to me and, commissioner, there is still a margin between the 20 days on the one hand and the seven weeks you are talking about. in conclusion, mr president, it is essential to restore the confidence of savers, but it would be fatal to impose solutions which are not viable. that's why i was advocating moderation. maximalist demands would only make matters worse. i have finished, mr president, but it was important to get things straight and not speak at a pace that our interpreters cannot keep up with.
in writing. - it took me a long time to get the right attitude to this controversial working time directive. i was flooded with comments on the common position, which my government has also agreed to. the small and mediumsized enterprises have asked us, especially in the present economic situation, to agree to the pragmatic solution of the ministers for labour. but many individual workers and professional groups, such as actors, fire brigades, have asked us to leave it at the pragmatic solution and allow them to opt out in order to have the flexible working arrangements that suit their particular activity. the trade unions have spoken out against this pragmatism with the understandable fear that longer working hours might be possible in the 21st century than the 48 hours agreed in 1919 by the international labour organization as the maximum weekly working time. it is also clear that the availability of doctors and nurses in hospitals is to be assessed differently from the availability of workers at home, which is actually on call. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted for the cercas report which opposes certain proposals made by the council in june 2008 which aimed at a substantial revision of the directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in place since 1993. i can only support the rapporteur who advocates the gradual abolition, within three years, of any possibility of derogating (opt-out clause) from the maximum legal working time, which is 48 hours of work per week for individual workers. as for the time spent on duty, it is clear to me that this time, including the inactive part, must be regarded as working time in its own right. in voting for the cercas report, the ep's committee on employment and social affairs adopted a balanced and protective position for european workers, a position which i share. the measures recommended by the council, if implemented, would be a step backwards in relation to the existing workers' rights, which would be unworthy of a europe which wants to be both competitive and social.
very nice, very nice too!
in writing. i abstained on the toy safety directive in protest at the undemocratic procedure of confronting the european parliament with reports negotiated in informal trilogues, thus preventing the normal functioning of parliamentary work. the proposed directive also demonstrates the absurdity of the precautionary principle. the legislator multiplies rules and prohibitions to give himself a good conscience, while children play with these rules in their play.
