on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president, and mr commissioner! first of all, i'd like to thank mr. stockman for his willingness to compromise in this very difficult task. i believe that the aviation market is precisely the transport sector that requires european regulation, because national markets play a smaller role here. it is therefore essential to ensure that european union airlines are treated in a non-discriminatory manner as the main infrastructure providers in aviation, namely airports. i am glad that the transport committee is making the compromise that the reductions in charges can be applied depending on the quality of the service rather than the quantity, and also on new routes. and speaking of the overall scope and substance of the directive, it seems to be hitting one of the pain points in the airline industry. this is reflected in the desire of many to reduce the number of airports covered by the directive. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to congratulate slovenia as the first new member state to hold the eu presidency. i think that other new member states will be able to learn a lot from slovenia's experience as they prepare for their presidencies. the eu's external relations are also very important for the eu. for my part, i can announce that latvia intends to ratify the lisbon treaty in may, during the slovenian presidency. the commitment of the slovenian presidency to strengthen the eu's role as a global leader in climate change mitigation and renewable energy is welcome. climate change and energy have been at the forefront of public and political attention for many years. however, it is important that this priority is not only a loud commitment but also reflected as a priority in the eu budget. given that the mid-term review of the financial perspective should start this year, it would be important to hear the views of the slovenian presidency on possible priorities for the eu budget in the context of the mid-term review. i believe that climate change and energy issues should be among these priorities, including devoting a greater share of the eu structural and cohesion funds to energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy sources. the commitment of the slovenian presidency to pay greater attention to the western balkans, including the issue of kosovo, is understandable. however, the opinion expressed by the slovenian prime minister that the security situation in bosnia and herzegovina could be worse than in kosovo has generated mixed reactions. it is therefore important to have a clear understanding of the slovenian presidency's views on the situation in the balkans and its proposals for stabilising the situation. i thank you for your attention and wish the slovenian presidency a successful outcome.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to acknowledge the great activity of the kenyan people on election day. the elections were characterised by a high turnout and the patience of the population, despite long queues and technical problems in some constituencies. unfortunately, the situation with the presidential election was quite different. the required transparency was not provided. the numerous irregularities and discrepancies in the information have cast doubt on the results of the announced elections. unfortunately, it seemed like the way the results were being compiled was based on the principle that it doesn't matter how you vote, it matters how we count. in the event that a credible and transparent recount of votes is not possible, an extraordinary presidential election in kenya should be supported. the already tense atmosphere unfortunately turned violent after the announcement of the election results. the priority now is to stop the violence and prevent a humanitarian crisis. the european union must support the mediation mission between the president and the opposition, led by the african union and kofi annan, to stop the violence and find a solution to the political crisis. the european union should be prepared to continue this mediation if necessary. the european union must, of course, provide kenya with the humanitarian aid it needs to alleviate the plight of the many thousands of refugees who have been forced to flee their homes because of the violence. however, humanitarian aid must be delivered in such a way that it actually reaches the refugees and that the necessary resources are controlled. from this perspective, the european commission's decision to transfer €40 million in budget support to the kenyan government the day after the elections, despite criticism from eu observers of the election process, is questionable. unfortunately, budget support does not provide for strict control of the use of funds and the provision of such support to a president and government with questionable aspirations to power should be carefully evaluated. i call on the european commission to assess this case and to inform the european parliament of the measures taken to prevent a recurrence of such a situation.
my fellow citizens! in a situation where several powerful geopolitical actors are competing for the south caucasus, it is important to see their true impact. in the report we have very much increased the recognition of russia's role in this region. from the experience of the baltic states, we can say that many of the problems are caused by russia's neo-imperialist foreign policy, the desire to regain influence in the lost territories. i cannot agree with the report's view that nato participation could contribute to the renewal of the conflict in abkhazia and south ossetia. it should be noted that more than 70% of the georgian population voted in favour of nato membership, but in reality the situation has been complicated by russia, which has promoted ethnic and demographic changes. we cannot ignore the people's desire to move closer to western democracy. the democratic process in georgia was further confirmed by the presidential elections on 5 january, which were held in full compliance with international standards. we may have been too critical of azerbaijan, as it has shown a willingness to respect human rights by presidential decree in december, 119 prisoners including journalists were released. the european union must become more actively involved in resolving long-standing conflicts, which are a prerequisite for stability and development. the first step could be to promote the replacement of russian military forces with international peacekeepers. clear language with russia is needed. the language of aesop is not a way to go from promises to action. thank you.
thank you, chairman. i would like to commend the commission for opening a debate on this important issue. while it is logical to formally include emissions reduction and renewable energy in a single document, i believe that it artificially increases the political tension on each of the issues and obscures the debate. so i'm just going to talk about the renewable resource issue. the european union currently has a number of countries with good performance in this area. it is a choice between security of supply, economic competitiveness and climate protection by the national governments concerned. energy security is now of particular importance, as oil and gas prices and security of supply make them particularly risky. there is no reason to believe that the member states of the european union are unaware of this. if the european union's common targets for increasing the share of renewable resources are to be supported, then setting them at the level of the member states is not, in my view, the task of the moment. and this cannot be done after assessing the specific circumstances in the member states, in the municipalities, taking into account not only economic but also social and cultural factors. the irony is that countries that have already done a lot in this area are faced with an additional ambitious challenge. the role of the european institutions should not be underestimated, which can add substantial value, for example in the area of the liberalisation of gas and electricity, but the issue of renewable energy production must be left to the member states, where many of them have long understood it.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to thank you for your support. in his rhetoric, putin occasionally mentions the possibility of russia's missiles being directed at europe. this indicates that there is a certain strategic balance between the us and russia. but that's not the case between europe and russia. nor are the french and british national 'nuclear-guards' responsible. the question seems to be: how do we ensure that europe, rather than the united states, has a common missile defense? are we really talking about these issues because the united states is concerned about its own security? madam president, commission representatives, the european union does not provide this kind of protection itself! do you not think that it is only natural that the united states, nato and also some european union countries decide this bilaterally? i think that the european union must definitely formulate a clear attitude, and then it should be implemented together with nato and the united states. otherwise, we wouldn't be wasting our time here, because it's all up to nato.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president, commissioner, representative of the council! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr ferber on his work to find a compromise between parliament and the council in a politically sensitive area such as postal services. i would like to emphasise that the objective difficulties of liberalising access to universal services, mainly for the new member states, were ultimately reflected in the directive as a perfectly sufficient two-year extension for booking these services. at the same time, a good legal framework has been created to guarantee universal service. because the ball, i think, is now in the court of the national authorities. and as difficult as it is for postal companies in some countries, including my own in latvia, i think market liberalisation will solve the seemingly hopeless situation of the old-fashioned postal service providers. and as regards tomorrow's vote, i would also urge that these proposals should not be supported, because the member states must use their powers also in relation to the visually impaired. thank you.
mr prime minister, you and we have high expectations for the future of europe. savulaik schuman had hoped to unite europeans who had been divided by centuries of conflict. he realized that to know where he was going, it was important to know where he had come from. are you aware, mr prime minister, that the european union has not made an assessment of its undemocratic, totalitarian past? a notable example is the european union's framework resolution on racism and xenophobia last year. the denial of nazi crimes is recommended to european countries as a punishment, but the crimes of the communist regime, their unfounded denial, and even more their glorification, are deliberately forgotten. europe cannot afford that. how should the millions of people in eastern europe, including those in the present-day european union, feel about the torture they suffered in stalin's concentration camps? i urge you to seriously consider and promote the removal of this problem in the name of the future of europe and justice. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president. commissioner, the council representative! i would like to turn today to the potential impact of a current issue on the objectives and targets of the lisbon strategy. the impact of global financial market problems and the us economic difficulties on global economic growth is the first serious test of the renewed lisbon strategy's ability to counter the potential disruption to growth in the european economy. despite the current difficulties, faster long-term growth remains a priority for europe. this requires the emergence of many new, active companies on the market. there is no doubt that the turmoil in the financial system requires measures to restore stability. but remember, this is a time for responsible decision-making. the restoration of stability in the financial system must not undermine the financial system's task of promoting the growth of european enterprises. i would like to emphasise this because start-ups need to significantly expand their range of financing solutions. it is essential to encourage competition in funding offers. it is welcome that all lisbon strategy documents have emphasised the task of unlocking the growth potential of smes. the commission's proposed small business act is welcome. however, the current situation is that large and well-established companies have incomparably better financing options than those wishing to start their own business. the lisbon strategy lacks the mandate to promote a broad, competitive range of financial instruments, which is an essential prerequisite for unlocking europe's growth potential. the timely response to financial instability cannot be to limit financial innovation. thank you.
thank you, madam chairman. commissioner, please! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and their assistants, because the work is very extensive, with a lot of references, document research, country-by-country analysis. and yet i want to highlight some things that i think are underreported. yes, i would also like to add that it was very pleasant to hear from the commissioner what she said about the activities that will be carried out in these countries in the near future. and yet, it seems to me that there is too little strategic decision and action in the report and in the european union's attitude towards these countries in general, whereas it seems to me that both russia and china, south korea, india and others are playing a very important role in this region. and here i want to draw attention to what i think my colleague a. bielan has already mentioned. on 10 october 2007, the leaders of several countries met in vilnius to discuss the pipeline from the caspian sea. a week before that, mr. putin, who doesn't go out to other countries very often, went to turkmenistan with nazarbayev and made a political deal, offering a slightly higher price for gas, that all gas from turkmenistan and kazakhstan would go through russian pipelines. so actually rushed ahead of, let's say, our colleague's decision. and also, i think, there's a certain parallel with the events in andijan, that after that, a few months later, the president of uzbekistan was forced to demand that the american base leave. i think we should be more careful about these things... i just want to point out that these aspects, the strategic aspects, we have to look at and take into account much more carefully. thank you.
thank you, mr president. the lisbon treaty may not have been a great achievement for those who wanted to see the constitutional treaty ratified, but it was certainly not a great achievement for the eurosceptics who did not want to see any new treaties in the european union. this means that it is a classic political compromise and as such it would be ratifiable by all the member states of the european union. of course, the european parliament has been given more powers under the lisbon treaty, and this imposes new responsibilities on us. and also, as a whole, the european institutions have to show the european citizens that they are capable of showing genuine european solidarity in economically sensitive areas, so that we do not end up with a new energy solidarity clause just like the introduction of the free market principle in the european territory with the services directive. as much is in our hands, i very much hope that the representatives of all countries, both in this parliament and in the other european institutions, will take this important evidence to the european citizens. thank you.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council! today, listening to some of my colleagues, i am reminded of an old truth that is already written in the holy scriptures: it is easy to criticize, to belittle, but to build a house, to build a temple is a difficult, long-term task. and i have to remind the critics of this treaty that the basis of the lisbon treaty, the constitutional treaty, was created in the most representative democratic forum in european history, with the participation of civil society organisations, in the presence of the mass media. and so i would like to congratulate my colleagues, mr méndez de vigo and mr corbett, who have prepared this report, on which we are now going to have to vote. because this report is actually a very good outline, a very good outline, and mr j.-p. bond is right that the consolidated version is currently only available in english. so i suggest that we actually publish this document as a brochure, as a very good outline, because not everyone will read the full contract. and touching on the very terms of the contract itself, they said a lot of good things, they also criticized this and that. i think it is very good that a common foreign and security policy has been formulated, as has the need for a common energy policy. at the same time, it is bad that there are no new instruments for implementing this policy - neither to the commission nor to parliament. what does that mean? this means that there is still work to be done to implement these policies. so, actually, half the work is done -- the foundation is laid, but the other half -- the implementation -- is still to be done. i wish us all the best! thank you.
thank you, mr. chairman, for giving your word. i would like to make sure that, at the 50th anniversary of the council of europe, we do not forget one of the european union's main slogans: health in all eu policies. it is not enough that we only mention it in individual meetings, that we declare it, but we do little about it. the health situation in europe is worsening, as the statistics show. the migration of specialists from the european union will increase, the incidence of many diseases will increase, and at least the priorities taken by the slovenian presidency, the fight against cancer should also be supported at the council. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. demographic, economic and social factors in europe require solutions to make effective use of the professional and cultural experience of older people, to ensure the highest possible quality of their living conditions and to minimise the costs of demographic trends. the programme proposed by the commission is both a response to the need and a search for opportunities to drive technological progress in the sector in question. the digital divide itself barriers to the use of information and communication technologies, sometimes even insignificant, are excluding a significant proportion of older people from active socioeconomic life and limiting their access to the services and assistance provided by new technologies. while supporting the commission's proposal, it should be noted that new developments in information and communication technologies are taking place at a breakneck pace in those segments where there is a viable demand. while agreeing with the commission's observation that the purchasing power of older people is increasing, it should be noted that significant differences in income levels between member states persist. there are also significant regional differences in the access of older people to information and communication technologies within individual countries. i would like to stress that the success of the commission's proposals will determine not only the availability of the technologies themselves, but also their access and the opportunities and incentives for older people to receive training, which will be essential to reducing income levels and regional disparities in europe. however, the most difficult challenge will be to bridge the digital divide created by information content. in this area, where the digital divide between small and large nations, small and large economies persists, bridging it across generations is the most economically difficult task. mr president, latvia, whose capital, riga, hosted the e inclusion ministerial declaration in 2006 which formed the basis for the document under discussion today, has not joined this programme. in this connection, i have a question, which was also raised by the rapporteur, about the interest of the countries participating in the programme in involving other member states in the financing of the seventh framework programme, while maintaining this unchanged.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to thank the slovenian presidency for putting cancer so high on its political agenda. i want to highlight one initiative in particular: the european cancer patient summit, which was held this week here in brussels under the patronage of the slovenian presidency, with the participation of more than 150 patient groups from all over europe. this very successful summit, where i also had the honour of addressing the audience, was the first event our new commissioner for health attended in this capacity. i must admit i was impressed by the commissioner’s speech and the commitment she expressed for the fight against cancer as a whole and the concerns of cancer patients in particular. i was also very happy to learn that the commissioner intends to put forward a new cancer action plan, starting next year, to ensure that cancer remains high on the commission’s agenda. these initiatives from the presidency and the commission must encourage all of us to focus on what should be done, rethink what we have achieved and discover where the current deficits are. and now we are very much looking forward with high expectations to the upcoming council conclusions on this topic. i am confident that these conclusions will provide a very good and solid basis for the following presidencies to continue along the lines set out therein. therefore, i would like to strongly encourage the upcoming french presidency to follow up on established initiatives and to keep cancer high on its agenda. finally, i would like to thank all those colleagues who contributed very much in drafting the motion for a resolution on combating cancer in the enlarged european union, on which we will vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the question of the level of total budgetary expenditure and whether it should not exceed 20% of the total administrative expenditure of the eu has been raised again in the preparation of the 2009 budget of the european parliament. i would therefore like to support the rapporteur's approach that the level of expenditure in the european parliament's budget should be based on justified needs after careful consideration. of course, 2009 will bring significant changes to the work of the european parliament. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon will lead to a significant increase in the legislative workload, additional costs for the change in the system of remuneration of members and public information campaigns in the context of the european parliament elections. however, by concentrating on the core areas of activity, by carefully analysing budgetary demands and by assessing the possibilities for internal staff reorganisation before new posts are created, it is possible to keep the level of expenditure on the european parliament's budget within the limit of 20%. the possibilities for limiting waste paper and energy consumption in the european parliament are still not fully explored. i am pleased that last year the proposal to reduce the circulation of paper versions of certain documents was supported by stipulating that paper versions of these documents should be available on request rather than automatically distributed to all members and staff. implementing the proposal will save more than three million sheets of paper a year. this principle can be applied to a number of other types of documents. as regards next year's budget for the european parliament, the question of parliamentary assistance expenditure cannot be avoided, and i therefore invite the working group set up by the bureau of the european parliament to come forward with proposals to make the cost of this expenditure more transparent and easier to control. thank you for your attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the 2009 budget of the european union can be seen as preparing two important matters from a procedural point of view. first, the ratification of the treaty of lisbon has brought about a significant change in the budgetary procedure of the european union and the necessary preparatory work is needed to ensure transparency and the smooth functioning of the 2010 budget of the european union. secondly, work on the revision of the eu budget, including the reform of the common agricultural policy and the uk compensation, must be stepped up to ensure a successful medium-term review of the financial perspective. the policy priorities for 2009 proposed by the european commission promoting economic growth and employment, combating climate change and sustainable development are welcome, but they must also receive the necessary support from the eu budget. unfortunately, the limited budgetary resources available within the limits of the financial perspective mean that the funds needed to finance the new priorities will have to be sought within the existing budget and redistributed. the restrictions on the mobilisation of certain eu budget funds may need to be changed. for example, the current limitation for the structural funds to only 3% of the resources of the relevant operational programme for energy efficiency measures prevents new member states from reviewing their priorities for the acquisition of structural funds in line with the new european energy strategy and climate change priorities. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament is used to talking about common values, a common and fair history, but sometimes misunderstandings occur. mr barrot, i think you were right when you said that europe still needs to be told the truth. it's about compromise. perhaps not in the way that mr cohn-bendit has suggested. but thank you, commissioner frattini, for the scheduled hearing. i had the opportunity to participate and also to make several submissions at that hearing. i thought the debates were very meaningful. unfortunately, he made a clear, firm, objective statement about what to do next. unfortunately, once again, russian representatives continued to justify the crimes committed by totalitarian communism in the occupied territories of the ussr. russia is not surprised, but what will the european union do? will the double standard continue? do you demand recognition of nazi crimes for their denial or for their gross trivialization in the member states? you're asking for a sentence of up to three years? and at the same time, avoid the crimes of the totalitarian regime of the ussr. some of the victims of the soviet totalitarian regime are still alive, but the european union's attitude is not satisfactory, and it continues to humiliate them even more. it is about citizens of the european union. the european parliament should take a stand against such injustice. unfortunately, we see once again that the presidents of the political groups have not decided to draft a resolution on this issue. so we cannot put in writing the thoughts we are expressing here today. mr. barrot, i urge you to not lose sight of this important goal and to fight for a common understanding and a fair history in the name of the treaty. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner. the judgment in this case actually gives hope that the court of justice of the european communities will recognise the four fundamental freedoms of the european union in real life. the term 'social dumping', which is also so popular in this parliament, did not work in this case, where the aim was to prevent other member states from allowing companies to provide services in the single market of the european union. in this discussion, i would like to highlight one political aspect: the member states of the european union, including to a large extent, for example, sweden, have in recent years made huge profits in the baltic states through the provision of aggressive financial services, especially in the field of real estate lending. we never restricted this capital flow even when the profits were extremely high and were obtained by means of a peculiar social dumping of exports respectively, latvians who worked in these banks received a salary not even close to the one swedes receive for the same work in sweden. now, during the financial crisis, many latvian families are overpaying for borrowed money for a long time, but our people and companies will not be able to compete in the european union market, and therefore they will not be able to repay these debts, which will in fact result in the loss of the same swedish pension funds and other shareholders in banks. we are all on the same european ship, let us make the fundamental freedoms of europe truly free, and we will all be free! thank you.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! although relations between the european union and latin america have been described as dynamic, the potential for our cooperation is far from exhausted. now, some practical things: latin america as a whole is rich in energy resources, but its demand will increase and will require massive investment. it is mutually beneficial for our investments to have equal opportunities in the different latin american countries, even those with certain restrictions. the european union, on the other hand, must lend a helping hand in the field of renewable energy technologies, because climate change is a shared issue. the reality in latin american and caribbean countries is that the benefits of democracy sometimes do not reach the society at large. it is therefore essential to transfer our experience in strengthening democratic institutions. a stable and secure region with sustainable socioeconomic development is in our interest. the transition from donor policy to cooperation between partners on an equal footing is both an objective and a desirable outcome of joint work. thank you.
thank you, mr president! i would like to take this opportunity to commend the european commission for representing the interests of the new member states in the negotiations with the united states on the introduction of visa-free travel programmes. the commission has kept this matter on its agenda. the european union and the united states welcomed the successful conclusion of the march negotiations to resolve potential conflict situations by allowing individual member states to enter into negotiations with the united states on the implementation of bilateral visa-free travel programmes. the united states has, as is well known, maintained its position that it will only lift the visa requirement in bilateral negotiations with each member state. the outcome of the eu-us march meeting, which agreed on the so-called twin-track approach, is therefore welcome. in the current situation, it is seen as an ideal solution that eliminates possible conflicting policies. the member states currently negotiating with the us on the implementation of the visa waiver programme have a strong interest in the implementation of the agreement reached with the us at the march meeting on the electronic travel authorisation system and the coordination of its implementation with the envisaged european union system by june this year. for these member states, a delay would mean a prolongation of the visa waiver programme with the usa. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group madam president, minister, commissioner, colleagues, the european parliament is a great example of the european union's commitment to the rule of law. i myself became aware of the situation in georgia a week ago when i visited tbilisi as part of a delegation from the european parliament. on behalf of my alde group, i would like to draw the attention of the international community to the destabilising role of the presence of the russian federation's military forces in the conflict zone. the request by georgia to the international community and international organisations to consider the possibility of replacing its so-called russian peacekeeping forces with another format is to be taken into account and supported by the european council and the european commission, including the possibility of providing a european union-supervised peacekeeping mission in the abkhazia region of georgia. strong international support and cooperation with georgia is needed to resolve this conflict, but i would also like to call on the georgian government to make its utmost contribution to improving the internal political climate within the republic of georgia itself. the presidential elections on 5 january this year were a decision to go off the rails, while various irregularities and uncertainties were observed in the electoral process, and i regret to say that the action of the responsible georgian authorities was insufficient to convince voters and candidates of the political will to investigate all the electoral irregularities that occurred during these elections. i am confident that the georgian authorities will take all necessary steps to increase public confidence in the electoral process in the parliamentary elections in may this year. and in this context, i would like to congratulate the european commission on its election assistance programme, which involves four ngos, the united nations and the council of europe. all political parties, the government and its opposition, must do everything possible to improve the current highly polarized climate in georgia and to introduce a genuine democratic political culture. both sides - the coalition, its opposition - and, of course, civil society need to understand that internal instability increases the risk and potential for further destructive influence from neighbouring countries, in particular from the russian federation. thank you for your attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. as regards the estimate of the 2009 budget of the european parliament, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that his strict approach to budgetary expenditure has been justified and that the total level of expenditure of the european parliament next year will not exceed 20% of the total administrative expenditure of the eu. thus, despite the changes in the work of the european parliament expected in 2009 - the increased legislative workload under the lisbon treaty, the change in the system of members' remuneration and the public information campaign in connection with the european parliament elections - the total amount of expenditure will remain within the limits previously set. the performance of individual ambitious projects should also be realistically assessed in the context of the 2009 budget. firstly, there is the european parliament internet tv project. in order to assess the effectiveness of this and similar projects, data on the attendance of the european parliament's internet television and the extent to which real viewers are attracted by these multi-million investment should be collected. as regards the communication policy of the european parliament and the forthcoming public information campaign, greater emphasis should be placed on decentralised communication through parliament's information offices in the member states. this makes communication with citizens in different member states much more efficient than centralised communication. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs lynne for her comprehensive and relevant report, with which the commission fully agrees. the commission strongly supports the requirements for the full transposition of directives 2000/43/ec and 2000/78/ec. as you know, the commission has opened a number of infringement procedures with some member states and will not hesitate to use its powers to ensure that european community law is strictly respected in the future. where not yet applied, to achieve rapid and consistent improvement. the commission also agrees that the monitoring of the implementation of both directives needs to be improved. the commission is therefore currently working on programmes to detect discrimination more precisely. what really matters is the real impact on individuals, not just an abstract idea of how things might work. the report also appropriately highlights the crucial role of equal treatment institutions, which play a key role in monitoring, providing support to victims and improving rights awareness. i would like to emphasise the irreplaceable importance of the non-governmental sector in this area. the commission is in favour of extending the role of institutions and the role of the non-governmental sector to also address discrimination on grounds other than ethnic origin and gender. as announced in the commission's 2008 work programme, i intend to present a proposal based on article 13 of the ec treaty that would extend the current protection against discrimination beyond the labour market. this will be part of a broader programme on opportunities, access and solidarity to be adopted at the end of june. the need for further anti-discrimination legislation at eu level is now the subject of lively political debate. let's get this straight. this debate is not about whether to fight discrimination, but about how to do so most effectively. given the political sensitivity of the issue and the lack of openness of some member states, the groundwork needs to be carefully prepared. at the seminar on the preparation of the renewed social agenda on 29 april, we agreed that we must deepen our analysis before deciding on the best way forward. whatever the commission decides in the coming weeks, it will be based on a thorough analysis. it will take into account all forms of discrimination in all their aspects and take into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. most important, it will be in a form that will bring real benefit to those who need it. finally, i would like to mention that the commission intends to present a communication on the follow-up to the european year of equal opportunities, setting out concrete measures to improve protection against discrimination in the european union. the communication will be accompanied by a commission report on how eu policies are contributing to the betterment of the roma.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lynne, from the committee on employment and social affairs, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs as well as on behalf of my political group, for her excellent work and this excellent report. unfortunately, discrimination still remains one of the most significant and widespread human rights problems in the european union. as to anti-discrimination directives already in force, i would like to stress that they provide for only minimum standards. it is a shameful situation that a number of member states have not transposed and implemented even those minimum standards. we think the european commission should use the infringement procedure against such member states more actively. everyone in the union must be sure that he or she cannot be discriminated against and that he or she has effective legal tools in order to fight against discrimination. the member states and the commission should also actively support awareness-raising and training for combating discrimination. another problem, as we have just heard today, makes me even more anxious. it is that we really need a comprehensive legal framework for combating discrimination. as far as i understood from the statement of the commissioner, we cannot be sure just now that the work programme declared by the commission for 2008, which we have welcomed very much, with the proposal for a directive implementing the principle of equal treatment outside employment on all grounds, will provide this. for me it would be a real shock if the commission excluded some grounds from the scope of protection. it would mean that we can easily give up our values and, as soon as the year of equal opportunities is over, we again feel free to treat europeans differently. we cannot allow this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her clear and unequivocal position that, based on the results of scientific research, she recognizes that global warming is real and that it is caused by humans. it should be remembered that until a few years ago, many influential politicians, including some of the leaders of the great powers, tried to deny it. the report goes one step further and rejects as scientifically unfounded the claims that global warming is not happening and that it is just natural temperature fluctuations. with this report, the eu is once again showing that it is the world leader in the fight against global warming. but there is no reason for euphoria. to keep global warming to 2%, co2 emissions need to be cut by at least half by 2050, according to current estimates. in this context, the report's claim that almost all eu member states have made good progress towards the kyoto targets is unjustifiably optimistic. between 1990 and 2005, the eu-15 reduced their emissions by only 2%, and it is unlikely that they will reduce their emissions by a further 6% in the remaining 5 years to meet their collective kyoto target. the fact that the new eu member states have reduced emissions much faster than the eu as a whole makes it possible to claim the status of global leader in this area. the new eu member states are expected to reduce their co2 emissions by 21% by 2010. this fact alone allows eu leaders to talk about the 20% emission reduction target for 2020 as ambitious. this is certainly a welcome objective, but it is important that the biggest polluters should be responsible for the bulk of this reduction. attempts to build eu climate change policy on the achievements of the new member states and some of the old ones, imposing additional burdens on them while giving concessions to the biggest polluters, must not be allowed. but whatever the distribution of emissions reductions among eu member states, we will achieve nothing unless there is a global agreement and countries like the us, china, india, russia and others are involved in tackling the problem. this issue must be a priority in the eu's foreign and climate change policy. thank you for your attention.
the author. - ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to stress that i call on my country latvia to join the un resolution of december 2007. secondly, i invite the high representative to give a reasoned opinion on the initiatives contained in the resolution. thirdly, i call on the european union to ensure that information is exchanged between member states on the types of munitions expected to be used in operations. i have a kind of personal experience with depleted uranium. i was the minister of defence of latvia for five and a half years. it was during my tenure that latvia joined the us coalition in the iraq war. during this period, the use of depleted uranium in iraq was repeatedly suspected. the world community reacted to this. the latvian soldiers had not used depleted uranium ammunition. however, for several months in latvia, i was held politically responsible for this event as a coalition minister. unfortunately, as a coalition minister, i was not informed of its use. this is unacceptable! the european union member states not only have to seriously assess the need for this type of ammunition in their arsenal. the european union must ensure that member states exchange information on the possible use of depleted uranium in operations. thank you for your attention.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and most of my colleagues for the really liberal approach to the electricity market, which together with energy efficiency measures will actually allow us to reduce prices in the future. the two theses property separation and transmission are and will remain the basic model for truly decentralised generation and the guarantor of access to the electricity networks produced from renewable resources. and i also have another dream from this package, that finally a single european electricity grid will be created and the baltic states will also be part of this electricity supply network association, in which we have endless obstacles both inside and outside the european union. thank you.
you guys! the commissioner's speech suggests that parliament's resolution is an excellent example of political correctness; perhaps even a sort of homage to the new russian president medvedev. however, we will still keep in mind that putin president and putin prime minister are the same person who implements the "snatch and run" policy directly against the eu member states. and it is in such a situation that the success of the partnership agreement is crucial. the european union must not show weakness. the negotiations must demonstrate the unity and solidarity of the member states as a force. reducing the current inconsistency in russia and promoting integrated markets and free access to infrastructure and investment in russia. russia should be asked to provide the requirements of the world trade organisation. strengthen the european union's common position on strategic issues with regard to non-democratic regimes. the european union must demonstrate that it remains a citadel of democracy and common values.
my fellow citizens! the russian foreign ministry has developed a comprehensive strategy to use its citizens in the european union, especially in the baltic states, to strengthen its political and economic influence. president medvedev has just signed an order revoking entry visas to russian citizens of latvian and estonian nationality, effectively recognizing them as his own. as a result, the minor who needs only a little knowledge of the local language to obtain citizenship enjoys much greater privileges than citizens and has less incentive to acquire citizenship. such an act as well as the call for them to be granted the right to vote in local elections constitutes a major obstacle to the integration of persons with disabilities. russia's so-called controlled democracy is manifested in increasing restrictions on freedom of the press, speech and assembly. the russian pro-democracy activists both in the human rights committee and during the visit to moscow asked for more of our support. however, the pragmatism of the resolution has made us forget our principles, even though virtually all economic growth in russia is based on our payments for energy resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as regards the draft budget for 2009 prepared by the european commission, it should first be noted that the total amount of commitment appropriations increased to eur 134.4 billion, or 3.1%. at the same time, payment appropriations decreased by 3.3%, with the most rapid decrease of 14% in payment appropriations for eu cohesion policy. it is understood that the reduction in payment appropriations for eu cohesion policy is linked to lingering programming problems that prevent member states from starting to draw full benefit from eu funds. however, the european commission should focus more on the successful start of the mobilisation of funds and the reduction of administrative burden than on the reduction of the appropriations for the mechanical payments. i believe that this issue will be seriously considered again at the coordination meeting. as regards title 4 of the eu budget the eu as a global partner, it is clear that the amount proposed by the european commission is insufficient. it is necessary to revise the draft budget for section 4 in the light of the eu's commitments in kosovo, palestine and elsewhere, and to arrive at realistic figures. as regards the eu's new priorities eu common energy policy and the fight against climate change the current eu budget allocation for these objectives is clearly insufficient. while it is true that major changes to the structure of the eu budget will only be possible in the context of the medium-term review of the eu financial perspective, some changes can be introduced more quickly, for example by allowing the new member states to allocate a larger share of eu funds to energy efficiency objectives and home heating programmes. finally, on institutional matters, the 2009 budgetary procedure was opened on the assumption that the treaty of lisbon would enter into force next year. the current situation with the lisbon treaty is not so clear and it is important to agree on the procedural nuances it will bring to the work of the european union institutions on the european union budget. thank you for your attention.
for the ppe-de group thank you, mr president. as regards this project and mr libicki's report, i would like to note that there are three main aspects to be taken into account in this project. the first is the economic aspect. and it's clear that energy resources are needed both for germany and for europe, and from this point of view, this pipeline from russia is needed because russia has these gas resources. the second is the political aspect. how this project was prepared - we all know that he had such a big political background, before the elections, without consulting with countries that could be affected both economically and environmentally. secondly, as we know, the european union's energy strategy provides for interconnection of energy lines. and there is nothing of that kind here, so it does not really fit in with the european union's strategy for energy solidarity, energy security, which we have already accepted. and thirdly, there is the environmental aspect, which is the specific subject of mr libicki's report. as we know, according to a report by the world environment fund, seven of the ten most polluted places in the world's oceans are in the baltic sea. from this point of view, i think there's very little discussion - i admit, of course, that the companies that are doing this project have been calculating and discussing - but there's no public discussion of the second alternative - putting this gas line on the ground. consequently, it would also be much easier to solve the connectivity problem, and in fact the two aspects environmental and political strategic would be excluded. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group madam president, the honourable presidency, the honourable commissioner! i would like to begin by thanking mr liese as rapporteur for the good cooperation with the council which has led to this good compromise. i'm just going to talk about two things. one thing that is certainly a success is that from 2012 allowance trading will start across the whole sector, including third-country airlines flying into the european union. but i would also like to highlight this special 3% quota, which provides additional job opportunities for new and very fast-growing companies in the european union with an average growth rate of over 18% over four years. i think it will give them the ability to compete in those markets and also put a cap on each of these companies of one million units. so what a great success, what a great compromise! thank you.
thank you, madam chairman. the inclusion of aviation in the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is a logical step. of all the permits, 85% will be distributed free of charge, but in the end the polluter pays. it gives us the opportunity to tackle climate change. we have a better chance of preserving the quality of life in europe. i am very grateful to mr liese, the rapporteur, with whom we have found a great solution for a special reserve for fast-growing airlines. latvia's accession to the european union has made our country one of the fastest growing in the world, and i am also proud of our national airline airbaltic, which has grown by as much as 50% in recent years. the european parliament is developing a quality environmental policy which also covers a responsible transport policy. of course, this will also affect the european tourism industry. i am convinced that responsible tourism can provide a much better quality of life. responsible and quality tourism is the cornerstone of european tourism policy, an economic engine that does much less damage to the environment, infrastructure and culture. the adoption of the aviation ets directive is of course undermining the 'holy cow' status of the aviation industry and, most directly, of national airlines. but maybe it's about time. once again, i thank mr liese and urge you to support his report, the compromise amendment block 1 and the special 3% reserve for new entrants and fast-growing companies. on behalf of the adults, thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to congratulate both commissioner piebalgs and rapporteur larousse on the serious step they have taken towards liberalising the gas market. although it's not ideal. the problem i see is the same as the one the previous speaker spoke about in the so-called gas market islands in europe - the baltic states and finland. i am also not convinced by the agreement reached in the council on 6 july that, as long as there are no other links in these countries, the existing owners, mainly gazprom and its associated companies, should not have to share their property rights. in this case, i see a bit of an egg-and-chicken issue, because it is very unlikely that new connections will be made if there is no prior agreement and complete clarity about the access to existing networks. as it is possible that a certain deadline with the introduction of an independent transmission operator also in these monopoly situations should be used here.
thank you, chairman. this is the period when the european union must respond to the increase in gas prices by liberalising the market, which is the only instrument to correctly reflect the relationship between supply and demand. unfortunately, the european vertical and the influence of energy companies politically integrated at the national level in europe on the energy sector remains considerable. i would therefore like to commend the committee responsible for this parliament for its efforts to move the reforms towards market liberalisation. however, commissioner piebalgs is right in saying that the division of ownership must be given a chance. this is all the more so because the seven member states of the european union have done so. the council of the european union has provided for derogations from the directive for small, isolated gas markets. at least the country i represent in the european parliament, latvia, cannot speak of complete isolation, as it has a common gas market with two other eu member states and a gas storage facility that supplies the region. these are sufficient prerequisites for the creation of market elements in the region. i therefore call for the council's proposals in this direction, at least not for the three baltic states, to be rejected by granting derogations from the directive. they must be prepared for integration into the gas market of the european union.
my fellow citizens! the enlargement of the european union has produced positive results and it is therefore essential to create the conditions for their development. our institutions and governments must inform the public honestly and fully about both the benefits and the risks of enlargement. citizens should be confident that after enlargement they will not have to fear the possibility of preserving and developing their own language, culture, beliefs and traditions, that their well-being and values will not be threatened. if indigenous peoples feel at home in their own country, there will be less fear of an influx of immigrants and a more positive attitude towards the enlargement process as a whole. citizens need to be heard, and dialogue needs to be established. i support the various options for cooperation with the prospective member states. this is not only a fairer approach to the european union's capacity for integration, which the report has successfully defined, but also a clear roadmap for our partners. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, on behalf of the verts/ale group i would like to thank to thank ms ludford for the excellent cooperation she demonstrated, as usual. nevertheless, a number of principal points make us very anxious. we fully agree with the european data protection supervisor that using biometrics in information systems is never an insignificant choice, especially when the system in question concerns such a huge number of individuals. therefore, in our opinion the vis regulation itself would be a more appropriate place to include provisions specifying both general rules and exceptions. also the age under which the children are exempted from the obligation to provide fingerprints raises many questions, as we have heard. here we thank the rapporteur and other colleagues for the sensible decision to change it from 6 to 12. however, the scientific literature does not present evidence that fingerprinting of children below the age of 14 can provide for reliable identification. the second problem is the outsourcing of visa applications. here we need to provide for the necessary safeguards to ensure data protection compliance. also, in this respect the rapporteur has managed to achieve significant progress if we compare the initial text of the commission with the text suggested now. nevertheless, our group strongly opposes the extensive introduction of biometrics. we believe that it has crucial implications for data security and for fundamental rights without highlighting any significant gains. also, recent events in italy clearly show how easily the use of fingerprinting can become the abuse of power. to sum up, we really appreciate the rapporteur’s efforts and her courage in order to achieve the best results. nevertheless, the verts/ale group is very reluctant to accept any use of biometrics in the eu until its necessity is proven beyond reasonable doubt. therefore we cannot vote in favour of the report.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr brejc for his excellent report. we appreciate his point that consulting the vis using the visa sticker number in combination with the verification of fingerprints will create a lot of problems. therefore we welcome the introduction of a derogation in exceptional cases to consult the vis without verification of fingerprints. nevertheless, in our opinion, the report is not as ambitious as it should be. the derogation should instead be a general rule. we suggest that the vis should be consulted in exceptional cases when there are doubts regarding identity. it is well known that the verts/ale group strongly opposes the extensive introduction of biometrics until its necessity is proved beyond reasonable doubt. we believe that it has crucial implications for personal data security and for fundamental rights. therefore we cannot vote in favour of the regulation at this time.
my fellow citizens! today's final meeting of the g8 focuses on providing aid to georgia. it is necessary, but russia also has an obligation to contribute financially to the reconstruction of georgia. what is left for the european union to do to properly assess russia's role in what happened and to act to prevent a repeat of this? first of all, it must be admitted that this was a planned russian aggression, which began with systematic provocations against georgia over many months. if the russian aggression and recognition of the independence of the separatist regions do not receive an adequate response, then it will be a clear signal that the same can be done further. after all, there are many russian citizens in the european union countries who are ready to defend themselves. there are many things that russia needs from us, but we are systematically losing the initiative. first, the visa facilitation agreement with russia should be frozen. it should be concluded at the same time as georgia. secondly, until russia has fully liberated the occupied territories, the partnership and cooperation agreement must be suspended. thirdly, the replacement of the so-called russian peacekeepers by international peacekeepers must be achieved, while respecting the territorial integrity of georgia. i also propose to call on the international olympic committee to re-open the bidding process for the 2014 winter games, as hosting them in an authoritarian state only creates problems. we must not be afraid of the so-called breakdown of the dialogue. at this point, the dialogue has become a unilateral bidding on our part and a violation of the rules on russia's part. it must be understood that only strong action can make russia choose a position worthy of a 21st century state. russia is just one country. it's not special.
mr president, following on from my colleagues i would like to speak about the fight against discrimination. first of all i would like to thank the commission for its courage in coming with a horizontal approach in the draft directive on equal treatment outside the workplace. we have to take into account that some member states keep blocking the adoption of this necessary document. nevertheless, there is room for the european parliament to make improvements. i do not understand why there is an opt-out for private persons as regards supply of goods and services. the existing race directive does not include such an opt-out. unfortunately, multiple discrimination is also not appropriately addressed in this draft, so i hope that we will all work on this directive further.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president. i would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs of the electronic communications package for their work, from the organisation of the hearings to the preparation of the reports. i would also like to thank commissioner reding for the safe and active operation of electronic communications, both for the roaming and for this package. at the same time, i am not convinced that the improvements made by the various committees in the projects submitted by the commission will lead to better use of resources, competition in the single market of the european union and efficiency for consumers. just a few arguments. first, it is possible that the brt, a common structure of national regulators, will be a more democratic regulatory structure than the commission's proposed authority, but it may be that the brt will operate on the worst of cooperative principles and weaken the commission's ability to take regulatory decisions. the second example of a split of functional telecommunications companies, separating access to networks from other retail products, was a bold proposal by the commission. it seems that this partitioning requirement will never be applied in many markets as an exceptional measure by the national regulator. it is no secret that the ability of regulators in smaller eu countries to take such exceptional measures against large companies will be very limited, so i am not sure that this time parliament will make a step forward in strengthening the single european market compared to the european commission's proposal.
i would like to commend mrs flautre for her efforts to strengthen the capacity of the european union to act and to build its authority. there is no doubt that the sanctions should be applied flexibly, but the rapporteur also points out the inadmissibility of double standards. the inconsistency threatens the credibility of european sanctions, policies. the european union compromises itself when it imposes and violates sanctions regimes, as in the case of mugabe. the european union often treats third countries differently. there are consequences. the eu's permissive stance on georgia has caused a real explosion of enthusiasm in russia. he believes that military aggression is the real instrument for the protection of human rights. of course, there are different values in the world. the lack of transparency of the cap is litmus paper for the fact that the eu is being driven by business interests. pragmatically, it should be. unfortunately, it increases the sense of impunity of certain superpowers, the awareness that international law can be violated. today's double standards will create more problems in the future.
on behalf of the uen group - mr minister, commissioner, i have to go. first of all, i would like to commend my colleagues, all the rapporteurs of this package, for standing together in this approach to this very important piece of legislation for the maritime sector. at the same time, i would like to express our group's concern about two positions in mrs laszlo's report on port state control. firstly, we consider that, with regard to small countries with small fleets, point 13 of the common position recycle was much better formulated than in the version drawn up by the current parliamentary committee, and that member states should, in the context of the paris mou, endeavour to revise the method for determining the flag countries in white, purple and black lists to ensure that it is equitable also for countries with small fleets. consequently, if the only approach is a mathematical one, it is very difficult for a country with a small fleet with a few ships to get out of the grey area, because what is the motivation for ships to go grey in the fleet of the list if they cannot improve this mathematical proportion in this case, and i think that in the common position the council had a much more balanced position vis-à-vis the member states of the european union with a small fleet. the same applies to the definitive entry ban, which, however, had to be separated into the grey and black list countries. the second point is that, in my view, the council's common position also took a more balanced view of the fact that there may be exceptions where inspections cannot be carried out, particularly if they are carried out at night, for a short period of time, even very far from the coast, and it is not possible to carry out a quality inspection in countries with harsh winters and northern seas. i would therefore urge that the council's common position on this matter be given greater support in this case.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like first of all to thank mr coelho for his customary productive work on the reports concerning transition to sis ii. the reports cover mainly technical things, but i would like to look at sis ii from a broader perspective. firstly, i would like to acknowledge the fact that the portuguese presidency provided an opportunity for the 10 new member states to join the old version of sis. otherwise, the new member states, including my own, would have had to wait at least until september 2009 – in other words, almost two more years. on the other hand, ‘late’ does not necessarily mean ‘bad’. sis ii will operate under two pillars. nevertheless, we still do not have a legally binding framework decision on data protection within the third pillar. as sis ii introduces the processing of biometric data, the issue of data protection remains largely unresolved. i would like to stress that my political group is extremely cautious where biometrics is concerned. maybe we really have to wait for a solid legal background for data protection before we start using sis ii. another field where the operation of sis might be useful is the entry bans introduced by the member states for third-country nationals. according to the schengen convention, national law is applicable when a person seeks the deletion of an alert concerning him or her. in this respect, the regulation on sis ii provides for better procedural guarantees at european level. to sum up, in some fields sis ii gives us a better europe. nevertheless, we will have to continue working on various significant flaws. if we have to wait in order to get more guarantees, perhaps we should be prepared to wait.
i think the situation in the financial markets is characterised by a common thesis: "the fun is over, they're gone". some people are paying for the broken interior, but of course there are some countries and companies that are benefiting from this pessimistic situation. in other words, there are a number of energy-rich and highly developed countries and companies that are moving the needle in their direction, which will inevitably change the center of political influence and the balance of power in the world. the most vulnerable in europe, in my view, in this situation are the small, new member states of the european union. wrong structural and fiscal policies in a time of high economic growth now pose clear economic and social threats in several of these countries, including my own country, latvia. the large amount of private borrowing by residents from euro area banks in euro, the large share of non-resident money in the banking sector, the rapid 'catching up' of the european average wage in euro terms may lead to the conclusion that the national currency is being revalued. and then the long-term repayment to euro area financial institutions can become a new burden for citizens and businesses in these member states. and if the corridor for exchanging national currencies against the euro is widened, already high inflation could gain new impetus and further delay the entry of new member states into the euro area. if the total amount of private loans in interest payments alone at the bank is double the gdp, then the citizens of these countries will not be optimistic and will rather generate strong political pessimism, including towards the european union as such, with all the consequences for parliament in the politically new member states.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, for your time. often, the pretended efforts to safeguard labour standards and ensure equal working conditions are in reality masked by protectionism and blatant restrictions on free, fair competition. the individual's salary should depend on his or her productivity and efficiency, and not on the social partners' agreement. this is currently at the expense of all actors in the eu internal market, as the eu is losing its competitiveness on world markets. the appropriations directive does not need to be amended to apply it to the social systems of certain member states. the european union has a fundamental duty to ensure that entrepreneurs from old and new countries have equal rights to operate in the internal market for services. and if we don't like the decisions of the european court of justice, then we change the laws. i don't know if that's what makes the european union more understandable to its citizens.
mr president, i speak today not only as a representative of my political group and a member of the eu-russia delegation but also as the only native russian-speaking member of this parliament. some politicians forget that russia is actually europe’s biggest country by population and russian speakers are the european union’s biggest minority group – up to 10 million people. unfortunately, many of those who speak of russia’s resources think simply of raw materials and forget the human dimension. we must remember that people are the basis for eu-russia relations. the european union’s russian speakers favour relations between the eu and russia based on a strategic partnership. we support not just an eu-russia common market, as president sarkozy said today, but also the freer movement of people. we support human rights – also mentioned by mr sarkozy – but we oppose the double standards whereby the european union’s institutions turn a blind eye to the violations of the rights of russian speakers in the baltic states.
competitors or partners, a cheating player or a dependent loner? i'm talking about the relationship between western democracy and russian autocracy. it's like a game of cat and mouse. ironically, two months after the military violence in georgia, dmitry medvedev is proposing a new european security treaty. mr. sarkozy is very cautious, he doesn't see that russia has increased its military presence in south ossetia and abkhazia. is there a basis for trust in russia? the kosovo process, the georgian war could have been more instructive. which european leaders are optimistic? russia will exploit the west's trust, seeking revenge against the west wherever possible. the risk is the declared russian policy on foreigners in ossetia, abkhazia, ukraine; there is a battle in the information space. not surprisingly, the russian people and their mass media, including in the baltic states, supported the russian invasion of georgia. there should be no rush to resume full-scale negotiations with russia at this time. first, russia must implement the peace plan in the caucasus!
my fellow citizens! the man-made famine in ukraine, or the holodomor, is one of the greatest crimes against humanity in the history of the world. by all criteria, it meets the definition of genocide. firstly, it is ethnic in nature, since it was directed against the rebellious ukrainian people, who had repeatedly shown their opposition to russification. secondly, it was also a social genocide against the wealthy ukrainian peasants, although the famine destroyed all regardless of their wealth. this crime was utterly cynical. stalin's totalitarian communist regime found the easiest way to exterminate the masses. slow, terrible famine in ukraine killed millions. documentary evidence is now available that even the nazis traveled to moscow in the 1930's to learn how to organize mass murder. at that time, decisions on food confiscation were made in moscow. and the decisions of the 2006 gas war between ukraine and russia were again made in moscow. in its foreign policy, modern russia clearly states that it is fighting for its position in the world. historians in moscow have no qualms about claiming that the man-made famine in ukraine was a fiction. let us hope that ukraine will not be the next country after georgia to be subjected to brutal aggression by russia. we must make it clear that what happened in ukraine was genocide. my country, latvia, like many others, has already done this in the person of its parliament. i would like to emphasize once again that the crimes of totalitarian communism must be judged as grave as those committed by nazism. we need another nuremberg because innocent victims are victims, no matter who is guilty of the crime. although our peoples have different experiences, a common understanding of the events of history is essential for the european union. it is, in fact, the foundation of our common future. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president, mr vice-president. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stockman, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the compromise reached with the council on the second reading. i also welcome this agreement on the scope of the directive, as it will affect each member state by regulating at least its main airport. i hope that after two years of implementation of this directive, it will no longer be possible in the european union to repeat such legally incomprehensible court decisions as the recently announced decision of the lithuanian regional court against the latvian airline and its main airport. by this decision, a court of one member state seizes not only the airport of another state but also the assets of an airline of another state in another member state. the court's decision is based on undisguised discrimination in airport charges at latvia's main airport. i very much hope that this directive will prevent the possibility of such legally ambiguous interpretations in the future, which have a negative impact on the airline business. thank you.
the author. - mr president, commission representative, representative of the presidency! first, i want to say that i was the minister of defense of my country for almost six years, in the period before the creation of nato. so i can say that i understand very well what it means for a country to take care of its own defence, its own weapons and arsenals. however, i have supported, both personally and on behalf of the uen group, all the measures taken by the european parliament, including this question of banning cluster munitions. because i think everything has been said here, and it's clear to everyone that this is not a precision-guided munition, and that it's mostly, as we've seen, hitting civilians and killing children. i would therefore like to say that the european parliament and i believe that the member states of the european union must reach a common position and that joint efforts should be made to ban these munitions. on the other hand, i would also like to suggest that this requirement be applied in bilateral negotiations with countries such as russia, the united states and china, whose weapons are mainly of this type. i think this is very important because we remember that during the very recent war between georgia and russia, unfortunately, russia used this type of cluster munition against georgian civilians. and it proves that the arguments for keeping this ammunition in service - that is, the arguments that it is a means of defence - do not stand up to criticism. unfortunately, as we see, this device is being used in other countries as a means of attack, that is, against civilians.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president. europe's people are ageing! if these trends continue, natural population growth may become negative. this is already the case in most member states. the ratio of the working population to the retired population is declining in all member states. low fertility combined with longer life expectancy and immigration are putting pressure on pensions, healthcare and social services. however, there are also some member states that have succeeded in reversing europe's negative demographic trends. they have achieved a work-life balance that allows parents to raise their children without sacrificing their careers and to reap the economic and social benefits that go with it. there is no doubt that the main economic, social and cultural solutions to tackling population ageing will have to be sought in the member states. but there are also tasks to be done at the level of the european union. the labour market in the european union still holds huge reserves. the free movement of labour must not be restricted within the internal market. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution from industrial sources. the realisation of these two fundamental freedoms would help to finance the economic losses caused by the demographic process. and of course, we should promote non-discriminatory treatment of gender and age. thank you.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years have passed since the discovery of hiv. today, at a time when the epidemic has claimed more than 25 million lives, it is very important that the european union reaffirm its commitment to combating the scourge of the global pandemic of hiv/aids. universal access to prevention, screening, early treatment and support in this area is essential, as the european parliament, your assembly, rightly underlined in its resolution of 24 april 2007. there is an urgent need to accelerate the development and implementation of prevention, information, education and awareness-raising campaigns, as well as investment in research and development of new prevention and testing strategies, which must regularly adapt to changes in the pandemic. in particular, it is essential to improve early detection and treatment and the availability of antiretroviral therapeutics at an affordable cost. indeed, when the diagnosis is made too late or when the disease-related immunodepression is too advanced, patients are at increased risk of death during the four years following diagnosis. to improve early detection, it appears necessary to use new strategies and tools, such as rapid tests. it would be particularly interesting to extend the test proposal by making it general, subject, of course, to the patient's agreement. it should be remembered that these rapid tests can be carried out outside a medical laboratory and that the results can be communicated to patients within a relatively short time. in order to encourage people living with hiv/aids to undergo early detection, it is also essential to overcome barriers to discrimination. the fear of being stigmatised if a positive test result is obtained can hinder access to early detection. the european union must therefore speak out clearly and consistently against any form of discrimination against people living with hiv worldwide. this is a strong conviction, especially that of president sarkozy and minister bernard kouchner, who have drawn the attention of the united nations to this point. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. such a practice would discourage individuals from seeking testing or, if necessary, access to care, which is detrimental both individually and collectively. in conclusion, i would like to make two comments. the first is that our common goal is that people who test positive should be able to receive quality care, regardless of their origin, regardless of their nationality, their opinions, their age, their gender, their sexual orientation, their religion or any other status. the second observation is that in this context, international coordination is crucial to combating the pandemic. i would like to pay tribute to the eurohiv programme, which since 1984 has been widely disseminating data essential for a better understanding of hiv and aids to the who, unaids and the european centre for disease prevention and control. in order to make prevention, early detection and treatment accessible to all, to ensure that those infected are no longer stigmatised or discriminated against, and to ensure that countries in the south have genuine access to medicines, this cooperation with un agencies and regional agencies must be intensified. the european union must, more than ever, be mobilised in this fight.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would say to the honourable members and to minister jouyet that, as we approach world aids day on 1 december 2008, this plenary session provides a good opportunity to reflect on some significant achievements in combating hiv/aids and to focus on the serious challenges that lie ahead. this year’s nobel prize for medicine was awarded to two european researchers at the pasteur institute – professor françoise barré-sinoussi and professor luc montagnier, who were the first to isolate the human immunodeficiency virus back in 1983. that landmark discovery paved the way for many important developments and diagnostics, and the treatment of hiv infections, and allowed us to understand more about the pathogenesis of hiv infections and its devastating consequences. however, 25 years later we still do not have a cure for hiv/aids and still witness millions of new infections per year worldwide, including tens of thousands of new infections in europe. how can this happen? it is well known how hiv transmission can be effectively prevented. successful campaigns in the 1980s and the early 1990s have shown that awareness and knowledge are essential elements of prevention strategies against hiv infections. determined political leadership and civil responsibility are two further elementary prerequisites for successfully combating hiv/aids – as is an open and constructive partnership with the stakeholders. today’s plenary session is also an excellent time to reaffirm our political commitment – a time to be ambitious. i should add that i appreciate very much the european parliament’s commitment in keeping hiv/aids high on the political agenda. indeed, we recently had a very useful exchange of views on hiv/aids in a round-table meeting organised by vice-president miguel-angel martínez martínez and zita gurmai on the need for hiv testing and subsequent early ‘state of the art’ care and support. experts estimate that an average of 30% of people in europe infected with hiv are not aware of their status. that incredible figure carries two risks: first for the person concerned, since he or she may not receive treatment and care on time; and second for his or her partner(s), who may be exposed to the infection. so what can we as politicians do to address and overcome this situation? our common humanistic core values and a strong commitment to human values, solidarity and our position against discrimination must be the basis of all policies to fight hiv/aids, and should be the foundation for all activities in combating the disease. the european position and response is clear: we concentrate on prevention and raising awareness; we promote hiv testing and access to treatment and care for all in need; we fight for affordable medication; we oppose and fight any form of discrimination or stigmatisation; we seek to identify best practice and support civil society. in areas within our political responsibility we have to create the conditions for effective actions on the ground, serving both society and people living with hiv and aids. clearly we cannot be complacent. we have to keep up the momentum. the eu also looks beyond its borders to the devastating impact of hiv/aids in sub-saharan africa and other developing countries, which represent an exceptional challenge to social growth and development. eastern europe and central asia continue to experience the fastest growth of the epidemic in the world. in this context, we reaffirm our commitment to supporting partner countries in scaling-up towards universal access to hiv prevention, treatment, care and support. on behalf of the commission, i welcome the resolution on early diagnosis and early care of hiv/aids and fully endorse and support the principle of breaking down barriers to hiv testing, treatment and care. the commission further encourages people to use the possibility of hiv testing and reiterates to member states the need to establish testing centres that meet international standards and operate according to agreed principles. the commission is currently developing its second strategy on combating hiv/aids in the eu and also our near neighbourhood, which will further concentrate on prevention and will focus on the regions and groups most affected by the epidemics. however, what a successful prevention approach needs most of all is openness and tolerance on a political and societal level: openness to the realities of our lives today, of sexuality and behaviours; openness to means of harm reduction; openness to fight inequalities, discrimination and suppression; and openness to other cultures and habits. in facing up to the challenge of hiv/aids, the commission will continue to play its role to the full. i know that we have parliament’s support in this endeavour, and we treasure it highly. let us continue together the strong political momentum, together with the council, to ensure that we all live up to our responsibilities.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, ever since i had the honour of drafting the report on combating hiv/aids within the eu and neighbouring countries, i have been very committed to this issue, with all its implications and ramifications, of people living with hiv. one year ago in the framework of the conference ‘hiv in europe 2007’, participants developed a comprehensive call to action on measures how to effectively tackle hiv/aids in europe. some elements of this call are now also reflected in this joint motion for a resolution. the aim of this resolution is to contribute to the fight against hiv/aids on a political level. therefore it calls on the council and the commission to formulate a comprehensive strategy on hiv to promote early diagnosis, ensure early care and communicate the benefits of earlier care to all european citizens. it calls on the commission to commit substantial resources to deliver the above-mentioned strategy as well as asks member states to step up information and education campaigns on prevention, testing and treatment. i am aware that the commission is planning to bring forward a new communication on combating hiv in the eu and the neighbourhood and also that commissioner vassiliou confirmed her personal commitment to take further action in this field. to conclude, this situation needs to be urgently tackled.
my fellow citizens! first of all, i would like to thank the european commission for the economic recovery plan and express the hope that it will not support failed bankers, their profits, but will provide real support for business. our entrepreneurs may work under the most difficult conditions, because they are in the grip of a huge bureaucracy. and now, just as we are carrying out a health check on the common agricultural policy, we should also be carrying out a health check on directives and regulations, whether there are too many bureaucratic obstacles for our operators or whether the implementation of these regulations and directives in the member states has been too bureaucratic. it's the entrepreneurs who can get us out of this crisis. so, line by line, this health check. on climate change, i really supported this thesis on flexibility in waste policy, because, for example, my country has long since reached and exceeded the 20% level of renewable energy use. i would not like to see my country, which is in dire need of economic development, put up with any more obstacles.
thank you, mr president! following the council's agreement on the climate package, 2008 proved to be the most significant year in the fight against climate change since the adoption of the kyoto protocol in 2001. the adoption of the climate package also marks a shift towards new economic thinking, which will reduce the european union's dependence on imported energy resources and the economic and political risks associated with supply insecurity. the economic hard times we are experiencing are the times when we are ready to fundamentally break our current understanding and be most open to innovation. we welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached on sectors which will take time to adapt to the new conditions. it is true that additional aid is granted to countries which have reduced their co2 emissions by more than 20% since 1990. the presidency. the recent outcome of the european council can be seen as a success of the presidency, as can the active role of the presidency in the settlement of the russia-georgia conflict, unless the european union had ceded to russia the right of interpretation of the implementation of a treaty concluded by its own people. not all the old wounds the presidency has overcome. thank you.
thank you, mr president. first of all, i'd like to thank mr. c. turmes and everyone involved in the trialogue for the agreement reached. i think the compromise on the renewable energy directive is important because we have not deviated from the objectives and commitments that were expressed earlier, and this despite the financial and economic crisis, despite the fact that fossil fuel prices are falling in the short term. on transport, i really want to say that it's good that these sustainability criteria have been put forward and that a scheme to promote next generation biofuels has also been found, which i think is a good compromise for this crisis between food production and biofuels. finally, i am also pleased that the opinion of a small european country like latvia, which has a particularly high share of renewable resources and is already the highest in the european union, was heard that its target was reached and lowered, which shows confidence in europe's understanding of the situation of even small countries. thank you.
my fellow citizens! i think it's a great honor that the agreement on the climate change package was unanimous, because it's clear that we can only move forward effectively if there is consensus. first, i note that the compromise text contains a solution for those member states whose emissions have fallen by at least 20% between 1990 and 2005. however, the solution needs to be even bolder, because, for example, in the case of my country latvia , the reduction in 2005 compared to 1990 is already 57%, and the total funding available from auctions to implement the package has been significantly reduced. second, in order to achieve the 2020 target, an effective incentive system at european union level is needed to support businesses and individuals that use or deploy renewable energy sources. this could be done by covering part of the implementation costs. for member states that do not have sufficient budgetary resources, this task may otherwise prove impossible. the european commission should also do more to find ways of developing more efficient and cheaper renewable energy technologies. to improve the world's climate, these technologies must be made available at affordable prices...
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as regards the draft budget of the european union for 2009, i would like to emphasise that the most important thing in this budget is not what has been done but what has not yet been done. the draft eu budget for 2009 already provided for a 3% reduction in payment appropriations compared to this year, and the european commission has proposed further reductions in payment appropriations of €3.5 billion this year and €1.1 billion next year. the eu budget's payment cuts are not the most appropriate response to the financial and economic crisis. the measures provided for in the european economic stabilisation plan to simplify and accelerate the procedures for the structural funds, the cohesion fund and the rural development funds, to increase the advance payments from eu funds and the share of eu co-financing have not yet been reflected in the payment appropriations of the 2009 budget of the european union. however, it is precisely these measures and the extent to which they actually increase payments that will determine whether the budget for next year can be considered a successful response by the european union to the financial and economic crisis. i hope that the eu institutions will demonstrate their ability to respond quickly to challenges rather than getting bogged down in the usual bureaucracy. the european commission's proposal to allocate an additional €5 billion to boost the european union's competitiveness is generally welcomed. however, the source of funding the common agricultural policy funds is unclear. if there is already a surplus of €5 billion in the eu's common agricultural policy, why is the european commission not doing anything to ensure fair competition in the internal agricultural market and to at least partially offset the inadequate differences in the amount of direct payments to farmers in the different eu member states? thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr catania, for his best efforts to take into account amendments submitted by political groups. it was a very ambitious task and i hope that the report on fundamental rights within the eu will finally be adopted. for the future, my group believes that our aim, when preparing such reports, should be not only to mention problems but also to name and shame the member states where specific fundamental rights are violated. a letter to this effect signed by the co-chairs of the green group has recently been sent to the president of parliament. of course we can all guess which member state is concerned when one or other particular human rights violation is mentioned, but we believe that europeans must know for sure who is ignoring our crucial principle of respect for fundamental rights. with regard to the text, i deeply regret that some of my colleagues disregard the fact that not only civil and political rights matter. in my opinion, economic, social and cultural rights are equally important. a number of proposals by the green group have been included in the final text. these are the following: the protection of privacy when fighting terrorism; the need to ratify the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the charter for regional or minority languages; and the prohibition of discrimination concerning stateless persons. we also call on member states to ratify the united nations convention on disability and allow the united nations committee on the elimination of racial discrimination to examine individual cases. in my country, latvia, more than 350 000 so-called non-citizens, many of whom were born in the country, cannot vote even in local elections. unfortunately this problem was not addressed in the report, due to the principle of not mentioning individual member states. but i want to stress that refusing long-term residents the right to participate in political life at local level threatens social and political integration. therefore, granting voting rights to these people is absolutely essential.
my fellow citizens! the report, in its attempt to present a universal view, has been one-sided and unbalanced. this gives the impression that the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is bad, which is clearly a discrediting exaggeration and is beneficial for the third countries with which we have a human rights dialogue. there are no huge differences between countries in terms of minority and immigrant populations. article 45 falsely states that eastern european member states have a low number of immigrants. before the occupation of latvia, the latvian share in latvia was about 80%, but russian 8%. in the early 1990s, when the occupation ended, latvians were only 51%. much of the rest as a direct result of russification are so-called russian-speaking immigrants. those who do not want to integrate and acquire citizenship should not be granted the political right to vote. the proposal to guarantee the right of every minority to be educated and to speak in their mother tongue is contrary to the fundamental right to speak their own language in their own country. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. no amendments can improve this report. the only way out is to deny it. thank you.
