i would like to thank you for congratulating the countries that joined the euro area two weeks ago, malta and cyprus, bringing the number of countries using the euro as their currency to 15. this means that the majority of the member states of the european union today use the same currency. two days ago, during the celebrations in malta, the president of the council, the president of the commission and also the vice-president of the european parliament, mario mauro, who was present, all congratulated malta on the rapid progress it has made in just the last three years since joining the european union and on the smooth and smooth transition to the euro. in fact, although the dual circulation period runs until the end of this month, i can say that after only two weeks almost all transactions are already being made in the euro. the maltese and gozitan people are proud to have adopted the euro and to have taken another major step in the process of european unity.
in writing. it would be shortsighted not to mention the case of shaun attard, who crossed the maltese and gozitan border, in this debate on children's rights. this goat boy was taken from his father in a way that must have left a psychological effect on him. it may be that the laws are being observed in this case and that the european directives are being respected. however, there are serious doubts as to whether what is happening is really for the good of this child. i regret to say that from what i can see, the british authorities are making it difficult for the boy's father to have a proper hearing on this case. even the few contacts between the son and the father are fraught with pitfalls. i call for the law to be observed, for mario attard to be given a proper hearing and, moreover, for a serious consideration of what is best for shaun.
i wanted to make these two words and explain how i had managed to get the attention of the authorities in malta. i would draw attention to two particular cases. one, the case of that gozitan child, mr attard, who has hit the media in the last two years because of the way in which the father is being prejudiced from obtaining his paternity as his father's person and bringing this same child to reside in his country, gozitan. secondly, there was a recent criminal case of a thirteen-year-old girl and the authorities did not know where to send her; first she was sent to prison, then she was sent to a mental institution. this is a big mistake. thank you.
in writing. – the plan of action was targeting 20 % efficiency by 2020 is an ambitious plan but a necessary one. on the other hand, it is useless to set targets if there isn't a will to achieve them. for instance, out of a total of 21 actions scheduled for completion by 2007 only three were completely finalised. this is a dismal record. it is true that many others are in progress but nonetheless a percentage which is less than 15 % of completed projects is not something to be proud of. i am ashamed to say that in me country, malta, the issue has not been tackled seriously. in an island where the sun and wind exist in abundance one would have expected that full use would be made of these two elements. regarding solar energy very few private, commercial and public buildings make use of this alternative energy. wind energy was more popular in the past in agricultural areas. the government is intent on setting up offshore wind farms notwithstanding that the technology is not available for the depths of maltese waters. not only but it has made it known to a major developer, who waited to set up four wind mills generating energy, that the permission would not be given because of aesthetic reasons.
in writing. – the reasons for setting up this fund deserve our praise. the resources being funnelled into this fund are a joke. the key objectives of the fund should be the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energies, reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases and the improvement of access to energy services in the poorest countries, not to mention diversification of energy sources in the developing world. statistics (which are already outdated) indicate that 1.6 billion people do not have access to basic energy services. 2.4 billion people rely on traditional biomass for cooking and heating. the international energy agency estimates that by 2010 usd 241 billion will be needed to be invested into renewable energy generation. regarding developing countries, the estimate is at least usd 10 billion or eur 9 billion. the proposed budget for this fund under discussion is eur 80 million between 2007 and 2010, with eur 15 million in 2008 to kick-start the initiative. the figures speak for themselves. these resources are but a drop in the ocean of what is needed. the intentions are good but intentions with meagre funding do not correspond to serious initiatives.
i would also like to congratulate the new commissioner, ms vassiliou. madam president, the decision we are taking tomorrow to approve a grant of almost eur700 000 from the globalisation fund for 675 maltese workers who lost their jobs with vf and bortex companies in malta is a show of solidarity and solidarity is a key pillar of the european union. if the european union means anything, it means this; the european union is there to facilitate challenges, to help us exploit them and to mitigate the negative impact that may result from them. madam president, the workers of vf and bortex today know better what solidarity means and what the european union means, and i greet them from here.
member of the commission. - i listened with interest to the debate, and of course the report itself is full of ideas, and as the committee chair, mrs batzeli, said, it is full of ideas for the commission, for the member states, but also for the world of culture and the cultural creative industries. i think the main theme or the goal is to bring these contexts into the picture, into the spotlight, and create a conducive environment for creativity, for innovation, for culture as such, for the place of culture in our societies, in our relationships. just a few notes. economics is a necessity, but culture gives meaning to our relationships, our identity, defines values and these bind us to the community. so in that, i would like to respond to those who are concerned that now somehow everything is being economized or measured by money. no, culture is more than money, but it's important to see culture as a creative contribution, as something that literally brings both jobs and economic development, and when culture is absent, it's often not only the economy that goes down, but also politics, and society. so this has a lot of implications. i am therefore pleased that the speeches already provide a strong boost to creativity and innovation, which is the european commission's proposal for 2009. the formal proposal itself is already in parliament and i hope that the legislative procedure will help to adopt and organise the european year of creativity and innovation relatively quickly. one last note the pirate or the fight against piracy. i believe, as do many here, that we need to develop access to culture, the availability of culture, the possibilities for communication and culture, and on the other hand, protect property rights, fight against abuse, against what often destroys smaller and weaker firms. and that's the position of the european commission one answer is education, raising awareness of the importance of protecting property rights and not abusing freedom. the second part is to invite and organise all the stakeholders or those responsible for this agenda to work together and to each do their part to ensure that we can protect property rights while developing the availability of electronic networks for new communications. this is what we have finally postulated for the first time in the telecom package of reforms for electronic communications networks and services recently, and this is also the position of the european commission on the subject of fighting piracy, of course among others, and of course there is a lot that the member states themselves have to do. so, that's it for me, thank you very much, and i look forward to working with you again.
in writing. – culture and creativity play a central role in promoting european citizenship. both these items, culture and creativity, must be taken into consideration in future policies of the eu. an analysis of the economy of culture in europe was sponsored by the commission and important data has emerged. it transpires that culture taken in a general sense makes a substantial contribution to the economy indeed much more than originally estimated. five years ago it was assessed that the cultural sectors contributed 2.6% of the eu gdp. in 2004 3.1% of the eu active population was working in this sector. the relationship between cultural activities and the economy in malta and gozo can be assessed by a recent 2007 study made by the national statistics office involving a total of 5086 participants enrolled in 34 dance schools. these dance schools employed 109 persons and generated a financial surplus of nearly 400 000 euro. total income surpassed 1 million euros. this is only one example proving the importance of cultural activities for the economy.
in writing. – today we are fortunate that law enforcement agencies have tools at their disposal such as dna data, automated fingerprint identification and vehicle registration data. i am all in favour of having a common database of all the necessary tools to fight terrorism and cross-border crime. it is a fact that data protection is essential but in the fight against terrorism and international crime it is secondary. not only am i in favour of sharing databases but i am also in favour of having compulsory national databases. the majority of european citizens and residents are law abiding and should not fear having their data, be it dna and fingerprinting, available on a common european database. malta is a neutral state but where terror is concerned we are not neutral. the targeting of innocent civilians can never be justified. terror is one of the most hideous crimes at par with genocide and war crimes. at present the norm is that terrorists are tried in national courts. the time has come to consider an international judicial structure specifically for trying terrorists.
in writing. failure to act or delay in acting in the field of organ donation costs lives that can be saved. as europeans we have much to learn from each other. moreover, countries with a tradition and infrastructure in this area can help other countries, such as malta, which may lack critical mass, especially in cases of rare conditions. in the days that followed the maltese and gaulish people were drawn to the case of jamie zammit's childhood. jamie is having trouble finding a donor to save him from the condition of fanconi anaemia because in malta there is currently no donor registry for bone marrow transplant. the maltese government has now announced that it will close this register. this is good news. the establishment of this register requires the specialised hla typing procedure which is not yet in place in malta and which needs to be introduced in other countries in the long term. i call for all the necessary assistance to be given to malta in a european sense of solidarity, especially until the system is established at home, so that as many innocent lives as possible can be saved.
thank you mr president. visa waiver for travel to the united states is a very important priority for our citizens and we would be wrong to think that it is not. it is an important priority because visa-free travel is easier and it is also cheaper - for travellers. and it is also important because we cannot continue to be in the unfair situation where half the countries of the european union do not need a visa while the other half need a visa to travel to the united states. you have to be in a position to need a visa to go to the united states to really appreciate how important it is to get it. therefore, any effort, from whatever source, to lift the visa is a good, positive and supportive effort, not a critical one. the important thing is not to get the visa for the 12 countries that still need it. the important thing is to remove it. the child's play between the commission and the member states as to who has the competence to negotiate with the united states must therefore be stopped. beyond the legalisms there is one reality - the reality is that the us has longstanding and strong ties on a bilateral basis with the member countries and it is obvious that it will talk to them directly. on the other hand it is also clear that the commission has a role, yes it has a role to continue to increase the pressure in the right direction. but at the same time everyone knows that the us has so far preferred to talk to individual countries, and in fact the commission alone has not yet arrived. the important thing is not to argue about who has the right to negotiate, because that would be losing and dividing us instead of strengthening us. so i am in favour of the 'twin track approach', the important thing is that we support each other to get visa abolition, to get it done today before tomorrow and to get it done for all citizens of the european union.
the chairman of the council. − let me stress at the outset that the challenges of migration require an integrated approach. the european union must develop an effective migration policy and legislation, while continuing its efforts to combat illegal migration. action is needed both at the level of the european union among member states and in cooperation with third countries. one of the most important elements in the fight against illegal immigration is the effective control of the european union's external borders. the recent integration of nine member states into the schengen area is certainly a major achievement in this area. following their entry into the schengen area, the slovenian presidency is working to establish the second generation schengen information system, the so-called sis 2, as soon as possible. this is one of the priority projects of the european union at this time. all necessary activities should be carried out in such a way that the transition from the first to the second generation of the schengen information system is completed by september 2009 at the latest. in response to frequent incidents in the mediterranean sea and on the north african coast, the commission and some member states proposed some initiatives to better manage illegal migration as early as 2007. as part of these efforts, the slovenian presidency hosted a ministerial conference on the future challenges of managing the european union's external borders in march this year. the conference held the first discussion of the three commission communications presented in february. the participants discussed the evaluation and further development of frontex, and the next steps in the management of the european union's external borders. they agreed that border controls should be strengthened in the future and that reliable identification of persons should be possible. in parallel, we must work towards the openness and accessibility of the european union. the ministers also discussed the proposal to set up a european border control system, known as eurosur. the presidency is already preparing further guidelines in this area to be considered by the justice and home affairs council at its june meeting. the directive on common standards and procedures for returning persons residing illegally in the territory of the member states of the european union, the so-called return directive, will also contribute to making the fight against illegal migration more effective. the presidency has already started a second round of negotiations with the european parliament, which have been very constructive. we believe that, with joint efforts, we could have succeeded in adopting this directive at first reading. as regards the proposal for a directive on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals, the council is awaiting amendments from the european parliament. the visa policy is also an integral part of the development of a comprehensive migration policy. in this area, the slovenian presidency made progress in two very important files, namely the amendments to the common consular instructions and the visa code. we want to cooperate constructively with the european parliament in the further work on both dossiers. in the field of asylum, practical cooperation between member states was discussed at the informal council meeting in january and relevant decisions were adopted by the council this month. as i said in the introduction, a holistic view of migration policy is needed to manage and combat illegal migration. the fight against illegal immigration also requires cooperation with countries of origin and transit. it also requires addressing the causes of migration, i.e. promoting the development of countries of origin. the global approach adopted by the european council in december 2005 aims to address migration policy in a holistic manner and to strengthen and deepen international cooperation, in particular with and partnerships with countries of origin and transit. a number of activities are currently under way under this global approach. these focus mainly on the most critical regions, mainly africa and the eastern and south-eastern regions bordering the european union.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the main attraction for illegal immigration today is illegal work. migrants will continue to come to europe as long as they believe that the financial benefits they can get from illegal work outweigh the risks of being arrested by european law enforcement agencies. it is necessary to have a real common will at european level to implement an effective strategy to combat illegal work. it is really the tool to be favoured in the context of this strategy which depends on us, the member states and the common political will. it is in this context that the commission's proposal to sanction employers of third-country nationals staying illegally in the european union, which is currently being considered by this parliament and the council, comes into play. the proposal aims to ensure that all member states adopt and effectively apply similar preventive measures and sanctions to combat illegal work. i would encourage parliament to continue its examination of this proposal so that we can have a community instrument obliging the member states to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the rule of law and legality are respected throughout the european union. that said, i would also not like to underestimate the challenges posed by illegal immigration across the external borders of the european union. it is very likely that this year too many people from the african continent will be tempted to enter the european union by sea. individuals, small groups and even criminal organizations will be exploited by demanding large sums of money to bring them to europe. a major effort was made at european level to provide member states with the necessary financial support in 2008. the budget of the frontex agency almost doubled in 2008 compared to 2007. this year it amounts to €70 million, of which more than €31 million will be used for operations at the eu's maritime borders. as regards operations in these high risk areas, frontex has organised four large-scale operations, namely poseidon, hermes, nautilus and hera. information on the exact dates, the exact durations of these operations, is not yet public. however, these operations will take longer than in 2007 due to the increase in financial resources. it is also important to emphasise that the terms and conditions of use of the technical equipment contained in the 'central record of available technical equipment' (crate) have been agreed between the member states and frontex. at present, 18 aircraft, 20 helicopters and 105 vessels are being made available by the member states on a voluntary basis. frontex, for its part, provides the human resources needed to help the member states prepare and evaluate maritime operations. the commission recommended in its evaluation report on frontex that both the potential of the crate base and the commitments made by the member states be fully respected and used, in order to ensure the availability of the equipment necessary for operations at the maritime borders. frontex must report regularly to the european institutions on the actual use of the equipment and its adequacy. the commission is also invited to inform the institutions of a future mechanism which would further guarantee the availability of equipment offered by the member states. the agency should also increase the potential of the crate base by acquiring or leasing technical equipment itself. through these efforts, the member states and frontex are helping to reduce, as far as possible, the number of people who disappear at sea while trying to reach europe on board unseaworthy vessels. the commission therefore welcomes the bilateral agreement between spain and the west african states and the contacts between italy and malta with libya. contacts with libya have not produced the expected result to date; all the more reason to prosecute them. in its report on the future development of frontex, the commission stressed that cooperation with third countries was a key element in improving the long-term quality of the joint operations carried out by the agency. we must therefore seriously consider the possibility of allowing the agency to carry out pilot projects for third countries, while ensuring that the activities of the agency are consistent with the overall framework of the union's external policy. such projects could increase the benefits of cooperation established under the current framework, as these arrangements could be used to identify the real needs for capacity building in border management in certain third countries. finally, the commission considers 2008 to be a test year. the overall budget for frontex is higher, the crate base is fully operational, the rapid response teams are in place. we will of course assess the results of these measures and, if necessary, explore other avenues such as the establishment of a european border guard system, as indicated in the commission's evaluation report. that is the information i wanted to give as i now prepare to listen carefully to the members of parliament who will be raising these difficult problems.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. other at this time of year, we start to hear about the tragedies of hundreds of migrants and, knowing this, it is worth asking whether this year we are better prepared to face the challenge of illegal immigration. frontex is only part of the solution - it is a deterrent, as the commissioner in charge of combating illegal immigration said, and this year, it will be a test year for frontex. as commissioner barrot rightly said, frontex has this year doubled its budget, given it a rapid intervention team and also appears to have sufficient means to carry out its missions. we will therefore be closely monitoring the work of frontex and expect this year to be more effective than it has been so far. if frontex wants the support of this parliament it must show that it deserves our support. mr president, but as i said frontex is only part of the solution, whether we want it or not the solution must also include a serious discussion on how the burden will be shared between the member states - a discussion which the council has so far avoided. we must put an end to the hypocrisy of being scandalized by the flood of migrants while leaving the southern member states to shoulder the burden. in the mediterranean, the need for burden sharing could not be clearer. last year we already had incidents where migrants at sea in the libyan rescue zone were turned over or hung from a tuna net, libya did nothing while european countries pointed their fingers at each other. i ask the commission and the council, what will they do this year - there is no doubt mr commissioner, mr president of the council, there is no doubt that we all have an obligation to save people's lives. but it is time for both the commission and the council to have the courage to answer these questions. is there one country that is obliged to take in migrants or should they be shared among all?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would just like to agree with the previous speaker on the importance of this oral question. i am greatly disappointed that the council will not be there to discuss it. this is a matter that affects thousands – if not hundreds of thousands – of businesses throughout europe who are being misled and actually cheated out of their own money. so it is a great pity that the council will not be there. i think that the council should give more importance to businesses, especially small businesses, and more importance to this chamber.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the engaging debate and the range of interesting points you raised clearly demonstrate the commitment of this parliament to move forward the agenda of the integrated maritime policy for the union. i assure you that the commission fully shares this commitment. many speakers raised the point that we have not gone far enough in our proposals and that we could and should have been even more ambitious. i take these comments as a sign of your real conviction that this policy is one that will be a success and will make a significant difference to the millions of european union citizens and stakeholders that are affected by our oceans. let me reiterate that this is only the beginning of a whole process and that at this stage our primary focus is to ensure that we have the tools in place in the short term to be able to develop and direct the process in the right direction. this is therefore the main thrust of the action plan adopted by the commission last october. on the issue of financing, i agree with mr queiró that financing is a key issue that will have an impact on the success of this policy. thus far we have mobilised financing from savings made in policy areas such as fisheries. this was not to the detriment of fisheries programmes but due to savings and unused money. the issue of future funding of the integrated maritime policy will be a crucial one in the discussions and in the future financial perspectives. let me now turn to a few specific points that have been raised and on which i would like to give an immediate comment. i would like, however, to assure you that we will give full consideration to all the points that have been mentioned during the course of this debate. with regard to emissions by ships i would like to recall the very significant agreement that has just been reached within imo on sox and on nox. i would like now to have more focus on co2 and we should do so first within the imo and, if this fails, we would have the obligation to act ourselves. on the point that was raised by mr jarzembowski concerning the european coastguard, to whom i paid particular attention, i would like to underline that this is a very sensitive matter. however, i foresee the development of a coordinated mechanism of national coastguards or of surveillance systems. with regard to the fuel price increases, let me reiterate that this is certainly not due to any measures taken by brussels, but it is an international problem and it is a new reality. we are doing our utmost to find appropriate solutions to help the sectoral structure and to face up to this reality. we have just reached agreement in fact with france in this regard and i am sure that details of this agreement will be made public in the coming days. on the issue of piracy, of course the commission is deeply concerned that incidents are on the increase. we see a need and an opportunity for mutual assistance and support among the eu membership to face this threat and await further direction from the council and from the member states themselves on this. i also agree with those who have made calls for more regional approaches and we will be working in this direction. our project on surveillance in the western mediterranean is based on such a regional approach and we hope it can serve as an example to be extended to other regions. in fact we will be looking at the maritime policy for the baltic and black seas, which has been referred to by a number of speakers this morning, as we have just started to do with regard to the mediterranean. i do not have time to outline the actions already taken or envisaged in the short term on fisheries like ieu, the structural fishing practices, the ecosystem approach, discards, port strategy, maritime transport, marine maritime research, the marine environment, energy, governance, surveillance or the social exclusion of seafarers, all of which we are dealing with. however, i can assure you that the commission’s commitment to push forward this new policy hand in hand with parliament in particular and with the member states and stakeholders is guaranteed.
, in writing. i fully agree with the statement that 'europe's cities should be the cleanest in the world, with the most profitable economy, the most modern and cleanest industry, the best research and technology and the most innovative ideas'. however, we must remember that in order to achieve these goals, the commission's action plan for an integrated maritime policy will have to be much more ambitious. on the other hand, it is clear that the action plan contains 'too few concrete measures', and that it must be admitted that european maritime policy is not prepared for the consequences of climate change, in particular sea-level rise and the increased risks of flooding in ports and coastal regions. it is important that member states take the lead in making a european maritime policy a major contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases. also the fact that the grounding of the bird is a substantial part of the whole bird hoisting. i conclude that the commission should be asked to present an action plan to reduce landfilling. member states are therefore required to incorporate the relevant legal acts into their national legislation without delay.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to thank the honourable member for her question and also the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i shall try to answer the question in the terms suggested by the honourable member. as regards the first sub-question, namely what action have the member states taken to close down fraudulent companies with registered offices, i should like to inform you that the council has not yet received any proposal from the member states to deal with this problem. it was also not informed of any measures taken by member states to close such companies, nor of any intention to exchange company data between their competent authorities. as regards the second question, concerning the measures taken to close the loopholes in the transposition of the misleading advertising directive, i must answer that the directive, or its implementation, is a matter for the european commission. that is the provision of article 211 of the treaty establishing the european community, and i therefore believe that the european parliament should address this question to the commission. with regard to those two questions, the first and the second, i should add that the council has not been informed of any measures taken by the member states to alert the business community to the danger posed by fraudulent companies offering registered services. as regards the question of extending the scope of the unfair commercial practices directive, i agree with mrs mccarthy that the directive does not cover the cases described by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and therefore does not cover cases of fraudulent commercial practices targeting small and medium-sized enterprises. the reason for this is that the scope of that directive is limited to business-to-consumer relations. as regards the possible extension of this directive to business-to-business cooperation, i can only say that the council will address this issue when and if a legislative proposal is submitted to it. however, i would point out that the political debate on whether the directive should also cover business practices between undertakings was already under way at the time of the adoption of the directive in the council. i would remind you that at the time, in addition to the commission, most member states were opposed to the inclusion of unfair commercial practices which do not harm consumers in the directive. however, i would like to stress in particular that companies, including smes, are not left unprotected from such behaviour. they are protected by the directive on misleading and comparative advertising. let me finish with the next one. on behalf of the bureau, i strongly agree with the committee's view that dishonest and fraudulent business practices in any economic sector are unacceptable. and we also agree that such behavior should be addressed. member states shall deal with unfair commercial practices in accordance with their national law. the european city guide case mentioned in your question has also been tried in court in at least one member state. i would now like to thank you again for the question you have asked and i shall certainly be interested in hearing the debate.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, when you open this directory - because this directory that has been published is big and thick - you find hundreds of pages, with thousands of companies, often small businesses that ended up in this directory because they were deceived. they did not want to enter it, but they were forced to. the committee on petitions of this parliament has about 400 petitions before it which are complaints from small businesses that have been caught in this net. i think there are three elements to this case. first, the small businesses involved are victims of fraud. secondly, there is a crossborder, transnational element to this matter and, therefore, it should be of interest to us in europe, in the european parliament, in the council and in the commission. third, companies like the european city guide are helping to take advantage of the loopholes in the legislation. what is the european parliament doing, apart from what the imco committee is doing, as mrs mccarthy told us? the committee on petitions will report on this matter. i will be the rapporteur who will write this report which will do four things. firstly, it wants to raise awareness about this problem, which is a big one. secondly, it will continue to urge the council and the commission, in particular, to take clear action, because if they cannot act today, they must be in a position to act. third, it must also look at whether there are legislative shortcomings and this is the role of the imco committee. finally, it must also give valuable advice to these victims. the committee on petitions will consult, meet with victims, meet with the social partners, and also meet with the commission before adopting this report, which is expected to be adopted by the end of this year.
we needed this new start, we needed this new energy for the mediterranean policy which is so important for the mediterranean and for europe. perhaps the biggest flaw in the barcelona process was that our southern mediterranean neighbours always felt that it was a europe process imposed on them and that there was not enough of a sense of equality and a sense of partnership in it. at the summit on 13 july we must see to it that this new project of union for the mediterranean is built on true partnership, built on true equality. we build on structures that are shared and do not impose our proposals on others. of course, this means that there are obligations as well as rights on both sides and not just on one side. we welcome this proposal with a mixture of scepticism but at the same time also hope. i hope hope will prevail over scepticism.
in writing. – it is a pleasure to hear statements from the council and the commission regarding the barcelona process and the proposal for a union for the mediterranean. the latter is to be initiated on 13 july in paris during the french presidency. the government of malta has issued a position paper on the said statements. i fully agree with the proposals being made regarding the union for the mediterranean. as it is important not to duplicate efforts and energies, the suggestion relating to maritime activities is laudable. malta has offered to host a secretariat to overview the implementation of such proposals and i fully endorse this offer, not only because of the unique geographical position of the island in the mediterranean but also because we have the infrastructure, personnel and experience to host such an institute. to conclude, i would like to mention that, just over thirty years ago, it was a labour government that managed to bring world attention to the importance of the mediterranean and the necessity of collaboration between the countries bordering the northern and southern shores of this sea.
i would like to start by congratulating my colleague manfred weber for the great and valuable work he has done on this law, on this compromise, which we have managed to achieve. mr president, the result of last week's referendum in ireland shows that people feel that the european union is not responding sufficiently to their concerns and if you look even at the surveys that are being carried out, such as eurobarometer for example, you find that immigration is among the biggest concerns of european union citizens, where european union citizens want more europe and not less, but the response that we have so far given them is not a sufficient answer. the european union will therefore not be taken seriously in the field of immigration if it does not show that it is capable of giving a clear and effective response in the field of immigration. what is the starting point of this directive? the starting point is to apply to those in an illegal situation. if you are in an illegal situation, the only answer can be that you should go back from where you came. the one that is trying to make this law and whoever votes against it is saying and sending the message that illegality can remain and we can accept it; this is not and should not be acceptable. for those to be returned there are a series of conditions that this compromise takes into account that vary on detention, treatment, use of force, health service, and others. it's a compromise, what we have in front of us. it's not perfect but it's a good enough compromise to get us going. we must show that we are capable of responding to this compromise.
in writing. – the proposed directive on the return of illegal migrants should be welcomed for its effort to adopt common standards and is a step in the right direction. however, it falls short in providing some safeguards relating to refugee and human rights, and fails to address the specific needs and problems of member states like malta, which are being affected to a disproportionate degree relative to their size, population and resources. once again, i wish to stress and reiterate the point that this matter deserves a common european policy that addresses fundamental ‘issues’, such as a) the adoption of ‘burden-sharing’ policies amongst all the member states b) the revision of dublin ii c) adequate financial support d) an assessment of the viability, or otherwise, of developing centres such as job centres in countries of origin and transit e) the development of a realistic return policy f) the implementation of timely integration policy and g) the fight against organised crime (involving trafficking in people), xenophobia and racism. the setting up of an agency specifically created to address all legal and illegal immigration would be highly instrumental in tackling these issues in a comprehensive and integrated manner.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would first like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the rapporteur, mr casa, on behalf of the commission, for the excellent work they have done in assessing slovakia's compliance with the convergence criteria for adopting the single currency. with slovakia joining the euro area, the euro area will have 16 members, four of whom belong to the group of countries that joined the union in 2004. this is the fifth enlargement of the euro area since the introduction of the single currency in 1999. this is clear evidence that it is open to all member states respecting the conditions laid down in the treaty. the entry of slovakia into the euro area is the culmination of the remarkable progress made by the slovak economy over the last decade. it will enable it to benefit from the important advantages of economic and monetary union, as recalled in the report adopted by the commission last may on the 10 years of emu. the report also demonstrates that to reap the full benefits of the euro, rigorous macroeconomic policies must be pursued to preserve the country's competitiveness when the exchange rate of the currency is irrevocably fixed. this includes fiscal discipline, a responsible wage policy and structural reforms, particularly in the functioning of the labour market. without a clear commitment to this, there is a risk that inflation will become a serious and real problem. this is a point explicitly made in mr casa's report, with which the commission fully agrees. the ecofin council of 3 june gave a positive opinion on the commission's report on slovakia's compliance with the convergence criteria. the european council in brussels on thursday and friday is expected to confirm, after parliament's opinion has been obtained, political support for slovakia's adoption of the single currency, which will be confirmed by the ecofin council next july. the commission will propose next week the definitive exchange rate between the slovak koruna and the euro, which will also be formally adopted by the ecofin council in july. i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and mr casa for the work that has been carried out over the last few months to enable parliament to deliver its opinion within the tight deadlines with which our three institutions have to work in order to carry out a rigorous assessment of the member state's compliance with the criteria and to allow it sufficient time to complete the practical preparations for the adoption of the euro on 1 january 2009.
the rapporteur . − we are facing an important moment because we are again in this parliament talking about the growth of the eurozone, an ex-communist country, also a country that like other countries, such as malta, joined the european union in 2004, a country that needed to change its economy in order to meet the criteria required by the treaty. and that was not easy to do. we have been discussing for months with the commission, the european central bank, the slovak government and all slovak civil society to see that the process is one that can really lead to slovakia meeting all the criteria required by the treaty. after the commission's report was published, we as a parliament had a process of discussion and consultation which was really, for me too, a very important moment because i could see not only what the commission was telling me, not only what the european central bank or the slovak government were saying, but i could hear from the citizens of slovakia how they were looking at this historic step which they are going to take, god willing, in january next year. as the commissioner said a moment ago, slovakia today has a responsibility because behind it there is a string of countries, many of them also from the communist era, which want to enter this area so important for the european union. so the country we are talking about today has a responsibility to remain sustainable in terms of convergence, especially the rate of inflation that we talked a lot about even in my report. however, from the statistics we have before us today, it is clear that we have a problem in the whole area and we cannot identify only slovakia, because today we are talking about a very high inflation rate in the 21 countries of the european union. in other words, we want to see not only that slovakia sustainably maintains its inflation rate, but we also want to see, for the countries already in the zone, what will be done to reduce the inflation rate as much as possible in all countries. and we know the problems we are facing at the moment, including the oil problem which is affecting us in a not so positive way and so we have to see how we tackle this very important issue. as i said, this is the first time that parliament has visited slovakia and i would appeal to every country that is going to join the euro area to have delegations from this parliament because there it gives the opportunity to hear more and to learn more about the real economy as it is going to be in that particular country. if i come to speak about the commission, i am a little disappointed about the revaluation they have made after the convergence report was officially released. i do not think that this parliament should be treated in the way that the commission has been treated because at least we should have been consulted. i understand that a review cannot be announced long in advance because of the possibility of speculation, but this parliament demands that when such measures are taken after the convergence report is produced, we as a parliament should be consulted at least even in the last moments of this decision. before i close, i would like to thank everyone who helped me with this report, including the shadow rapporteurs of all the political groups, my coordinator and also the committee chairmen who were always close to me in this report. i thank the slovak people for taking this historic step and i hope that we will vote in favour of this important step, not only for them but also for the whole of the european union.
i would like to congratulate my colleague david casa, who i know has worked hard on this report, and wish him success. i would also like to congratulate slovakia on adopting the euro. i come from a country that has joined the euro this year and i can assure everyone that despite the difficulties and sacrifices that a country has to make to join the eurozone, it is certainly a source of great satisfaction and pride for these countries. i would like to say that in this discussion it is clear that it is possible to have what is called a "2 speed europe", a europe that moves at two speeds. i am saying this because last week there was the referendum in ireland where everyone knows the result and i think it is important to show that europe can move at different speeds and it is important to start considering this possibility for the future development of european integration.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of slovakia joining the eurozone is given by the socio-economic performance of the slovak republic. it is also given by the relatively firm will of all the governments that have followed, and i think that the slovak leadership in general has shown the will and the ability to respond to the changes that are necessary. the slovak authorities have also taken steps to ensure that the slovak authorities are able to comply with the obligations of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this was the first step towards the euro and was not burdened by any other considerations. i consider that a very powerful moment. the enlargement of the euro area to include slovakia is undoubtedly a deepening of european integration and will bring benefits not only to the slovak republic but to the european union as a whole, as a highly successful, fast-growing economy will enter into deeper integration. the debate has raised concerns about inflation. these are certainly concerns that have their arguments, but on the other hand there are undoubtedly equally strong arguments that have proven that the slovak government is responding consistently and after all it is not in the interest of any government to release the movement for inflation. however, there is an inflationary risk, and therefore in all documents, in the debates, the slovak government was alerted to this problem. as regards the question of the revaluation of the slovak currency, it must be stated that this has always taken place in the corridor that is envisaged, that is, within the flexibility that is granted to each government, to each state in the process, to respond as best as possible to a situation that certainly at the time of entry into the euro is extraordinary in all respects. this is not a situation, this is not an everyday business, this is a genuine emergency situation and in this case it is necessary to leave room for manoeuvre to the member states and this room is filled in very specifically. i'm sure that the final fixing of the value will be a very responsible goal and a very responsible task, but as extraordinary as this operation is, it's not the first time. the euro area has already expanded and this complex technical operation has been carried out many times with moderate success. ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to congratulate slovakia on its great step, on the great progress it has made, and also to emphasise that this is undoubtedly the result of the activities of slovakia as such, of the slovak governments, but it is also undoubtedly due to the great understanding and will of the slovak citizens.
the rapporteur. − i thank all my colleagues in this parliament for their speeches. i agree that in this parliament we have a consensus on (the fact) that we all agree that slovakia is prepared to join the eurozone. we have in fact some amendments on which we have also got the agreement of several political groups. we are facing a historic moment, as previous speakers have rightly said. we have, as several of our colleagues have also said, a club that not only welcomes the larger and more developed countries but welcomes everyone who is prepared and willing to accept the rules of the european union. in other words, today you have a zone which is welcoming those who meet all the criteria required by the treaty. there is no doubt that, as my colleagues have so well said, this has not been easy for slovakia and it will not be easy for it in the coming months. i end this speech by once again thanking everyone who has helped me to reach this moment and wishing the slovak people continued success. we hope that in the months and years to come, the same successes that our country is achieving in various fields will be achieved by the people who have worked so hard to reach this important level.
in writing. – pedestrians need to be protected to the utmost. the number of accidents involving pedestrians continues to rise. this may be due to a number of factors. the worst is reckless or drunken driving. drivers who cause fatal accidents have to carry the responsibility for their actions. unfortunately i feel that in my country there are three main factors why pedestrian accidents occur. first: a large number of drivers have managed to obtain their licence to drive through illicit activities. the government did not respond adequately when this was uncovered. second: the state of many pavements in malta and gozo is in a shambles. even in the twin capitals of valletta and victoria the government has not been able to provide decent pavements. this is shameful. third: the courts in malta are too lenient when sentencing drivers who have caused fatal accidents. it is about time that magistrates sent to prison drivers who have caused the death of third parties through reckless or drunken driving – rather than imposing suspended sentences, which is unheard of in many european countries.
in writing. − i refer to my position regarding the establishment of common criteria that are clear regarding grant schemes made directly under cap. also i would like to refer to the establishment of aid and rights and duties of farmers and herdsmen. the proposal which is being made is to crystallise criteria so that member states will be authorised to pass on aid to herdsmen producing beef and veal. this system is technically referred to as ‘coupled’ and as malta has opted for the implementation of fully decoupled payments i voted in favour on the basis of an issue which is in the national interest.
in writing. − malta's historical industry is ship repair. working in the dockyards is dangerous. together with the construction industry, they are two main areas prone to accidents. whereas the construction industry has been slow on the uptake relating to the use of safety work equipment, the dockyards pay great attention to safety and security at work. today malta's dockyards are facing their greatest test. the nationalist government wants to privatise them at all costs. it appears that no other alternatives are to be considered. diversification, niche industries or specialisation such as refurbishing cruise liners don't appear to be on the agenda for discussion. this notwithstanding, that the government has been told both by the malta labour party and the general workers union that they are prepared to play their part to save the yards. these dockyards have been continuously providing not only for themselves, but also for maltese industry, highly trained tradesmen. their excellence is second to none. i have personally assessed their excellence when towards the tail-end of the last labour government the prime minister gave me responsibility for the yards. i may also add that i have a personal soft spot for the yards as my father was a dockyard employee in the 1950's.
in writing. − i have abstained in order to bring to attention that this report does not take into consideration the difference which exists between island states and mainland. malta is not connected by rail to the continent and its only connection is either by sea or air. in addition, malta's economy is heavily dependent on tourism, which attracts over one million persons a year by air and close to half a million by sea. the effect on families, for instance, from the uk has been estimated to increase by 160 £ as a result of the legislation coming into force. it is important to control emissions but it is also important to distinguish between the different aspirations and realities of the component countries within the eu. the principle of one suit fits all is discriminatory when special circumstances occur.
it is important that the european parliament is aware of what is happening in the countries about the prices of water and electricity and the effect of what we have been through today, i.e. on the case. that is why i am explaining this vote. the government since the oil price hike, has raised the consumer bill by imposing a surcharge. this month it announced that it would raise it to 96%. this will create a new poverty, a poverty that will be known as energy poverty. at the same time the government is not putting forward any solution for either the immediate or the distant future. the policy of alternative energy is non-existent despite the fact that in countries we have a lot of sun and wind, even with regard to cleaner energy such as the use of gas so much that the government has not even started to think about it. that is why i voted in this way and why what we have done today is important but not historic.
in writing. − the position i have taken reflects my opinion regarding the importance of natural gas and its availability for consumers at the lowest possible price. a gas pipeline is going to unite libya and sicily. this will pass in the vicinity of malta so that, in order for my country to benefit, it will have to either join the pipeline or, as has been proposed, there will have to be a pipeline from sicily to malta. my country does not have a large domestic market and its consumption varies between 16 to 18 million units annually. should the use of natural gas become more widespread, it will no doubt change the policy on energy in both malta and gozo. this can take place if gas is used in the production of energy itself. i drew the attention of the then nationalist government to the importance of having gas-powered stations some 15 years ago. the government did not pay any heed and eventually installed only one small gas-powered station as an extension. also, as distances in malta are small, it is feasible to use gas for the propulsion of private and commercial vehicles. the conversion of vehicle engines is not a problem. also gas is much cheaper and much cleaner than petrol or diesel. but the government and its agency, enemalta, have not even considered the infrastructure needed regarding its distribution.
in writing. − the agreement on fishing between the eu and mauritania is definitely important for both parties. through this agreement, fishermen from the mediterranean are able to exercise their trade elsewhere, as the mediterranean is being over-fished. the recent tuna issue is just the beginning. i am aware that two fishing companies from malta have used this agreement to fish in the atlantic. this came to my knowledge when i was on an official ep delegation to mauritania and the delegation was informed by the president that all endeavours to find a solution to that agreement had thus far failed. it was at this point that i asked to speak to the president in private. i asked if he had ever discussed the issue with the commissioner dr. joe borg, who is the maltese commissioner. the president informed me that he had not talked to him but that i was free to do so myself if i wished. i took it upon myself to immediately contact dr. borg who, after assessing the file, gave me a synopsis of the issues at stake. i brought this to the attention of the president, also informing him of the desire of the commissioner to restart the discussions.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the application of the dublin system was the subject of a technical and political evaluation in the context of the debate launched in 2007 following the green paper on a future common european asylum system. based on the conclusions of this dual evaluation, the commission intends to propose amendments to the dublin and eurodac regulations before the end of the year, while maintaining the basic principles of the dublin system. this is to enhance both the efficiency of the system and the protection of the persons concerned. i thank parliament, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for opening this debate on these future amendments, a debate which promises to be constructive and undoubtedly intense. the commission shares the concerns expressed in your report, madam rapporteur, about the shortcomings. it shares the conclusion that the success of the dublin system requires further harmonisation of protection standards at eu level. this is the way to guarantee equal access to protection for all asylum seekers transferred to other member states. this further harmonisation of the member states' asylum laws is therefore necessary alongside the deepening of practical cooperation envisaged in the second phase of the common european asylum system. the commission intends to define better the procedures and deadlines to be respected and to improve the quality and reliability of the data contained in the eurodac database. i do not want to go into detail, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, but it is true that we are considering a series of amendments - i will give a few examples: improving the information provided to asylum seekers, making the right of appeal more effective, ensuring that the detention of asylum seekers is not arbitrary, clarifying the conditions and procedures to be followed for the application of the humanitarian clause, providing more guarantees for unaccompanied minors, extending the right to family reunification for applicants and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection. the fact is that while the dublin system has been positively assessed, it is true that it imposes additional burdens on certain member states with limited reception and absorption capacities and at the same time subject to particular migratory pressure due to their geographical situation. the commission is considering the prospect of temporarily suspending the application of the dublin provisions to a member state with an overburden, and of creating teams of experts on asylum, which could be called upon by those member states with a somewhat overburden. the commission takes note of the substantial and constructive recommendations contained in parliament's report and we will spare no effort to take all necessary measures to address the concerns expressed by parliament in its report about the functioning and impact of the dublin system. i am convinced that this improvement in the right of asylum is a major element for the future and for, i would say, the vision we have of a europe that remains faithful to its great traditions of welcome.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. this law needs to be revised. let me try to explain why. when this law was made, the aim was that an asylum seeker, who is seeking protection, could do so in the country where he first arrived. it seems reasonable, just when this law was made, that there was never any thought that many people especially today would end up entering and arriving in the european union or in a member country by catching a boat, crossing the atlantic or the mediterranean to enter the european union. this was never the intention of this regulation and now this regulation is putting these countries in the situation of receiving these people coming by boat, in a disproportionate, difficult and serious situation. i am pleased to hear commissioner barrot, when he talks about the review, say that one of the possibilities in the review of this regulation is precisely the temporary suspension of this regulation by those countries which are suffering from a certain disproportionate burden. that's what we need. either that, or we need a mechanism of solidarity that allows immigrants who arrive in a country with this burden to move to another country in the european union. it is important that this review be carried out, and that it be carried out today before tomorrow.
in writing. − the maltese islands are the southern frontier of the eu. situated in the middle of the mediterranean, they are receiving a disproportionate number of irregular immigrants. the majority file for asylum status. frontex – which was hailed by government representatives as a solution to curtailing the number of irregular immigrants – has been a complete failure. we have been requesting the sharing of the burden, with little or no response. now that this legislature has entered its final year, we are proposing mechanisms for burden-sharing. finally we are acknowledging the need ‘to help alleviate the disproportionate load which could fall on certain member states, in particular the border member states’. the fact that we have acknowledged the need ‘for the provision of mechanisms other than financial to correct the adverse effects of the implementation of this system for the smaller member states at the union's external borders’ is most welcome, as it refers to malta in everything but name. the eu has not lived up to its spirit of solidarity where this issue is concerned. it is about time that we cut the rhetoric and get down to the substance. the eu must realise that its smallest state cannot continue to absorb the vast number of immigrants seeking refuge and asylum.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am taking part in this debate on behalf of my colleague margot wallström. the work of the committee on petitions is a fascinating source of insight into the concerns and grievances of citizens concerning european affairs. they cover a wide range of policy areas, although land-use planning and environmental issues crop up very often; they cover practically all member states, and they cover a broad cross-section of civil society, from the individual citizen right up to the multi-national non-governmental organisation. your rapporteur is right, i believe, to underline the importance of all the work represented by the thousand or more petitions you receive each year. there are two aspects of the report and resolution which i would like to pick up. the first is the recent development of on-the-spot visits of the committee to the sites of grievances, and which can have a considerable impact in the media, and will no doubt raise the visibility of your work. these missions, besides the press and media coverage, also give rise to very informative reports and would seem to me to be of a high quality. i think that these are important records of your activity and that they deserve wide publicity. it is a big investment of your time and resources, but i am sure that it is one that pays off. the second of the points i wish to raise is turned more to the future. i wish to reassure you once again of our intentions for the best possible collaboration between the commission and parliament. this collaboration is mutually reinforcing; the habit of collaboration instils a better exchange of information, and, as an outcome, a better all-round standard of service for our citizens. the recent increase in the workload in the petitions routine, described in the report, makes the need for an efficient and effective interinstitutional collaboration all the more important. i would like you to know that we will do our best to make it work.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you mr president. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr david hammerstein, on his report and the work he has done on this report. the latest eurobarometer public opinion survey at european union level says that the european parliament is the institution in which european citizens have the most confidence. in fact, 52% of europeans have confidence in the european parliament, which is more than the confidence enjoyed by the commission itself (47%), more than the confidence enjoyed by national parliaments, which enjoy only 34% confidence, and also more than the confidence enjoyed by national governments, which enjoy only 32% confidence by citizens of the european union. i believe that this confidence in the european parliament should be built on and further enhanced. but the fact remains that the european parliament is the institution most trusted by the citizens of the european union. i think this is due to the fact that there is a direct election of the members of this parliament; it is also clear from the fact that the treaty recognises the right of citizens to lodge a complaint, to submit a petition to this parliament for its consideration. and indeed, it is precisely this work that the committee on petitions does, and it is therefore a very important committee because it gives a voice to the people and is therefore the committee, of the 20 committees in this parliament, that is closest to the people. what can we do to improve the situation? i think we should raise awareness of this committee and the possibility of citizens petitioning. i do not agree with the rapporteur here that we have sufficient knowledge; i think 1,500 petitions is a little bit when you consider that we represent a continent of half a billion people. and we want to increase awareness and the possibility for citizens to make a complaint, to make a petition. we want further simplification to make it easier for citizens to make this complaint. and so we are asking in this report that the secretary-general of the european parliament negotiate with the european commission to simplify the petition. we also want more efficiency, because we feel that there are too many delays in the consideration of complaints. only, it takes three months to register a petition or a complaint from people - this delay is unacceptable. and finally we need a more effective remedy. we want more cooperation when legal proceedings are about to be opened and we want national representatives to be present too to hear people's complaints with us. thank you very much.
in writing. − we have often asked ourselves whether it is worth dedicating a year to a particular topic. the whole idea is to raise visibility of the topic itself. it is a way of attracting attention and giving extra focus to a particular subject. there can be no harm in this. the idea has become so popular that we have to make a judicious choice when selecting the subject. it is often a question of priorities. creation and innovation are an ideal subject because they affect the very essence of what europe represents and the direction which europe has to take. creation and innovation cannot be evaluated in a vacuum. they have to be understood on what they can contribute. first and foremost is their importance within the manufacturing sphere. also, the importance of creation and innovation has to be viewed within the services framework. it is only through creative and innovative ideas that europe can remain competitive. it is only by being one step ahead that certain sectors can survive. to an extent europe has recognised the need to invest more heavily in research and development, and this is synonymous with the current subject of creative and innovative ideas.
in writing. − a priority of all education ministries must be the recruitment of the best candidates to the teaching profession. the profession has to be sufficiently attractive. teachers must benefit from remuneration which reflects their importance to society. investment in education is never wasted. more resources have to be allocated to teacher training. the profession has to be fulfilling. it has to be seen as a good career. supporting teacher education through the lifelong learning programme is essential. a certain freshness is achieved through teacher exchange programmes between schools in different countries. the place of a teacher is in the classroom. bureaucracy in the form of increasing levels of administration and paperwork result in less time spent by teachers with their pupils. an added concern is violence in school. aggression in schools, either by pupils or their parents, is on the increase. all efforts must be made to curb violence and aggression in schools.
in writing. − needless to say, roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles are an important ingredient for the safety of drivers, passengers and pedestrians. they are also essential in the fight against climate change in terms of co2 emissions. on the other hand, the government of a country has the obligation to provide a framework which contributes to the health and safety of drivers, passengers and pedestrians. malta and gozo have one of the highest densities of private cars per capita. cars in malta are extremely expensive, due to a high registration tax. this is making it very difficult for citizens to change to more efficient cars. the government must address the issue of car registration immediately and should do so in the next budget. people use private transport because the situation of public transport is not acceptable. it is about time a general overhaul of public transport was carried out. in addition, the state of many of our roads is terrible. the allocation of structural funds by the eu for 2007-2013 is 53%. under the circumstances all major roads have to be brought up to standard.
in writing. – it is important to have common rules and standards for ship inspection and survey organisations and for relevant activities of maritime administration. on the other hand, it is important for the european union to increase the number of ships registered with its member states. the ship registers of malta, cyprus and greece have enabled the european union to remain one of the major global players as far as ship registration is concerned. through this the european union is able to raise standards and maintain a certain scrutiny of their vessels. without compromising on safety the european union has to make sure that the vessels on its members’ books do not migrate to other states, especially those known states which enable ships to fly ‘flags of convenience’. it must be appreciated that shipping is one of the cleanest ways of transportation. it is also one of the cheapest. we must be careful not to overburden this important industry. all measures taken have to bear this in mind. transportation by shipping has to be encouraged and this has to be taken into consideration when regulating on the industry without making any compromises on security, health and safety.
in writing. – the problem of obesity and diet-related diseases has taken dramatic proportions worldwide. in my view, sophisticated and aggressive marketing techniques have prevented consumers from making informed choices in regards to their diet. in this respect children are particularly vulnerable. the avms directive foresees that media service providers would adopt voluntarily a code of conduct regarding commercial communication on food and beverages. while i appreciate the self-regulation aspirations of industry and media, i would have preferred to see concrete restrictions on the volume and type of advertising aimed at children. the destructive effects of low quality food on society are comparable to that of alcohol and tobacco, whose advertising is heavily regulated. a similar approach can be applied to foods that have been established as harmful to human health. consumers need clear and objective information, which can be provided by requiring higher standards on food labelling and placing more restrictions on advertising. the current financial crisis has exposed one more time the results from mixing greed and lack of regulation. whether you stand to loose your house or your health, i think the stakes are too high for an indifferent marketing approach. as regulators we need to step in and do our job.
the rapporteur . − we are discussing new and more transparent rules in the financial services sector at a time when we are going through one of the biggest crises in this area. these times show us that things cannot be left to themselves and that regulation is needed. 'regulation' does not mean bureaucracy (and certainly not red tape) but assurance that things are being done in the best way, not with forms and papers that go nowhere. when my colleague and i prepared this report we had two priorities. the first was to see that any changes that could be made would not have negative repercussions on the consumer. in other words, there should be no further burdens on consumers, and therefore the possibility of introducing vat on financial services should only apply to business-to-business transactions and therefore be recoverable. at no stage can there be vat in the test proposed by us on a financial service supplied to a non-taxable person, i.e. the consumer. this is stated clearly and unambiguously in the proposed text, despite reservations perhaps from other institutions. some people criticise the fact that industry will save costs and that there may be a reduction in member states' revenue, an interesting argument but one that i frankly think often comes from those with a narrow view of the economy and fiscal policy. first, in a competitive field such as financial services and in a system where you have a safeguard against agreements between companies, costs saved by companies must either be passed on as benefits to consumers or used to offset other costs incurred. secondly, as europe we must understand once and for all that we are not alone in competing in the market, we must see to it that the systems used by the member states - and by the european union as a whole - are attractive to serious companies that want to enter the market and establish themselves as true european operators. facilitating systems is a way of incentivising this area, generating the market and, i would say, creating jobs - and productive work. through this report we are helping to create a european market by removing barriers. we are doing what has been said for many years; implementing one of the objectives of the action plan in this area. we are showing that we are able to be proactive, to solve problems and to move on to new ideas. we may not agree on the technicalities, some may say that we can use one system and not another, but i believe that this parliament must give an indication that this is our ultimate aim. of course there were certain points where not everyone agreed, including me: for example, the broadening of definitions. i believe that it would be better if the committee followed my recommendations on this, which have always been either to stick to the commission's text, or to have a greater restriction of definitions. however, it is also worth noting that the committee chose to then move strategically and therefore this report was approved by only one vote against. i look forward to hearing my colleagues' reactions and also the commission's.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr muscat for his work and the support he has given to the commission’s proposal, and i wish him success in his future role in malta. the commission proposal addresses three major issues. first, the existing provisions are increasingly subject to legal challenge in the european court of justice. something needs to be done about this. second, we need more consistent application of the vat rules on financial services and a more level playing field in the internal market. third, we must take steps to improve competitiveness in the sector. there are concerns that the financial services and insurance industries in the european union are less efficient than they should be, and consequently eu industry faces higher costs for financial services and insurance than its competitors in third countries. this is not solely a result of the eu’s vat rules, but they do have a role in contributing to this situation. i have to add that vat exemption is not applied uniformly in the different member states, and this causes competitive distortions within the european union. for example, the possibility of recovering tax paid to specialist third-party service providers (outsourcers) varies depending on national interpretation of the vat rules. for the commission, improving the competitiveness of our european financial and insurance companies was therefore a factor in making this proposal, but the reality is that this must be balanced against the need of the member states to ensure stable tax revenues. the proposal has three elements. first, to increase legal certainty for all concerned, we propose a modernised definition of the exempt services. second, to avoid their business customers incurring non-deductible ‘hidden’ vat, the proposal aims at allowing all banking and insurance companies to opt to tax their services. third, the proposal contains an exemption from vat on cost-sharing arrangements, including those which operate across borders. these proposals could result in some limited initial vat revenue reductions for the member states, but these can be justified if, as we expect, the proposed changes lead to increased competitiveness. i therefore welcome the observation in the report on the problems of non-recoverable vat and its relevance to business efficiency and the lisbon strategy. i also welcome the fact that the rapporteur recognises that change may result in a reduction in vat receipts. for consumers, i agree that the implications are not always clear-cut, but i believe they will eventually benefit from cost savings achieved within the industry. i also welcome the positive remarks about the scope of the proposal and the creation of legal certainty. the new definitions proposed by the commission are necessary to bring the legislation into line with economic realities. i sympathise with the remarks on the need for prudence and the absence of reliable figures which would allow the impact of change to be fully assessed. this latter lacuna should not, however, be laid at the feet of the commission, as neither the industries concerned nor national administrations could provide the necessary data. like mr muscat, i am conscious that cross-border consolidation in the finance industry increasingly results in vat revenue accruing to the member state where the service is created, rather than where the consumer of the service is established. a move from exemption to taxation, which would result from greater access to the option to tax as we have advocated in this proposal, would correct this trend. i think this is the best way to deal with the concerns which have been raised. finally, i would like to inform you that detailed discussions on this proposal already started in the council under the recent slovenian presidency. the current french presidency is also committed to making progress on this particular dossier, and i therefore welcome the positive engagement by parliament which can further encourage the council to make progress.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. other the report before us is particularly significant in view of the fact that the economy has developed in recent years in a manner that is little different from that of previous years. this report is undoubtedly trying to reflect more the current situation. it is therefore important to ensure the legal basis so that the companies concerned can operate with less bureaucracy, as the rapporteur rightly said. this can be done by removing the anomalies in the current law governing vat on financial services. a law that has been in place for the last thirty years and that is not clear enough. it is a report that will help to bring about as much stability as possible and we want to see how all countries are as much in harmony as possible in the applicable rates in order to reduce as much as possible the discrepancies. the need for this situation to change has been felt for some time and i think the rapporteur has done well in keeping in mind the need to simplify the work of financial companies, but also, and i think this is the most important thing, in seeing that consumers benefit from this proposed change. today is the last time that my colleague from malta is attending this plenary and i think that i too would like to wish him well in the work he will have to do in the years ahead. he has four years' experience in this parliament, an experience which i think has transformed the character of my colleague from a politician who did not believe much in the european union, and the good it can do for malta, to one who, as this report has shown, truly believes that from here we can change policy, not only in our country, but also the policy we have adopted in the european union. today we have a transformation that we want to take back to countries because i think that the experience that this parliament has gained can be taken back to our country and the policy that is being pursued in countries can be similar to the way we work in this parliament, that is to say that the national interest is important, but also the interest of the european union, because today we are part of it. i wish him well in his work, i wish him success in his office as leader of the opposition, i will not wish him to be leader of the opposition for long, because i do not think that is the way to speak of my colleague, but i wish him that the positive experience he has gained from this parliament will transform him first in his party, and lastly in our country.
the rapporteur has retained the framework of the commission proposal to tackle a problem that we have been putting off for more than thirty years. this area is of great importance to a growing number of countries, including malta. the report finds regulations that facilitate the operation of serious companies, which give a chance to have a true market without borders to lead to the creation of wealth, jobs and more choice. one of the priorities is that there should be a strong provision for consumers to be protected and in no way have to pay any additional taxes. indeed, any cost reduction and increase in the efficiency of the system should benefit consumers. in the future further analyses should be carried out to include other safeguards if the need is found. my friend joseph muscat's report has led to greater clarity and legal certainty in the area of taxation of financial services, especially now that we are going through a complete upheaval in the financial markets. in conclusion, i would like to thank my friend and colleague, joseph muscat, who has given us such valuable work over the last four and a half years.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for your comments and the valuable views you expressed during the debate. as i said in my opening remarks, obtaining a positive opinion by parliament on the commission’s proposal for vat on insurance and financial services is very important. we have taken note of the concerns raised in the report, in particular the lack of neutrality in recovery rates, the difficulties with statistics and the risk of diversion of tax revenue from non-recoverable vat on inputs. while the commission could in principle look favourably at some of the amendments, such as those on derivatives, we will not formally amend our proposal. we will, however, endeavour to take the amendments suggested by parliament into consideration as much as possible during deliberations in the council. i would like to express my gratitude for your positive endorsement of our proposal. a positive opinion from parliament will be a good signal serving to raise awareness on the part of the member states of the need to act.
the rapporteur . − first of all, i would like to thank the services of the parliament and the commission for all the help they have given to this delicate dossier, although the work is not yet finished. but, on behalf of parliament, as the commissioner has promised, i also promise that we will have a very clear message. i think what we have to agree on here - and there is total agreement in parliament - is that yes, let's move the regulations, let's change where necessary, let's see that the system is simplified, but let's be careful that the bill does not have to be paid by the consumer. i think that is the main message that the commission, and the council, should take from this, as parliament. i will continue to ensure the smooth running of the rest of this dossier until it is completed. i thank my fellow uighurs, especially my colleague david casa, who has given us a beautiful certificate of the new political season of the labour party and the country.
of course, in this chaotic situation it is difficult to understand. i would like to explain my vote in favour of the resolution we have just voted on, which we have just approved, on the annual debate on the progress made in the area of freedom, justice and security. today, the council of justice and home affairs ministers is meeting to discuss and approve the european pact on immigration and asylum. this is a very important subject and a very important proposal which is being discussed in the council, and i hope that, in the discussion taking place in the council today, a clear statement will also be inserted into this pact on the need to share the burden of immigration more fairly, more equitably with everyone. i hope that the ministers will adopt this pact today and that it will contain a reference to this common responsibility of ours.
in writing. – water scarcity is a growing concern for all nations, but the impacts are generally more strongly felt by the poorest regions, leading to great environmental and economic misfortunes. some countries are affected more than others depending on their geographical location and the core industries of their economies. such is the case of the mediterranean region, where water scarcity will be an acute problem as a result of its potential to disrupt tourism. protecting water as a scarce resource is fundamental for environmental protection and economic development. the creation of a more cohesive policy with regard to water consumption, education and policy integration is necessary at european level to ensure effective and responsible protection of water supply and the environment in member states. also, more research is necessary into desalination plants and water recycling technology in order to have a cheaper and more efficient system. in addition, in the eu itself – at least in number of member states – we need to have better and tougher legislation to curb abuse and pollution of water tables. moreover, in certain regions the allocation of structural funds to support projects relating to water should be promoted. it is of critical value to ensure that all stakeholders in our society, politicians, industry and consumers themselves believe in this priority to be able to make informed decisions.
in writing. – undeclared work exploits workers, distorts labour markets and provides an unfair competitive advantage to unscrupulous employers, which leads to a low-level underground economy. one catchment area for undeclared work is to be found amongst illegal/irregular immigrants within a number of member states of the union. this racket of cheap labour is growing at a very fast rate. it is expected to grow further since illegal immigrants would need the money and at the same time would be terrified to report defaulting employers for fear of being expelled from the country by the authorities. i appreciate that some member states are taking a number of measures to eradicate this flagrant abuse of the law, but on the whole, the record of success in this regard has not been very impressive. the eu and the member states need to harmonise their efforts and to enact more legislation with a view to taking serious punitive action against those who are in default. the availability of illegal workers and the culture of underground work, lax legislation, unscrupulous employers, financial and economic crises and falling profitability margins all make it very attractive for exploitative practices.
in writing. – following the recent, in fact current, financial and economic upheaval and the global repercussions, i feel there is a necessity to re-evaluate the definition and thresholds of poverty. i am concerned that a significant amount of poverty is not as obvious as it was decades ago but i am afraid it is just as real. the contemporary lifestyle helps camouflage this new poverty to a large extent. the purchasing power of many households is being eroded by sharp increases in costs in general, and especially those relating to food, health and energy. families with low incomes, pensioners, the unemployed and other niches within our society are at risk of becoming vulnerable and will struggle to survive as these costs represent the largest share of their monthly budget. the performance of economies worldwide is expected to deteriorate rapidly as a recession is expected to take over. this would inevitably create instabilities in all sectors of the economy. reductions in social programmes and services would compound the problem for those who are experiencing an erosion in their purchasing power. i feel that the union and the member states have to address this issue to reduce the drastic inequalities and hardships that hidden poverty is having on many eu citizens.
in writing. − malta is the only state in the eu where divorce is not possible. in europe there are only three states where divorce is not achievable: the vatican, andorra and malta. malta, however, allowed the registration of a divorce obtained elsewhere provided the person was either a national or domiciled in the country where the divorce was given. by virtue of brussels ii (council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003), a person can now obtain a divorce if he is a national of any member state and has been habitually living there for six months. any other person can file for divorce if that person has been habitually resident in the member state for a continuous period of one year immediately preceding filing for divorce. it is commendable that a new article in cases where states do not have divorce laws, as in the case of malta, has been taken into consideration. in malta we have already recognised divorce through the system of registration in cases where the appropriate regulations apply; it is not a question of adopting the principle of divorce as this is already in force in certain circumstances. the issue is whether divorce should form a specific part of our legal system even when these special circumstances do not apply.
in writing. −i would like to express my support for the commission and council proposal regarding the use of the internet and communication. whilst, on the one hand, online technologies such as mobile phones offer a number of opportunities, risks to children and abuse of these technologies continue to exist. among the risks faced by children is the risk of being exposed to child-abuse material or being contacted by people who will befriend them in order to commit sexual abuse (grooming), or becoming victims of bullying in the online environment (cyber bullying). given that the challenges in this area have been further aggravated by the emergence of new technologies and services, the proposed new programme by the commission to better protect children from the new risks to which they are exposed is essential, and i agree to the proposed actions and measures in full. i am well aware of the gravity and danger of offensive exposure to children, because my own daughter – who is barely an adolescent – has been a target. most young adolescents are curious and think that having reached puberty they are now grown up. it is a very sensitive stage of their life and we have to do our utmost to provide some form of security and protection for their own good.
in writing. −the european court of justice ruling in the laval, ruffert and luxembourg cases has demonstrated that it is necessary to clarify that economic freedoms, as established in the treaties, should be interpreted in such a way as not to infringe upon the exercise of fundamental social rights as recognised in the member states and by community law. this includes the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce collective agreements and to take collective action, and must not infringe upon the autonomy of social partners when exercising these fundamental rights in pursuit of social interests and the protection of workers. there is certainly a need for the revision of the current legislation. the situation might lead to workers in host countries feeling pressured by low wage competition. i want to join my colleagues in their initiative to introduce consistent implementation of the posting of workers directive in all member states. i fully agreethat the commission and the member states should adopt measures to combat abuses, particularly regarding activities of companies not really engaged in any genuine and effective business in the country where they are registered. the establishment of a legal framework for transnational collective agreements will be certainly a step forward, and needless to say an important one to take.
in writing. the question is whether the eu has sufficient resources and will create enough funds to adequately implement measures on mitigation, stabilization and adaptation on emissions. generally speaking, the eu budget - in its present format - cannot deal efficiently and effectively with issues related to climate change. with the exception of a number of initiatives and programmes the eu budget does not have a clear and integrated strategy to address climate change issues. in this respect, therefore, i am arguing that the creation of a specific 'climate change fund' or a dedicated budget line would significantly improve the eu's capability to effectively address climate change issues from a budgetary and financial perspective. the main source of funding should be coming from the auctioning of emissions under the european emissions trading scheme. it is estimated that the scheme would have the potential of generating annually billions of euros in terms of revenue. this scheme would be dealt with and coordinated by the eu, thus ensuring regional arbitrariness. cross border pollution is best managed at supranational level, especially when it comes to allocation of resources and support, which should be based on needs and highest impact, not pre-allocated to countries or regions.
thank you, madam president, thank you to the rapporteur, mrs zdravkova, thank you to the ombudsman for his great work in his job. i think what unites us in this debate is simple: is defending citizens, is that we all agree that we should defend the rights of citizens, that we should be their shield and that as long as they face the authorities and the bureaucracy that do not treat them well, they do not feel alone, but find us behind them. and so, since these are things that unite us, let us continue to work together. because at a time when finnish citizens feel quite cut off from the european union, it is important that the work of the ombudsman, the commission and the committee on petitions continue to build, brick by brick, citizens' trust in the european union. let us continue to work together to prove ourselves worthy of this trust.
in writing. – the legal framework within the eu relative to equal pay for men and women is widespread. the problem lies with enforcement. it is agreed that discrimination in pay based on gender is diminished by existing legislation. indirect discrimination is still an issue. mostly, this results from economic segregation and in such cases existing legislation is limited in application. evaluation of the legislative framework shows some differences in legislation concerning gender pay gap (gpg). although operative legislation stricto senso has the same scope, existing directives show fundamental differences: a) in 1975 the gpg was considered to be an economic competition issue, an ‘‘integral part of the establishment and functioning of the common market’, while b) the 2006 directive relies on the principle of ‘equal treatment and equal opportunity’. the data show a persistent gap between pay for men and women. the latest figures show a 15% difference between the gross hourly pay of men and women. in the private sector this is more prevalent and the rate rises to 25%. the gpg used to be explained by differences on an individual basis, such as age, education and experience. evidence suggests, however, that these differences play a relatively minor part in the persistence of gpg.
in writing. − far too little fruit and vegetables are eaten in the eu in relation to the who’s recommendations of a minimum 400 grams per day. there is an obesity epidemic among children. this is particularly severe in malta. a high intake of fruit and vegetables reduces the risk of a large number of diseases and prevents overweight. in 2007, organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables underwent a fundamental reform towards greater market orientation. fruit and vegetables are now fully integrated into the single payment system. excessive weight entails a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, high blood pressure and certain forms of cancer. a daily intake of 600 grams for people 11+ should be our target. the commission proposes an allocation of eur 90 million in the community budget. that corresponds to one piece of fruit one day a week for 30 weeks a year and covers children aged 6-10 years. to achieve all the positive effects of introducing a school fruit scheme, there must be increased funding. a school fruit scheme should consist of a portion of fruit per pupil per day and not only be aimed at school children aged 6-10.
i would like to welcome the reports by ewa klamt and patrick gaubert on the blue card and the single application. i think this is the first time that we are actually opening a window, so to speak, on legal immigration policy. i think that they are therefore important reports because they will be the basis for our future policy in this important area. it also gives, for the first time, legal means to immigrants who want to enter the territory of the european union from outside the european union in order to be able to work among us. we must, however, keep all this in the context of the clear policy we are pursuing. in my view, the policy we should pursue on legal immigration should be based on the right of the member states of the european union to retain full control over the number of workers granted entry, and the principle of community preference, already mentioned, which gives preference to citizens of the european union over non-eu citizens. on the basis of this context, i think we can develop not only a legal migration policy, dealing with the blue card for highly skilled workers but, going forward, also other proposals which i know the commission will come up with later in the coming months, on the possibility of work also for workers who are less qualified. i think that what we are saying today, we must also keep it in the context of our policy on illegal and irregular immigration. i say this because if we are not credible on immigration policy we cannot expect people to trust us to open our markets on legal immigration policy. i think that the two go together and it is important that one goes with the other, otherwise we cannot move forward. in the field of illegal immigration policy there are a number of outstanding issues that are already before us to consider, such as for example the law on sanctions against employers of workers from outside the european union, effectively illegal immigrants; the commission has also proposed a new law to make the law more clearly punishable for employing illegal immigrants in order to present a deterrent against the influx of illegal immigration as well. there is then a proposal that the european commission has already announced will come out later in the coming weeks on the revision of the dublin law on the responsibility of countries when it comes to receiving asylum applications from incoming migrants. this is a proposal we look forward to with great anticipation. in conclusion, i think it is also worth recalling that if we had had the treaty of lisbon in force today, the legal basis for these proposals would have been different from what it is today. the lisbon treaty was to give a new and powerful impetus to the european union to provide a solution in the field of immigration. i think that those who are against the lisbon treaty need not be happy that european immigration policy is not so strong to date.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by pointing out to mr almunia that he has rightly stressed three very important aspects of the recovery process. a strong enough action first. from this point of view, a point and a half of gdp is a stimulus target which seems to me to be quite important, given the amounts at stake. secondly, to take account of the differences in the situation between member states. he rightly stressed that not all countries are, i dare say, on the same page in terms of economic or budgetary reality, but that this does not exempt them from a truly coordinated effort, which is what the presidency intends to work on between now and the european council. i am convinced that this will enable us in time, although i do not know the term yet, to get back to growth and employment. mr gauzès, i wanted to say that you have rightly emphasized that all our efforts are directed towards financing the real economy. if we are helping the banks, it is so that they can invest in this economy and there is no other purpose than this, in particular - and you were right to insist - the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that the council sent messages to the commission yesterday on aid to banks, and it is clear that we want flexibility and speed of decision in relation to the support that can be given to banks and financial institutions in the present circumstances. i think the council has been heard and i wanted to tell you, mr gauzès, how much the council shares your concern for effective regulation, as many colleagues have said, many members of the european parliament, rating agencies at european level, i would add at world level. mr rasmussen, i wanted to point out that, although your speech was addressed more to the commission, i agree with your insistence that no market segment should escape regulation or supervision. if there is one message that we have found, it is a lack of regulation in certain market segments. this regulation must therefore be improved and sometimes created where it is indispensable. this is a strong message from the washington summit on 15 november, and europe will of course have to work on this, including on hedge funds. mr dăianu, it is true that the regulation of financial markets must be coordinated at international level; the european union has therefore convened the washington summit. i believe that this united european voice was decisive for this meeting, for this meeting to be able to draw up a kind of road map for a real regulation of the international financial system, and this because europe was able to work effectively on its own programme. mrs harms, the recovery plan specifically proposes to invest in the long term, perhaps not enough for your liking, but at least it does. mr kozlík, i wanted to say that we must support the agricultural policy and the other major european policies. you mentioned energy policy, and i think you were right to do so. these are priorities and must remain so, even in these difficult times. mr garcía-margallo, i believe that the action of the european central bank has been decisive in overcoming the difficulties we have experienced until recently, and its president has clearly indicated that inflation is falling in europe and that he therefore sees, as a number of members of the european parliament have noted, new room for manoeuvre for monetary policy. i think mrs ferreira was rather harsh about the european union's reaction. on the contrary, i believe that the european union has responded quickly to the crisis by taking strong decisions in a very short time thanks to good cooperation between our institutions - the commission, the council and the european parliament - for which i thank you. as regards support for smes, we will have a discussion shortly on the decisions taken at the competitiveness council on the adoption of a european-style small business act, and i believe that europe was also present there on the financing of smes and the central role they should play, including in times of economic downturn. mrs in't veld, you are right to point out that the short-term recovery must be based on long-term structural reforms within the framework of the lisbon strategy. this strategy has never been more essential, particularly in this period of economic downturn, and structural reforms must be able to take place in this period. mr martin, i understand your call for joint action to identify the real priorities. mr schinas, we had rules, but those rules didn't work, that's the reality. and so we need rules, but rules which are effective, not over-regulation, of course, but a real framework adapted to european competitiveness. mrs gottardi, i wanted to say that i fully share your concern to combat tax evasion. the french presidency has made this a priority at european and international level. i also wanted to say that i share your very pertinent remarks on the need for effective economic recovery. mrs starkevičiūtė, i agree that the normal downturn in the financial sector is an integral part of the recovery of the european economy, and this in a coordinated way. mr purvis, i agree that we must move towards greater solidarity, which is important, and that is what we are proposing by supporting the reform of the international financial system on the institutions born in bretton woods, in particular the international monetary fund, a universal institution which is politically legitimate and which, i am convinced, will have a stronger role in the years to come. you have raised the problem of vat. the presidency is in favour of a vat cut targeted at labour-intensive sectors which cannot be relocated. mr. rübig, the same subject. vat is an instrument which can certainly support activity, and in particular employment, if it is reduced, but it can only be targeted vat cuts, which can therefore be quite appropriate. but there is a debate, as you know, which is not yet settled in this area. mrs ţicǎu, i believe that one of the acquis of the commission's proposals for the revival of activity is concrete, specific, but also sustainable and structural investment, and i fully agree with you on this point. mr hudacký, yes, the european investment bank is a very important tool for economic recovery, including through various investments. i think that's something fundamental. we shall have the opportunity to see this during the council debates next week. mr tannock, i do believe, however, as does the whole council, that we need a concerted but reversible recovery now, of course, when growth returns. in conclusion, i would like to say to you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate and all your questions have been very important, very interesting for the council. this shows that there is broad agreement among us on the need to make a strong and coherent european voice heard in international forums. the support of the european parliament is essential. in that regard, i want to thank you. i am convinced that we must rethink the whole way we look at the financial system, at its regulation. this must be done at european level but also taking into account the solutions that have been found at global level, because if there is a lesson to be learned from this crisis, it is that the financial system now has a truly global dimension; the european union is the world's largest exporter of arms and is the world's largest importer of weapons.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr novelli, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for your comments, your observations and the attention you have paid to the commission's initiatives and, in particular, to the recovery plan we are discussing this afternoon. i will not repeat many of the answers mr novelli has just given. i agree with virtually all of your comments on the speeches by the members who have spoken. i do want to address six points very quickly. firstly, i agree with those who have said, starting with mr gauzès, that the credit problem is extremely serious and is the origin of the problems facing the real economy, which are profound. we have already discussed yesterday at ecofin how to make the recapitalisation and guarantee programmes which have been and are being adopted by the various member states more effective. there is a lot of taxpayers' money at stake, a lot of resources have gone into securing the performance of banks and financial institutions or providing capital to those institutions. now it is a question of credit flowing and the economy finding that instrument so necessary for its functioning. as it is not working well, the economic forecasts to which mr rasmussen referred, which i presented a month ago, are unfortunately no longer those which i would present today. that is why i also announced to the ministers yesterday that i will present new economic forecasts on 19 january. in the meantime, the international monetary fund, the oecd, tomorrow the european central bank and other institutions have published even more worrying estimates for 2009 than those reflected in the commission's forecasts of 3 november. second comment: certainly in financial services, there's going to be more regulation, there's more regulation. just yesterday, on the commission's initiative, the council, as mr jouyet said earlier, gave political approval to at least four commission initiatives, if i remember correctly, concerning the regulation of various aspects of financial markets or services. existing regulations must be changed, areas that were not regulated must be regulated, the quality of regulation and the way in which the application of those rules is monitored at european and global level must be improved. that's all we're talking about. let me say to you, because the decision on a draft directive such as solvency ii is already coming to parliament, that the reaction in the council is still not always up to the statements of the council itself on what needs to be done in the field of financial regulation and supervision, and parliament knows this, because it has been in talks with the council in connection with that directive. there is no agreement on how to better coordinate supervisory actions in the insurance sector. we need to find agreement very quickly on such supervision at european level, and we are already talking about a college of supervisors for entities operating on a global scale. hedge funds: we are based on the principle that their activity must be regulated, we have said so in the commission, the council has said so, the washington meeting has said so. the high-level group chaired by jacques de la rosière is looking at, among other things, this element. commissioner mccreevy appeared before the econ committee yesterday. the commission president in this house, with me present, has repeated to the honourable members in his last appearances that the commission is going to regulate hedge funds and we are going to do so. to what extent, in what aspects, what parts of the hedge fund business should be regulated that does not only affect hedge funds - that is the discussion, with such important contributions as the work and report made by this parliament on the initiative of mr rasmussen. i fully agree with those who have spoken about investment, about the need to link the necessary investment, the medium-term vision, with the energy and climate change package. i agree with those who say, without thereby jeopardizing the independence of the european central bank or other central banks, that monetary policy has margins. it's obvious. inflation in the euro area at the end of november was 2.1%, according to eurostat. we were talking about inflation, about figures that doubled that percentage, just a few months ago and that margin is being exploited. tomorrow the central bank is meeting here in brussels; i do not know what it is going to do, but i hear the statements made by president trichet and they are quite clear on this point. the stability and growth pact: the pact is clear, the pact says that deviation from a deficit above 3% causes the opening of an excessive deficit procedure, with only one exception: that the economic situation is exceptional, and we are in an exceptional economic situation. second condition, simultaneous with the first: that the deviation is temporary, and temporary does not mean several years, it means one year. and third condition, which is simultaneous with the previous two: that the deviation does not take the deficit figure away from the reference value, and that is what we are talking about, mr garcía-margallo. and finally, in relation to mr parish and some other member who has mentioned the question of value added tax, the document, the commission's plan, includes a range of instruments which can be used to provide a fiscal stimulus, and one of them is undoubtedly the reduction of such a major tax, or the rate of such a major tax as vat. but it is also true that the commission does not force anyone to do so; read the plan and you will see that there is no obligation to do so, and there could be no less. and thirdly, and this is information derived from yesterday's discussion at ecofin, only one member state of the 27 expressed its support for using this instrument yesterday, and it is the member state which has already used it.
in writing. – the financial crisis has created major challenges for the eu and the global economy. coordinated efforts by member states have been effective in stabilizing the eu banking system, but much remains to be done to contain the propagation of the crisis into the wider economy and protect households, businesses and jobs. in an interdependent world, tackling these challenges could be an opportunity for the eu to take the lead in bringing clarity, social responsibility and predictability to the global financial architecture. any implementation of mitigation measures has to be timely, comprehensive and accompanied by appropriate regulatory action addressing the root causes of the crisis. particular attention should be given to regulation regarding new financial products, such as sub-prime mortgages and their derivatives, as well as the entities that are involved in their marketing, such as banks, hedge funds and private equity. there is a need to review the business model of rating agencies and the legal standing of their ratings. in the recovery process we must give priority to solutions that protect jobs, growth and the most vulnerable, promote economic energy and stability, while ensuring that parties with vested interests in maintaining the status quo are kept at a distance.
in writing. – a significant part of the european population lives in the coastal regions. most do not realise that the european mainland coast stretches for almost 90000 km. the development of sustainable tourism as opposed to seasonal tourism has to be encouraged. it is only through product diversification and alternative forms of tourism such as business, conference, cultural, medical, sport, agricultural, language and sea related tourism that this can be achieved. promoting traditional coastal tourism however remains a priority. in my country we are endeavouring to increase the size and quantity of sand beaches. unfortunately to date this has been approached in an amateurish fashion. dumping sand on existing beaches or creating new sandy beaches without undertaking the necessary infrastructural works is just a waste of resources. extending or creating sandy beaches has been taking place in many other countries and territories for years. the difference is that it was approached firstly by putting into place the necessary infrastructural works to accumulate sand naturally and prevent its erosion. and in this context one additional and important aspect which appears to be lacking in relation to current proposals to malta's largest sandy beach l-ghadira - is respect and sensitivity to the immediate environment.
the rapporteur . − this report was prepared because the european parliament received almost 400 petitions from citizens, mostly from small businesses that fell victim to deceptive practices because they ended up being listed in a business directory without ever wanting to enter it. normally victims receive such a form, are asked to fill it out, are given the impression that if they fill it out it will be entered in a directory for free, but after signing it they receive a letter and realise that in fact they have entered into a three-year contract, and each year they have to pay around eur1000. this is what happens to the victims of these directories that we are claiming to be fraudulent directories. i would say that the most mentioned company in the petitions is the company that has the directory called european city guide - a company that is also worth mentioning that put a lot of pressure on the members of this parliament to either stop or weaken the reports we are presenting today but fortunately they did not succeed even sometimes with the information they gave us which was not so correct. what do we find in this report? the report did indeed find that there is a real problem. we found that the problem is widespread, across the eu, we found that it affects many small businesses but also people such as professionals or other individuals who are not necessarily in business. we found that it affects businesses on a transnational basis in different countries, we found that it has a very strong financial impact and we also found and this is important that it also has a serious psychological impact on an individual who is in business who receives this form, signs it, ends up a victim of it then they chase after him a lot to get him to pay. what are we proposing in this report? in this report i shall first list measures to raise awareness so that there are fewer victims in the first place. secondly, we must ensure that existing eu laws are properly enforced. i would like to say that the commission has always told us that it is up to the member states at national level to implement eu law. we know this but i would like to remind the commission that it is the duty of the european commission to see that eu laws are effectively implemented in eu countries. we are also proposing that european laws be changed to make them better and specifically address this problem. for example, we found the austrian model to be good because austria has changed its national law to specifically address these deceptive business directories. finally, we also want to help victims by advising them not to pay the fees charged unless they receive valuable advice. before concluding i would like to thank the committee on petitions very much for the unanimous support it gave to this report, i thank my staff and i also thank the secretariat of the committee - mr david lowe and i thank him very much. the report if adopted will send two clear messages - first to victims that we understand their problem and are fully behind them, and second to the deceitful commercial directories that we are telling them 'stop your deceitful practices immediately, act now because parliament is watching you closely'.
in writing. − i strongly agree with the importance to be attached to the relations of the european union with its neighbours, especially in the mediterranean. the kingdom of morocco has always insisted on having the closest relations with the european union and it should be our duty to ensure that this cooperation continues to grow and strengthen.
in writing. − i believe it is very important that countries like albania are given the necessary encouragement to continue on the path of preparations that will lead them to membership of the european union. the stabilisation of the association pact is a very good step in this direction.
in writing. − considering that croatia is a candidate country to become a member of the european union, i think that the association pact is an important step to further bring this country closer to the european family.
in writing. − this is a report which clarifies certain aspects which were previously unclear and could therefore be misinterpreted. the new provisions guarantee greater transparency in the procedures and ensure that the traffic volume and the balance sheet are not affected. it is an agreement that will regularize with special provisions where there has been a previous breach of competition law through a separate bilateral agreement.
in writing. −i agree with the rapporteur on the importance to be attached to security and the fight against counterfeiters. this is a fight that must be fought every day because fake money in hand weakens the economy of the whole european union, not just those countries that are partners in the euro area. unfortunately, the criminals who are part of this illicit activity are updating themselves with new technology and other tools every day, so it is very important to give all the help and resources at our disposal so that the authorities, both jointly european and those of each individual country, have everything necessary to continue fighting this fight.
in writing. − i fully agree with the rapporteur that we should limit the chance of those who want to save as much as possible by making provision to ensure that there is a clear distinction between legal tender and other currencies, thus limiting as much as possible the abuse.
in writing. − given the bad times the world economy in general, and the european economy in particular, has been through, it is important to ensure that all the necessary measures are taken to achieve stability that can help it to move forward and recover from this negative year.
i would also like to congratulate the french presidency especially for its achievement on the treaty of lisbon. i refer only to the question of the number of commissioners and i would like to welcome the decision to have one commissioner from each member state and to introduce this as a principle. first of all, it is worth recalling that the reduction in the number of commissioners was already agreed in 2000 in the treaty of nice and was not being introduced for the first time in the treaty of lisbon. i therefore think that this agreement is important and should be welcomed because it is important that each country feels that it has a member in the commission. why is that? first, because of the confidence that everyone should have in the commission. twenty-nine, the contribution that each country, small or large, has to make to the commission. not because the member of the commission is representing the interests of his country but because the member of the commission wants to see that no interest of any country is overlooked. finally, the commission's efficiency depends not so much on the number of commissioners as on its internal organisation. i think that the commission present with 27 members has shown that it is efficient in the organisation it has. so i think that every fever can be taken well. in a sense, thanks to the irish people, we now agree on the principle of one commissioner for each member country. i therefore now hope that the irish people will also support this principle.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their hard work. i would like to refer to the budget allocated to the area of justice and home affairs, especially in the area of immigration, where there are two particular points i would like to make reference to. first of all: we have increased the budget for the third consecutive year for the frontex agency - i think this is a positive sign. we add not because we are happy with the work of the frontex agency, but precisely because we are not happy: we want this agency to do more; we want to make this agency more effective. we have therefore put enough money into, for example, the maritime missions that the frontex agency has to do on a permanent basis. second point: put an additional eur 5 000 000 into the european refugee fund to set up a european-based internal relocation programme between european union countries, so that people arriving in a country with a disproportionate burden can move, through this programme, to another european union country. we are talking about 'resettlement' or 'relocation'. this fund, this money, will enable us to run this programme for the first time, and i hope that this programme can now, through these funds, be put into operation, because it is important to help those countries which are disproportionately burdened. i therefore think that, now that we have put the funds in next year's budget in these two areas, we will be able to make progress.
i voted to keep the opt-out and obviously i am not happy and i am not satisfied with the result of today's vote. but i must say that i do not accept the accusation that those who are in favour of maintaining the opt-out are against the workers, or that we have an antisocial agenda. what do i say? why is it considered anti-worker because it wants workers to retain the right to decide how many hours they work per week? why is it considered anti-working simply to see that those who want to work more to earn more can do so? maybe because he needs a pay raise or maybe he needs to pay off his home loan - and with today's vote he won't be able to do that. i therefore voted to keep the opt-out because i am in favour of keeping the choice in the hands of the workers.
in writing. − one of the cleanest methods of transport is by water. the report relates to inland waterway vessels, but i believe that this mode of transportation cannot be disassociated from the larger picture of transport by sea. the two types of water transport are inland and sea transport and both are energy efficient. transporting a product on water produces about one percent (1%) of the carbon dioxide that would be produced by carrying the same item the same distance by air. we have to be careful when making regulations which affect this type of transportation. we must not overload industry in relation to shipping and inland waterway boats and barges as the end result may turn out to be the opposite of our intentions. should water and sea transport become uncompetitive, custom may well be directed to other means of transport. all other alternatives leave a larger carbon footprint. in the end, instead of reducing greenhouse gas emissions we would have put in place a set of rules and regulations which will ultimately defeat the general scope of our proposals.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would like to thank first of all my colleague javier moreno sánchez for his report and also thank him for being open to our ideas and our amendments to the conclusions of his report. i cannot say, mr president, that i am happy with frontex and its work. indeed, at the end of this summer, the chief executive of frontex, with reference to the mission in the mediterranean called nautilus, said that this mission was a failure. so how can i be content? i couldn't be happier. i think i expected the chief executive to say, not that the mission was a failure, but how the mission should be a success and how frontex should be effective. i would say that, despite this, the european parliament has always been clear in its support for the frontex agency, as the commissioner rightly said. the budget has been increased year after year, and tomorrow, when we vote on the budget, we will increase the budget of this agency again, also to make its missions permanent and to make it more effective. how can we make frontex more effective? firstly, yes, by looking at how we can extend its mandate as has already been said, as has been said by the commissioner and also in the report. we also need to strengthen its effectiveness by looking at how we can get member countries to honour the promises they make when pledging the means for frontex missions. so far, as the commissioner said, they have not honoured the promises they made. and i think we have to get to that situation or we have to look at the possibility that frontex has its means. the second point to increase effectiveness is international cooperation. recently, a delegation of the european parliament visited senegal to see firsthand how cooperation between spain and senegal is working and this type of cooperation we want to replicate in other areas, in other parts and in other zones such as the mediterranean and even around greece. in conclusion, some would say that frontex is, in some way, not protecting or has no mandate to protect human rights. i do not agree with this at all, and i would even say that if it were not for frontex, many more people would die or drown than actually do. so i say that already frontex is helping to protect life and human rights. but we must do more, we must make frontex more effective - and if it is effective, we achieve two goals at the same time: firstly, to stop illegal voyages and secondly, to stop the human tragedy that is still happening in our seas and that is a disgrace to us all.
in writing. – this initiative seeks to establish a clear and comprehensive legal framework to further generalise recognition and facilitate the implementation of authentic acts. until now, the recognition of authentic acts among member states has been handled inconsistently, creating legal uncertainty and unpredictability for citizens and businesses. by creating a common system for the mutual recognition and enforcement of authentic acts the european union will benefit in terms of time savings, lower costs and even more importantly by the adoption of simplified procedures. it would also promote the movement of authentic acts by making them more secure. the enforceability of the authentic act and its superior probative value would contribute to the economic development and integration of the union by facilitating the movement of goods and services. this is especially relevant in a time of economic crisis and i would like to see the implementation of this legislation as soon as possible. i also welcome the fact that this report has is limited in scope to authentic acts and respects the particularity of private agreements and other intermediary categories of acts.
in writing. − although we have devised many strategies for lifelong learning their implementation leaves much to be desired. levels of commitment and expenditure vary from country to country. unfortunately positive trends in public spending on education generally have staggered. an adequate share of the budget has to be allocated to adult learning. this is necessary as adult participation in lifelong learning does not appear to be on track. greater effort needs to be made to raise skills in the adult population and to achieve flexibility and security across the labour market. employers should be encouraged to arrange education and training for their employees. incentives to enable low skilled workers to participate in learning programmes are recommendable. special serious consideration has to be given to long-term unemployed, especially those from a disadvantaged social background, people with special needs, young people from institutions, former prisoners and rehabilitated drug users.
in writing. − this is a very important report and one which should be the basis of many decisions in the future. the use of ict in the judicial field facilitates a great deal of work of the judiciary and the administration. in an increasingly integrated and economically but also socially connected europe, it is good to have the necessary tools to keep up with the times and the ejustice concept does just that. we do not want to forget that the systems used before had their advantages as well and therefore i say that if the right balance is found we will be able to work in more harmony for the benefit of everyone, especially the judiciary which with these advances in the field of ejustice will be able to concentrate exclusively on its own work without the extra burden of administration.
