mr president, before we get to the agenda, i would like a little clarification on an item on the agenda for tomorrow morning, which you have already mentioned: the address by the grand mufti of syria. his will be the first of a series of speeches by religious leaders before the plenary of this house in the context of the european year of intercultural dialogue. i would like to know why the conference of presidents has chosen to interpret intercultural dialogue exclusively as an interreligious monologue and whether it feels a part-session is an appropriate platform for religious messages. (applause) finally, i would like to know whether the conference of presidents is willing to consider widening the list of guest speakers and making it more representative by including women and non-religious organisations. the alde group has suggested that ms jahangir, the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, should be invited to address the plenary as well. i hope you can enlighten me. (applause)
mr president, transport emissions account for one fifth of greenhouse gas emissions. the number of cars per thousand inhabitants is increasing rapidly all over the world. so cars really need to become sustainable. but this is a message that is only weakly conveyed in the commission's response to the cars 21 report and in the report itself. the document talks about making cars cleaner and it talks about the competitiveness of the car industry. but the link between the two is not being made, when it is clear that sustainable and fuel-efficient cars are the future. indian and chinese automakers are taking over the world with small, fuel-efficient, clean, and affordable cars. the european car industry is now fighting a back-and-forth battle to get a little more co2 into the atmosphere. so it is a pity for the environment, but also for employment in the european union. the cars 21 high-level group is a missed opportunity to put forward a vision of a sustainable automotive industry, a vision that responds to the real challenges. innovation is the key word here. in the united states, a hydrogen highway is being built and the market is being prepared for electric cars. what about the european initiatives? some car manufacturers have prototypes ready, but there's no hydrogen on the road yet. it is time to join hands to make rapid progress through cooperation between governments and industry. research alone is not enough. the setting up of high-level groups is in itself a very good idea, but unfortunately cars 21 was dominated by a conservative industry. it is really important that the high-level groups have a composition that does justice to the challenges we face. in the years to come, millions of new cars will be coming onto the market, and it would really help if they were clean and economical.
mr president, i think the car lobby's frantic efforts to delay the most necessary environmental measures for as long as possible are succeeding. time and again, members of this house seem to be sensitive to this lobby. first mr davies and now also mr chatzimarkakis. waiting until 2015 to substantially reduce co2 emissions from cars is really irresponsible. in addition, it is technically possible to reach 120 grams per kilometer by 2012, and the current situation is due solely to the automobile industry itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce emissions. it turns out that only the setting of mandatory standards will work. we expect the european citizens to make sacrifices to save our climate. why not ask the car industry the same? so, up to 120 grams of co2 per kilometer by 2012.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0141 (cns)) (rapporteur: mr pimenta). major airports with an important role as international connecting points, or as access to a metropolitan area, have become shopping centres, offices and distribution companies, public transport hubs on the ground and toll gates to the surrounding area. they are either an important policy tool in the hands of the government or they have been sold to an international corporation that only seeks profit and expansion. they also make profits outside the aviation sector, are part of an international competition and find themselves in conflicts of interest with airlines, passengers, fellow users and local residents. airports can be abused by forcing anyone who depends on them - from airlines to passengers - to contribute disproportionately to profits. such expensive airports also lead to the emergence of competing, smaller airports in their immediate vicinity, with lower fares, poorer facilities, even more space requirements and even more congested areas. the european union's objective in setting rules for airport revenues should not be to secure profits for these companies or to limit costs for airlines, nor to boost air traffic by offering passengers the lowest possible fares. the aim must be to protect the environment as much as possible against the ever-growing expansion of aviation and to protect safety as much as possible. it should also be transparent, so that cash flows and unjustified tariff differences are no longer covered by trade secrets. the outcome is now that airports with between 1 and 5 million passengers per year will be exempted from these rules. i would not be surprised if this resulted in more investment being made in smaller airports in densely populated areas. the text will also be moderated in relation to the commission's original proposal on other aspects, such as the complaints procedure, the strictness of the requirements and the level of profits. i expect this to lead to continued abuse and within a few years to calls for stricter rules.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airports are not exploited in the same way as other airports. i am particularly satisfied with three points. first of all, the adjustment of the scope. not all airports are in a position to abuse their position. the concentration on larger airports is therefore useful and i therefore disagree with some of the previous speakers. i am also pleased that the possibility of differentiating rates has been included. given the negative environmental impacts of aviation at and around airports, the differentiation tool could provide an incentive to use cleaner and quieter aircraft. i also share the view that we must be careful not to place too heavy an administrative burden on airports. in the context of transparency, they should disclose certain information, but they should do so with a strict eye on costs and confidentiality. i would like to conclude by making a comment on amendment no 19. while i welcome the existence of an independent supervisory body, i believe that the wording of amendment no 19 may cause problems in some countries, since both the setting up of procedures and their supervision are assigned to one and the same organization. i hope that the discussions with the council will provide an opportunity to resolve this point to my satisfaction. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and look forward to the further consideration of this report.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i should first like to thank and congratulate the european parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as mrs mann and the committee on industry, research and energy for their excellent reports and the opinion delivered at the first reading. over the last 30 years, european union policies and legislation to protect public health and the environment have made significant progress in reducing the risks from chemicals, not only in the european union but also on a global scale. the european union has always been an important partner in international conventions, including the rotterdam convention on the consent procedure for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. regulation 304/2003 of the european parliament and of the council on the import and export of dangerous chemicals applies the rotterdam convention within the community. in many respects the regulation goes beyond the provisions of the rotterdam convention and goes further by offering a higher level of protection for countries importing chemicals. by judgment of 10 january 2006, the court of justice of the european communities annulled regulation no 304 of 2003 on the ground that it should be based on a dual legal basis. the court of justice has held that the court of first instance did not have jurisdiction to hear the appeal. the aim of this proposal is therefore to adopt a new regulation based on the twofold legal basis referred to above. at the same time, the commission, on the basis of a report on the experience gained so far in the application of the relevant procedures, has proposed a number of technical amendments to the provisions of the regulation. this report was submitted to the european parliament and the council together with this proposal. the main amendments proposed by the commission to the regulation are as follows: first, limited exceptions are proposed to the central condition of explicit consent in importing countries before export. exemptions shall only apply if, despite the reasonable efforts of the commission and the national authority designated by the exporting country, the request is not met and if certain conditions are met. these exceptions seek to provide some flexibility while maintaining a high level of protection, even higher than that provided by the rotterdam convention. secondly, it is proposed to exempt from the requirement of explicit consent in cases of export of chemicals to oecd countries, provided certain conditions are met. thirdly, the rules on the duration of explicit consents are clarified. express consents and the admissibility of alternative evidence shall also be reviewed at regular intervals. fourth, procedures and means are put in place to facilitate customs authorities' access to information, because in most member states these authorities play a major role in ensuring compliance with the regulation, particularly with regard to export controls. madam president, i welcome the efforts of all of us to reach agreement on this regulation at first reading. the european commission can accept the compromise package of proposals to reach an agreement at first reading.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, as rapporteur on the import and export of chemicals, i am pleased to say that we have achieved a good result in the first reading. i want to thank everyone who has worked on this. i am thinking in particular of the secretariat of the committee on the environment and the shadow rapporteurs and their staff who have been very good to me. i have greatly appreciated the good cooperation with the council, particularly with the portuguese presidency, and with the european commission. it was a technically complicated proposal, sometimes with heated debate about what was best for the environment. i think the most important thing we have achieved is that this new regulation will make the trade in dangerous chemicals ethical. we have tried to apply the principle known as the golden rule: "what you do not want done to you, do not do to another". although this is an old principle, found in the bible as well as in other religions, this aspect has led to the necessary discussions. the commission's original proposal contained a very extensive system for allowing exports of dangerous chemicals to proceed with tacit approval. this was proposed, whereas it is important, particularly for developing countries, that there is complete clarity about what is being imported. we are talking about substances which are banned or severely restricted in the european union. i believe that we have come to a good agreement. this means that the protection and awareness of developing countries regarding dangerous substances is guaranteed. president, this new regulation is a good implementation of the global rotterdam convention, which was signed in 1998 but has officially entered into force since 2004. i would therefore strongly recommend that everyone vote tomorrow before the agreement reached with the council. finally, mr president, i would like to call for the council and the commission to do their utmost to extend the list of substances in the rotterdam convention. at present, there are some 40 substances on the list of that convention. there are at least 200 substances on the nomination to be assessed and possibly added to that list. the other substances must be dealt with urgently, in order to protect the developing countries in particular.
member of the commission. - madam president, i thank all the speakers for their positive contributions. i fully recognize and share parliament's desire for a high level of protection of human health and the environment, particularly in those countries which do not have the necessary infrastructure and capacity to properly manage hazardous chemicals. i also fully share the view that the european community should play a leading role in establishing a community legal framework which ensures a high level of protection. in many respects the regulation goes beyond the provisions of the rotterdam convention and establishes conditions of application which offer a high level of protection for all countries of the world and not just the parties to the convention. i am convinced that this example will encourage other countries to follow suit and accede to the convention. the commission will make every effort to support the rotterdam convention in order to achieve these objectives. in response to the concerns regarding arsenic and mercury, the commission would like to stress that, in accordance with article 22 (3) of regulation 304 of 2003, if metallic arsenic is banned or severely restricted in the community, then a proposal will be submitted to adapt the relevant annex. it also recalls that work is under way in the council and parliament on a proposal for a ban on mercury exports to countries outside the community, which, if it is adopted, goes beyond the requirement of consent imposed by the rotterdam convention and the community regulation implementing it. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs once again for their efforts and their excellent work, and in particular mr blokland. the commission is very satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and considers all the proposed compromise amendments acceptable. as regards the double legal basis, it would indeed be much easier and simpler if we had only one legal basis, but you know the problem that arises in many cases, here we have - if i remember correctly - articles 133 to 175 and in other cases - most of them - we have articles 95 to 175. of course, whenever we propose a legal basis, we always rely on the opinion of our legal service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the problem was that when i was rapporteur, i had a visit from the council presidency and the council presidency said: 'we have unanimously in the council major problems with the legal basis 'trade'; we want to make it environmentally friendly, on the advice of our legal service". the european parliament consulted the legal service of the parliament, and our legal service was also absolutely convinced that the legal basis should not be 'trade' but 'environment'. on that basis we came to this conclusion - almost unanimously, at least in the council. it would have been better not to have referred the matter to the court but to have sat down with the commissioner, the council presidency and parliament to try to find a political solution to the problem. what happened now? yes, thankfully the regulation has come into force. it worked; the council was in a hurry, parliament was in a hurry. but there was a lot of debate, and it ultimately led to everyone being wrong: the commission, the council and parliament. the court has delivered a sort of solomon's judgment and said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and in a situation like that, you're at the point where we're all wrong, where it's years of delay. fortunately, not to the detriment of the developing countries, for the work has simply continued. anyway, we've been able to deal with this for a while. i think we should avoid these problems together in the future. we also raised this issue with commissioner dimas when he had his briefing with parliament's committee on the environment. we also raised the problem with commissioner verheugen and with the president of the commission, mr barroso, during the three hearings. we certainly got the impression at the time that it was not so much a decision of the european commission to go to the court of justice as a decision of the legal service. i think that it should no longer be left to the lawyers but to the politicians to solve this problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. my colleague mr őry has just said that. the coordination regulation we are discussing today is in fact an annual adjustment of the national legislation. the member states should actually - and then there would be no problem - test every piece of legislation or every amendment to social or fiscal legislation to see whether it is also europe-proof. if the result were clear, then there would be no need for adjustments later on. i have tabled a number of amendments with mr őry, and i think that each member state should look at the annual adjustment to see whether all the proposals made in the administrative consultation are in line with the realities of europe. mr president, we have tabled two or three amendments. the first two, 7 and 8, concern the health insurance of members of the family of military personnel resident in belgium or germany. the dutch military are not covered by the health insurance law, which means that their family members could not get insurance and had to join an increasingly expensive fund. the dutch government has written to the house asking the european parliament to adopt the amendments, as this is the quickest solution. the third amendment - amendment no 10 - concerns the dutch law on childcare. a family living in the netherlands and working on the other side of the border was not entitled to childcare allowance. that has now been settled by a change in the law. so that means that for a lot of people, because of our persistence, we've accomplished a number of things. i also thank all those colleagues who were not deterred by all the arguments of the second reading but who followed us, which enabled us to achieve a great deal.
president. - i thank mr őry for his excellent work. i would like to emphasize one thing in the short time i have to speak. not all the lack of coordination of social security systems is due to regulation. many of the problems that arise are the result of the implementation of these rules, which is the responsibility of the member states themselves. the work on the öry report has brought to light some of these practical problems. that's exactly what coordination is all about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am therefore glad that the council presidents consult parliament from time to time, including on annexes xi and vi to regulation 883, for which i am the rapporteur. it is of the utmost importance that the council's work on this regulation and its annexes be completed within this parliament's mandate. i wish the next council presidents every success in this task.
president. - i should like to thank my colleague and friend, mr kurt lechner, for his report and for his constructive cooperation. the commissioner and the council too, because the trialogue was long! we were unable to reach a compromise, but we were a millimeter away from it; so i am glad that we are going to vote on that same compromise on wednesday morning and i assume that we will achieve it. - why? - why? we've been talking about it for seven years. if we as politicians want to appear credible to the market and our citizens, to the consumers, but also to the sector and industry, then it is important that we finally take a decision. a compromise is always a give and take, and of course there are aspects that can be improved, but that applies to all parties. a compromise is just adding water to the wine and then you have a result and you have to be satisfied with that. i think, mr president, that the plan as it stands is in the interests of the consumer, but also in the interests of the financial sector. we must work on this, and this is in the interests of europe and the single market.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cashman, for his report, which i have always considered to be a great ally in the fight to defend fundamental rights. my disagreement with the rapporteur is not about substance, about content, but about strategy. it may be a strategy to give up a few priorities in exchange for support from the council, but does the council offer us enough to let go of our own desires? not that i've ever seen. and in that case, i prefer to just make a point. the alde amendments propose four additional priorities, namely homophobia, privacy, counter-terrorism policy and fundamental rights, and discrimination against roma. let these be the four main areas where member states are constantly violating fundamental rights. the fundamental rights office should have become a watchdog to keep the member states on the right track. but unfortunately, that did not work out. it's already become a toothless tiger anyway. i think - and i have listened to what commissioner frattini has just said - that the european parliament, as the main partner of the fundamental rights office, should simply set clear priorities of its own. i am not sure that the council is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. so, ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that i agree with the rapporteur on the substance - i will discuss it in my group - but i cannot support the strategy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have before us a proposal from the european commission to extend the programme which uses the most modern technologies to monitor our european agriculture. after years of research, the scientists involved can rightly feel proud. satellites can be used to monitor the use and condition of the soil, to study the effects of climate change, and even to predict our harvests. this way we can keep a finger on the pulse and predict and correct problems in time, such as this year's failed grain harvest. mr president, i am an engineer by training and this kind of practical application of advanced technology for our welfare makes my heart beat faster. it's a tomtom system for farming. who would have thought? the question now is whether we as a parliament agree to the continuation of research into and use of this application. how could we possibly answer that in the negative? i would advise my colleagues in the socialist group to vote in favour of this directive, but i would like to make a few comments to the commissioner who is with us at this late hour. firstly, i have my doubts about the inclusion of the budget and the programme in the agricultural guarantee fund. until now, this project had its own budget line, which allowed parliament to keep a finger on the pulse and to be regularly informed. despite the proven benefits of the programme, research is still ongoing. i would be very sorry if the commission did not report back to us on the progress and results of this programme, as well as on the cost sheet. as a representative of the people and as a person with an interest in the subject, i would urge that the separate budget line be retained so that we can be kept informed and be able to think along with the rest of the community in the future. secondly, i would like to see all research results made freely available and accessible to other interested parties, such as universities and research institutes. the data provided by mars and lucas can be of great use, especially in the field of climate research. i would like to conclude my maiden speech in this chamber with this call for transparency at all levels. i hope that mrs fischer boel will give me a positive response.
in writing. − in december 2005, the council granted the former yugoslav republic of macedonia candidate status and in june 2006 montenegro was recognised as an independent state. in an urgent procedure without debate, it is now proposed in article 1 of the regulation to grant a european partnership to albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia, including kosovo, and in article 1a to grant an accession partnership to croatia and macedonia. the definitions of both constructions are almost identical. the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal and asks the council to consult parliament again if it wishes to depart from this proposal. the possibility of that deviation occurring seems real to me. the recognition of kosovo's independence, which is expected in a few weeks, is not yet settled. it is also unclear whether this means that macedonia will have to wait longer for the start of accession negotiations, or whether serbia will be given a priority accession perspective. as is well known, the netherlands and belgium oppose the latter as long as war criminal ratko mladić has not been extradited to the icty in the hague. so i expect this item to be back on the agenda, but do not vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr chatzimarkakis because the commission's proposal is more environmentally friendly. the rapporteur proposes a target of 125 grams of co2 per km by 2015. the commission proposal sets a maximum of 120 grams of co2 emissions in 2012, and i have had this brought back as an amendment. this one just didn't make it, though. i wonder where the rapporteur gets the environmentalally inferior product without being influenced by the automobile industry lobby. for years voluntary agreements between the commission and the automobile industry have been in place to reduce co2 emissions. the commission's objective is not a windfall and, according to the automobile industry, is technically feasible and innovative in terms of an export product. however, they will then make temporarily less profit in order to stabilise their competitive position in the future. the argument of loss of employment is being used improperly. i point out that only 6% of the cost of producing new cars is personnel costs. the choice of labour cost savings is independent of the shift to 120 grams of co2 per km in 2012. if the automobile industry chooses to move to low-wage countries, it will.
in writing. - i voted against the chatzimarkakis report with my colleague kartika liotard, because the commission's original proposal is more environmentally friendly. the rapporteur proposes a target of 125 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2015. the commission proposal called for a maximum of 120 grams of co2 emissions in 2012. my group has brought this back as an amendment today, but it has not succeeded. i wonder where the rapporteur gets this environmentally worse proposal from, if it is not influenced by the automobile lobby. voluntary agreements between the commission and the automotive industry to reduce co2 emissions have existed for many years. the commission's objective does not just fall from the sky. the automotive industry considers it technically feasible and can provide an innovative export product. the car manufacturers will thus temporarily lose profits, which they consider to be a detriment to their ability to strengthen their competitive position. the argument that jobs could be lost is being misused. only 6% of the cost of producing new cars is staff. any lower labour costs are independent of the changeover to 120 grams co2 per km in 2012. if the automobile industry wants to move to low-wage countries, a lower standard will not deter it.
mr president, my congratulations to slovenia, and welcome to prime minister janša: only four years a member of the eu and already the european presidency. it means work and responsibility, but it is also a proof of confidence in your young state, president-in-office. what worries and disappoints me – us, i should say – is that an impressive number of meps from very different countries and groups have still not received a clear answer to their repeated request as to whether slovenia is going to host the first annual roma conference. a big thing, but also a huge challenge – and you are not alone. the european commission has offered financial support. moral support comes from the european council which, in the conclusions under point 50, underlines that the eu should appear with concrete steps on roma issues. logistical support comes from the european roma community, who expressed willingness to cooperate closely wherever they can. political support comes from many meps from different groups in this house who are aware of europe’s forgotten nation, the roma, many of them still victims of the latest balkan wars, living as refugees spread all over europe. slovenia had a narrow escape, but it deeply experienced lack of freedom and safety itself. i hope that slovenia will take it as an honour to host the first annual roma conference. it knows it has many supporters – and maybe, i should say, fans.
i would like to return to the situation with regard to serbia. i think it is a good proposal by the slovenian presidency to set up a task force, following the example of croatia, which can help the country to achieve full and effective cooperation with the hague tribunal; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i also call on my own government, the dutch government, to cooperate and follow the slovenian government's proposal and also look at how well that has worked with croatia in the past. the second point i would like to make is about the neighbourhood policy. we now have a new government in ukraine and negotiations are about to begin on a follow-up to the partnership and cooperation agreement with that country. we would like to know what the proposals and ideas of the slovenian government are, what the nature of these negotiations should be and where they should lead. we are not in favour of offering membership to ukraine at the moment; that's not the issue at all. but it is important to offer that country something more concrete in terms of the link between that country and the european union. i would also like to say a few words about the situation with regard to georgia, another country included in the european union's neighbourhood policy. i myself found the european union's reaction to the election results and the election itself to be a little too quick and a little too positive. there have been large demonstrations since then. there is still a debate about the irregularities that took place during those elections. what i think is important now is that both the european union and the presidency take initiatives to at least build a bridge between the opposition in that country and president saakashvili. finally, i would like to make a few comments on the situation with regard to russia. there's a presidential election coming up. it seems that the way has been cleared for the start of negotiations on a new partnership agreement with that country. we believe that the whole issue of energy transparency is particularly important in the negotiations in preparation for the new agreement. but we also want a dialogue with russia on the quality of democracy in the country, in particular also on the problems we have had recently with electoral observation and the way we are looking at it and the way the russians are looking at it. i hope that will also be a theme during the slovenian presidency.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers' interests. at the end of last week, the consultation between the european commission, the council and parliament failed because the rapporteur had insurmountable objections to a compromise proposal on early redemption, with which all the other parties concerned could live. the compromise reached between the pse and alde negotiators, which the european commission and the council were able to accept, has today received broad support from parliament. i am glad that the epp has finally decided to support the compromise, because i am convinced that this compromise is the best possible for consumers and businesses. i would like to thank all those involved, and in particular the rapporteur, for their commitment throughout the process.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. since 2002, kenya has been a major example of democracy and stability in the region. the country has made great strides in recent years, both politically and economically. the kenyan elections have shown that the vast majority of kenyans prefer democracy to dictatorship. they've shown they have more faith in the people's representatives than in the military. nevertheless, these appalling outbreaks of violence have led to a humanitarian crisis, with hundreds of deaths and more than 250,000 people displaced. this will not be without consequences for the economic position. what do you want me to do? it is important that the european union gives its full support to the team of so-called eminent african personalities headed by kofi annan, appointed by the african union. if there is one lesson from the past, it is that we must not think that we as europe are capable of solving africa's problems. african problems require african solutions and i welcome the support of the european commission in this regard. mr president, our group fully supports the resolution. i do have one more thing to add, which our group regrets very much. the european commission, one day after the elections, transferred over 40 million euros in budget support to the government. so at a time when the result was being decided and at a time - as the commissioner has already said - when there were already plenty of irregularities. the commission has not even waited for the findings of our own observation team, which were published just three days later. this political decision cannot be justified on the technical grounds that payment had already been postponed until after the elections and it is simply the third instalment in a series of payments. the delay was possible and should have been. it is an extremely unfortunate decision, all the more so since the member states themselves had already suspended their aid. this can't happen again.
mr president, today, police violence has again been used against demonstrators. another death has occurred in kenya. can this tension end without a new presidential election? i doubt that. in any case, an independent investigation into these electoral frauds is needed and all parties must respect the outcome of that investigation, even if it means new elections. kenya is at huge risk. it is in the interests of all kenyans, of the region and of the eu itself, that peace should return there. refusing to talk now is irresponsible. and one thing is clear: further budgetary support for such an undemocratic government is unthinkable. kofi annan is sick now, and rarely has a flu come at a worse time. but the eu must now fully support its mission and provide technical and financial assistance where needed. of course, the african leaders must first of all act as mediators, but if the situation threatens to escalate further before annan's arrival, then the eu itself will have to be ready to travel quickly to nairobi with a high-level delegation together with the african union. we cannot let kenya become somalia. it's not too late.
mr president, we all agree that what has clearly gone wrong in kenya is the procedure for the presidential elections. what has gone relatively well, however, are the parliamentary elections, the elections for the members of parliament. i agree with commissioner michel, who says that it is encouraging what happened yesterday in parliament, that the president was elected, that the parties and the opposition had enough strength to push through the election of the new president. i also believe that this parliament must do everything possible to support and, if possible, strengthen parliamentary democracy in kenya. the budgetary support given exactly one day after the elections has been criticised by many in this house. i would like to ask the commissioner the following question - although it is probably not possible formally. would he make any decision on budgetary support dependent on the opinion of the european parliament on the matter? in my view, it is not for a group of officials in the european development committee to take such a decision, but the commissioner should first ask the european parliament for its opinion. i would like a clear answer to that.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for his work. he had already written a really good piece of work and he was also very constructive in his handling of the amendments from the colleague; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to make it clear to the council that supporting the report by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra is not the same as supporting the council's decision, because there are still some differences between the two, particularly as regards data protection. the report makes it impossible to use databases without restriction, since data must be used only for specific purposes, be subject to judicial control by the member states and be processed only on a case-by-case basis. my question is whether the council can respond to these amendments. commissioner frattini has just set the example by being very specific about the report. that is why i am voting against the report. but i hope that the council can now make clear what it thinks of the additions made by the european parliament. not everyone in my group is in favour of a strong police force, but any improvement in the legal and democratic controls can count on our warm support. that is why we are in favour of transforming europol into an agency, with more budgetary control. we also want more legal control; i therefore find the liberal proposal extremely sensible and will support it. mr alvaro has just said, with a certain caution, that we can only review certain matters after six months. as far as i'm concerned, we're not just going to look at the proposal, we're going to change it. my question to the council is this: are you going to take over? and if so, what do you think will change in the way the court of justice controls europol?
- a writer. - mr president, we have also put questions to the commission and i also expect the commissioner to answer them. the main subject of discussion tonight is the commitment of the european union, of the european commission, to tackling the problems of the roma, a large group of whom have been counted among the eu citizens for a number of years and again since last year. they are citizens living in conditions which are, in most cases, unacceptable. we are glad that the european commission will respond to this today. we are also pleased that the european council at the brussels summit has paid attention to the situation of the roma, has asked the commission to come up with more concrete proposals for what the european union itself can do to complement the policies of the member states with large roma populations, what we can do in terms of coordination, the exchange of best practices, and how we can better use the resources available to the european union in those countries through the funds to do something about the situation of the roma. i say this in particular because when a number of countries joined - last year, but also in 2004 - we said: "okay, come on in, one of the things we have to do together is to address the problems of the roma". i myself was rapporteur for slovakia and i remember that the slovak government made all kinds of commitments, but i have some doubts about the effectiveness of the implementation of those commitments. that is and remains an important point. we also say that you cannot regard the roma as a classical national minority, like the hungarians in slovakia or the russians in the baltic states; it is a typical european minority for which a special european policy could also be developed, together with the member states concerned, with its own responsibility for the european union, as also recognized by the statements of the european council in brussels. we ask the commission in particular to ensure greater coordination within the commission itself. how can we work better together? how can we also make someone in the college centrally responsible for roma policy? perhaps we should also consider whether the roma can be recognised as a kind of european minority in order to circumvent the subsidiarity principle which currently applies to the minority policies of the member states. finally, i think that everyone's intentions are good, but that better coordination is needed and more action is also needed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the current situation of the roma forces me to begin with a criticism, which is that the european commission has been slow and lazy in dealing with roma issues in europe. just look at the council of europe and the osce, which for the past two decades have had offices fully dedicated to roma issues. the council of europe has produced many specific recommendations on the roma, and the osce has developed its action plan on improving the situation of the roma in the osce area. i wonder how much attention the commission and eu member states has devoted to those documents, and whether they took seriously the joint ep resolution on the roma, or the decade of roma inclusion action plans. however, simply criticising is not my political style, and ms ferrero-waldner has given me some cause for optimism. i would therefore ask the commissioner to please share the following message with president barroso and the college when you meet. first, a european roma strategy should be created as soon as possible and should primarily focus on improving the living conditions of the roma in europe, creating jobs for the almost 90% of roma who are jobless, combating anti-gypsyism, supporting the education of roma, bringing health into roma houses and promoting roma political inclusion. second, to facilitate such a strategy, the european commission needs a permanent roma unit, hiring roma staff to serve that body. i sincerely hope that the commission will hire roma staff on the basis of their skills, rather than their skin, as some member states have done in the past. third, a special european fund for roma projects should be a priority for the european commission. the european parliament should, of course, also make a contribution towards the joint european ‘union of works’ to improve the situation of the roma. i would like at this juncture to raise again the proposal to have a permanent ep rapporteur on roma issues, who could give a good overview and make recommendations to this house, other eu institutions and the member states. furthermore, i would like to hear the voice of the roma more loudly in this house. their interests should be represented by their meps. finally, i would underline that the european roma strategy should express common political values when it comes to the future enlargement process and the fight against ultra-nationalism and the extreme right in europe.
the importance of the south caucasus as an energy corridor for the european union cannot be underestimated. what else will happen to our goal of energy diversification? we are therefore fully in line with the line drawn by the rapporteur, mrs polfer, in her report. analyst vladimir socor has succinctly formulated this corridor function of the south caucasus: the azerbaijan-georgia-turkey railway will break russia's monopoly on rail traffic to kazakhstan and other central asian states. just as pipelines through the southern caucasus will break russia's monopoly on the transport of oil and gas from central asia. add to this the necessary energy supplies to azerbaijan to carry out the nabucco project. if the european union is to make the most of the southern caucasus as an energy corridor, internal political stability in georgia, armenia and azerbaijan is essential. unfortunately, there is no consensus in the societies of these countries. the european union has a direct task here. the desired political stability is equally true at regional level. the eu can and should call on turkey, the applicant country, to do so, because a military escalation of the nagorno-karabakh conflict is anything but unthinkable in the long term, given the quadrupling of azerbaijan's military capabilities and the increasing external aid that baku is currently receiving in this regard.
i think it is right, mr president, that we should be talking together tonight about the situation in the south caucasus and our ambitions as the european union and this parliament with regard to the black sea region. because we are talking about regions where there are regional problems, where regional solutions must be sought for the countries that are part of that region. and then we talk about security, energy, trade, transport, in fact, if you take it all together, about the stability and development of the regions bordering the european union, regions where we have great interests. these are concerns which i believe should also be reflected in a more active policy of the european union and the european commission. we are grateful for the initiatives that the commissioner has developed under the broad name of black sea synergy. other colleagues have already said: it is important to emphasize that russia and turkey also have a role to play in this type of cooperation. they already have that role and the european union must be particularly careful to ensure that they continue to play it. we have a good relationship with turkey, we are negotiating membership with turkey, but turkey also has a wider role in the region. it also has a traditional role. russia is important in the region, but relations with russia are a bit more complicated. i think that if the european union is to be seen as a partner in this cooperation and not as a driver, as a driver, then there will be a feeling from moscow that this is a shared responsibility for a region where we can work together as partners without the eu playing the leading role. synergy, well, that is a good summary of a bundling of policy activities of the european union, of the commission. mr swoboda and i have suggested that we should give it a little more structure, perhaps a parliamentary dimension, ministerial consultation at the black sea level. a little more structure would be nice. we have indeed spoken of an eu-black sea community, but after the initiatives of mr sarkozy we have perhaps become a little more modest in using that kind of terminology. it is important to emphasize that what we are proposing and what you want is not an alternative to the bilateral relations which the european union has with all those countries, but it can encourage the eastern neighbours to increase regional cooperation. i think that is also of paramount importance for the european union.
i was not present in rio, mr president, but i was at the first conference in athens and i saw the importance of this formula of the forum: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. there are still some very difficult issues to be resolved in this dialogue. i think, for example, of the domain names, the icon and the influence of the americans on it. the idea behind this is that we think it is extremely important that the world wide web also has a truly global, unified approach. it is therefore important to see that the new approach to the icon also reflects the signals from this debate and that the ideas of partners are taken on board. mr president, i would like to highlight one aspect in particular today. i strongly support a europess forum, a european version of the internet governance forum in the coming years, preferably before the 2009 elections. what we have to do is to ensure that we do bring our national parliaments on board in the debates. you can see from initiatives in a number of countries, like the uk, that these issues are alive; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i appeal to the european commission. i read in the papers that they do not have enough instruments and money to support one or the other, to choose another approach; there's enough money. look in i2010, look in the programs for research, etc. i would like to take a very broad approach to make europe's face on this issue even clearer before the 2009 elections.
mr president, since we formulated this resolution, some important changes have taken place in kenya. yesterday, the newly-elected parliament – and according to all observers the elections to the parliament were pretty honest – elected a new speaker. the speaker is from the opposition. we view that as an encouraging sign, and i would therefore like to propose an oral amendment, in the form of a new paragraph reading as follows: ‘welcomes the fact that the newly-elected parliament showed its independence by the election of mr kenneth marende as its speaker, and underlines the decisive role to be played by that parliament in restoring civil liberties in kenya’.
the problem of human rights in china is constantly reappearing in these urgent debates. there is always a reason for that. china's economic growth and growing international standing have still not led to a substantially different approach to civil liberties, administrative abuse of power, space for opposition and judicial independence. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. china is not the only country that pronounces and executes death sentences, but it is a champion in this regard. the only progress we are seeing now is that more attention is being paid to the certainty of the perpetrator's guilt before execution, so that fewer people are killed who are later found to be innocent. the international attention to the three great dramas in china has now largely disappeared. the 1989 massacre in tiananmen square, the persecution of the falun gong and the changing demographics of tibet and east turkestan are attracting less and less attention. all the attention is now on economic growth, export opportunities to china, cheap import opportunities from china, china's growing role in africa and the upcoming olympic games in china. under these circumstances, the pressure to improve the human rights situation in china is diminishing. the olympics have become an argument for demolishing neighborhoods and driving out the residents. the chinese ambassadors say that their people's national honour is being tarnished by criticism from abroad. the forthcoming olympics could have been a moment of improvement. as it stands, they are good for tourism and for the execution of major public works, but not good for the improvement of human rights. in the netherlands, a debate has now arisen on the possibility of boycotting these olympic games. a resolution on one arrested human rights activist hu jia is necessary, but not enough. in relations between europe and china, it is not economic self-interest that should be paramount, but our concern for human rights in china.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the democratic republic of the congo, a vast area with a multitude of peoples, did not gradually gain independence during the belgian colonization before 1960 by means of self-government built up over many years. decolonization was not prepared, but became inevitable after britain and france granted independence to their smaller neighbouring colonies in the late 1950s, partly as a result of the wars of liberation in morocco, tunisia, algeria and kenya. since then, the congo has been a constant battleground. the early years were dominated by the struggle between kasavubu from the west, lumumba from the northeast and chombe from the southeast. they each represented different ideologies and interests, but they were above all loved by a limited part of the congolese population. the harsh military dictatorship of the profiteer mobutu has united the country for years in a seeming calm, but the differences have never been bridged. the recent elections have also failed to produce unity or good cooperation. the country remains a battleground with flexible borders, where, as in the 1960s, the issue is the demarcation of ethnic areas and the control of mining areas. foreign companies benefit from this. it now seems to be a question of which people in this multitude of peoples dominates the others. in this form, the future of the congo is without prospects. the horrors to which the resolution refers, including the general lawlessness and the frequent rape of women, are all connected with that chaos. the 2006 law against sexual violence will not solve that problem as long as the struggle continues and many people are homeless. the resolution rightly refers to the role of government representatives, peacekeepers and aid organizations. their people must do everything they can to prevent such atrocities without getting involved themselves. recognition of rape, forced pregnancy, sexual exploitation and other forms of sexual violence as war crimes by the european union and the united nations is a first requirement, but removing the breeding ground for this violence will have to be done on the ground.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. the young soldiers nasser and najib, who overthrew the dysfunctional regime of king farouk more than half a century ago, brought hope of change and progress. nasser gave his people pride and inspiration for a future that would end a backward and humiliated country. his successor sadat offered hope of lasting peace with neighboring israel, after a series of terrible wars. the current president mubarak offers no hope. it has become the symbol of the stagnation. his only merit is the fact that he has organized stability with a heavy hand, which allows him to be seen in the outside world as an ally against terrorism and islamic fundamentalism. but it has no progress and no democratization to offer. opposition is allowed selectively, but it does not have the normal scope of play that is common in a parliamentary democracy. in this way he is breeding a fertile ground for internal strife, both among fundamentalists and among democrats. there is also a growing intolerance of religious minorities, including the christian heads who have long been strong in egypt. on this basis, where problems are not solved but are covered up by force, no lasting stability is created. that is why this critical resolution is justified. the opposition of non-governmental organizations, the intimidation of opponents, the discrimination against minorities, arrests and torture and all the other shortcomings we have noted make us fear the worst for what will follow mubarak's rule. egypt seems to have largely returned to the backwardness of king farouk's time, 60 years ago. european relations with egypt should help to put an end to this situation as far as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. i would like to thank the european commission for the energy package which has just been presented. building on the decisions taken last year to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we now have the legislative package. the proposals before us are characterized by a lack of agreement between the various interests, including those of the european commission. in the last few days we have heard criticism of the proposals, mainly from the heavy industry. the amendment of the emissions trading directive will indeed hurt several sectors. but i think we need to take action now, even if it hurts sometimes. i am also looking forward to the directive on carbon capture and storage. it would also be great if there were more renewable energy sources; 20% until 2020, as proposed. we must be critical of the 10% biofuel target. the sustainability criteria should be clearly set out in this directive. for most of the proposals the environment committee in this house will be designated as the committee responsible. that creates obligations of efficiency, but we have courage for the final outcome. we're going to hear a lot of critical voices coming from the lobby in the coming months. there will be broad support. we must keep our backs straight to ensure, within the framework of accountability and justice, legislation that benefits everyone and everything, but above all the environment.
president, today we are seeing the impact of europe's climate ambitions. i think the proposals are very well put together, but unfortunately the target is too low. in bali, it was determined that 25-40% less is needed by 2020 to save the climate. and then the european union's commitment of 20% is a little on the thin side. that is a wrong signal to the rest of the world, and furthermore, bulgaria and romania, among others, are allowed to increase their emissions considerably. that's not a good idea, as far as i'm concerned. so there's little reason for china and india to start reducing their emissions. it would be better if the richer countries in the european union helped countries like bulgaria and romania to reduce their emissions. that's a better way to be credible in the world. unfortunately, the renewal of the emissions trading system has been watered down by pressure from the industrial lobby. it is a pity that the commission has fallen on deaf ears and reduced the share of auctioning rights for energy-intensive industries. it is true that some companies operate internationally, but it is much better to counter that with a fair system and border taxes.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). good news came last month, mid-december, from the iranian opposition in tehran. they clearly and clearly opposed the denial of the holocaust by president ahmadinejad, saying that the holocaust is a historical event which we do not question. - of which i have a record. the bad news is the recent open threat by foreign minister mottaki to the united nations security council. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is not disrupted. high representative, i'd like to hear your position on this open threat. and what further suggestions do you have for strengthening the iaea by setting up an independent committee of technical experts on the iranian nuclear dossier? after all, such a committee has its precedents in unscom and unmovic. the report of this committee should be the guideline for consideration by the security council.
president. - the debate on iran is about more than nuclear energy, the threat of war and human rights violations. in his introduction mr solana has already described why iran, despite some features of democracy and a high level of education, is not a pleasant country to live in for very many people. many people who are persecuted by the iranian government or who cannot live in freedom under the current regime have sought refuge in europe. the european union and its member states should not impede these people. the peaceful opposition in exile must have full freedom here. it is therefore important that the european court of justice has ruled that it is wrong to list such an organisation as a terrorist organisation. it is important that this parliament reminds the council that this is an incorrect and unacceptable position. it is precisely on this list that there can be no compromise with the iranian regime.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: it is not the first time that we have received the same answers from the council, which declares itself incompetent, and from the commission, which does so, but still - and i commend the commissioner for that - says at the end that things should be regulated differently in the european union. if something happens that affects the security of all europeans, which is actually covered by the security agreements, by the security strategy that javier solana has developed for us, then you should also be able to talk about it amongst yourselves. fortunately, our parliament has the opportunity to discuss this. this is a matter of concern to the citizens, and also to the member states of the european union. so in that sense we think we should really bring it up. i will not repeat all the objections we have raised in the past as a group to this plan from the americans. what we think is wrong is that there are bilateral negotiations with two nato member states which - coincidentally or not - are also members of the european union and that this has repercussions for relations with russia. the european union is also concerned about the consequences for relations with russia. that the system is further developed unilaterally within nato as well; it's not clear what exactly that system is for, whether it will work, whether it won't be too expensive. it is interesting to note the debate that is taking place in poland at the moment, where the new government has said that it may be willing to cooperate in that system, but that it is because the americans want it to be so and because it is about the security of america and not so much about the security of poland. because in fact the security of poland is threatened by that system rather than improved. that is why poland is also asking for additional support for the development of, for example, air defence for the polish armed forces, which has a kind of race effect. so it is interesting in itself that in poland the debate has been reopened on the usefulness and necessity of the system and that the new polish prime minister and at least the polish foreign minister have the courage to discuss this with the russians as well. we wholeheartedly support that. in the czech republic, it's different. we feel that the system and the czech contribution are being pushed through it against the will of the people. i believe that 70% of czechs are against the development of that system. that leads me to the conclusion that i am afraid there is a kind of game being played to push through decisions this year, to conclude treaties with poland and the czech republic, before another government - hopefully in the united states - takes over. we know that the democrats are quite skeptical of the development of the air missile system. we hope that the council will at least have a discussion on this. we'll ask it again not to play dumb. if this continues, it will simply have repercussions on the already difficult relationship with russia. it's creating fear among the population. there is a new race here and there are a number of other matters on which we think the european parliament should at least have a say. we have done so in the past and we will continue to do so. i think it is our role to see whether this is necessary, whether it is creating a new arms race, whether it is really contributing to security, whether it is really contributing to the fight against the so-called rogue states. i'm still not convinced that the iranians will have the capability to launch missiles as soon as the americans claim. we have received conflicting information on this too. so i hope that in this debate, in this parliament, we can continue the debate and also follow what is happening in the czech republic and in poland. my group is still opposed.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). in the second half of the nineteenth century, european states decided that they themselves should have a monopoly on postal services because private industry was failing. there have always been private companies that tried to evade this measure. they offered cheaper services, but selectively, in the busiest parts of the postal delivery and with poorer working conditions and terms of employment. since the 1990s, a political majority has been seeking to create more and more space for such companies. the decision now proposed gives them almost complete freedom of action. my group expects this to lead to a deterioration in postal services for consumers, a deterioration for workers and additional costs for member states to maintain and restore their universal postal services. even now that the three largest groups have found a compromise on deadlines and accompanying measures, my group regards this as a step backwards. we therefore propose that, in addition to measures to improve the details, such as stricter guarantees for blind customers and for staff, this liberalization should be rejected. this is also in line with the recent rejection of the sale of state-owned companies by the voters in the german city of leipzig.
i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr markus ferber, for his work as rapporteur. on this difficult subject he succeeded in bringing parliament together at first reading, although he and i personally felt that we could have gone a step further. but that common position has ultimately been the guiding principle for the council, and that is why i can wholeheartedly agree with the common position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced of that, and the examples in a number of member states prove it. but what is now important is that the european commission actually adheres to this directive, that it does not remain a dead letter. if the directive is adopted, the objective of opening up markets must also be achieved. better services for consumers, and not, as germany does under the slogan of social protection, to exclude new entrants, but not only new entrants, but also new businesses, new services, new jobs. i am therefore pleased with the reply from the european commission which i received yesterday. i understand that the european commission is going to investigate the situation in germany. i would encourage you to do so, please do so quickly, because the water is rising to the lips of the new entrants on the german market and it would be a very bad thing if it did not end well; that would be exactly the wrong precedent. i predict that france and other countries will follow and we will end up with nothing. the european commission now has a huge task. i hope that you will use all the legal possibilities, but also the political pressure, to make this directive really apply to the european postal market.
the european union has gone to bali with a lot of ambition to achieve the best possible result. the eu has not been able to achieve its ambitions in all areas. but i'm positive, though. first of all, of course, the fact that all the participating countries have been able to sign the bali action plan and that negotiations can be started. in substance, it is regrettable that concrete emission standards have not been included in the final text of the action plan. however, progress has been made in other areas, such as the establishment of a work programme to tackle the serious problem of deforestation. just last week, alarming reports of deforestation in brazil were again coming to light. it is also good that western countries continue to support developing countries in the use of sustainable technology. finally, a problem that has not been solved is the greenhouse gas emissions from shipping. given the complex nature of this highly polluting sector, a global approach is necessary. the pressure will have to be put on the imo to launch an effective policy as soon as possible. commissioner, you can be sure that we will support your policy.
president, bali was just the beginning; it's a good first step towards an international climate agreement in 2009. bali was a close-run success thanks to european leadership, and my sincere congratulations to commissioner dimas and his team. in december, the world will gather in poznan. it is the next test of european leadership. europe must speak clearly with one voice, and with a strong voice for firm action. we have to be very clear to the rest of the world. europe wants to reduce greenhouse gases by 30% by 2020. that remains the aim of negotiations. the strong lobbying by some governments and captains of industry against the energy and climate package was also a wrong signal. european leadership also means that we will start implementing the emission reductions we ask of other countries in the 27 member states ourselves. that's what's important. in poznan we must also show that europe can and will go beyond 20% reduction. if we're going to take the bali consensus seriously, we have to assume at least 25%. we must show that this can be done without sacrificing jobs, and i have every confidence that a historic climate agreement can be signed in 2009. however, a good european climate policy is a necessary condition for this.
it is a great pleasure to speak here under the catch-the-eye procedure; the debate on mrs hall's report here makes it very clear that we must speed up. there are so many opportunities in energy efficiency. we express it in english as "low-hanging fruit"; if we take advantage of these opportunities, we can indeed contribute very quickly to the objectives we have set ourselves, which we reiterated in bali and reaffirmed in the commission's package of 23 january. mr piebalgs has played a very significant role in this. in the committee on regional policy we have seen - and mr buzek has already spoken about this - that in the period up to 2006 it was possible to give priority to energy and energy efficiency in the objectives of the structural funds. only 1.16% has been spent on it. in consultation with the committee on regional policy, mrs hübner announced last week that she would review the regulation and give greater priority to these matters in the 2007-2013 programmes. so, my conclusion on this is: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
mr president, what is this all about tonight? the point is that we want to strike a balance in very clear decisionmaking by the european parliament and between the three institutions. we have indicated in it that, in the area of territorial cooperation, there are new instruments to improve crossborder cooperation. national borders are still scars of the past. they sometimes run right through communities, right through new development areas; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of health care. we need new instruments and if we analyse the regulations that have been created, the degrees of freedom for the national member states are particularly high, and that is why it is so disappointing that so few member states - which have already provided for so many freedoms - are now applying them, given the need to speed up crossborder territorial cooperation. the appeal from parliament is therefore justified. we say now: the commission and especially the council, which are absent here tonight, take your responsibility to implement it quickly. i am glad that from below - the committee of the regions was just mentioned - there are good examples of how the process of integration can be accelerated without calling into question the legal systems of the national authorities. i am quite confident that it must continue in that direction. there's a case of cold-water phobia. it turns out to be too difficult. we have just had a discussion here in this room about energy efficiency in the built environment. it took five years for the national states to come up with the implementation. i say that we must take a joint initiative and, for example, in one year, increase the number of countries which have now implemented the directive from seven to 25 or 27. there's got to be. that is why i want an answer from the council, and the council is absent tonight, and i think that is an extraordinary omission.
president, president-in-office of the council, vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the questions to the council call for specific attention to be paid to developments in the frontex area. i have called attention to this several times in the past. the debate is therefore a good opportunity to reiterate our concern about frontex. i agree with mr catania on that point. several national parliaments have urged the governments of the member states to make people and equipment available for frontex activities. the member states do not seem to be keen to participate in operational activities. i am therefore pleased that the netherlands is finally prepared to use a frigate. i therefore have a question about what happens to refugees and migrants picked up by boat. can the president-in-office inform us how people intercepted at sea in small boats are dealt with? we regularly receive reports of intercepted boats with migrants; these people are usually brought ashore first and taken care of. is the member state in command of the naval vessel obliged to grant asylum or to take in intercepted boat refugees? the reaction of the dutch state secretary for justice this week showed that no final decision had yet been reached. i would like to have more clarity on this, because it should not be the case that only the member states which are making use of the material and the people are bearing the burden. if you cannot answer this question in this debate, mr president-in-office, will you please let us know in writing? then i have one more question for commissioner frattini. a commitment by ministers of justice to provide, for example, naval vessels was soon made. but the implementation is in the hands of the ministers of defence. it is sometimes quite a lot when those ministers of defence are informed of the commitments made by the ministers of justice. so it seems that there are major coordination problems. my question to commissioner frattini is this: what do you plan to do to avoid this kind of problem in the future? it has taken a long time for the promises made so long ago to begin to have any effect.
first of all, mr president, i would like to ask the commission and the council to be frank about the negotiations with the united states on a transatlantic data protection agreement. the commission now seems to be asking the council for a mandate at the end of the negotiating process. that's the wrong order. secondly, the pnr file is becoming a mess. the need for the entire program has not been demonstrated. there is uncertainty about the legal basis. there is still no regulation on the protection of personal data in the third pillar, and yet the home affairs ministers have apparently decided to set up a european pnr programme. the representative of the european parliament, mr deprez, was not invited to the meeting. i would like to understand how it is that the german minister for justice is at the same time declaring that a european pnr programme is contrary to the german constitution. i think that this dossier is far from being ready, and the european parliament would first like to hear what the need for this programme is.
mr president, i note with some surprise and regret that, first of all, the council has not replied to any question on pnr. i wonder if it would agree here to give us written replies to all the questions that have been put here. secondly, i note – again with regret – that for a year now we have been asking about information about the high-level contact group and the negotiations between the commission and the americans on data protection. again, we have not received a reply. they have been negotiating for a year, and i think it is high time that they tell us what they are negotiating about. i would like a written reply.
in writing. - i welcome this proposal from mrs hall. it is good that we are finally moving from abstract theories to concrete proposals for greater energy efficiency in the european union. i am pleased that this report maintains the objective of 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020. i do not agree with paragraph 16 of this report, which calls for the removal from the market of the least energy-efficient appliances. the industry must be motivated to produce better and more efficient devices. i therefore abstained from voting on the final vote.
in writing. - the vvd is against prohibition, but in favour of improvements. the vvd is therefore against a ban on terrace heaters, but in favour of innovative solutions that counteract inefficiency. the vvd euro group believes that it would be strange if, in the context of the fight against climate change, we did not also look at how to make terrace heaters more efficient. the group therefore agreed with the call in mrs hall's report to the european commission to phase out energy-inefficient appliances and replace them with more efficient ones. the report should be seen as an incentive for industry to develop more energy-efficient appliances - such as terrace heaters.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. the cda/epp delegation voted in favour of the final report because it contains a number of positive points. it is recognised that some species have a high survival rate after release and that exceptions to a discard ban are possible. this is important for young tongues, because this species has a fairly high survival rate. the report also highlights positive and negative incentives to reduce discarding. this is a more sensible approach than a total ban on discarding. the cda/epp delegation believes that a general ban on discarding is not realistic.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and to address a couple of points before i make an appeal to the council and the commission. first of all, the announcement of the recipients of financial support from the european union. the agricultural sector is leading the way in this area. yet we must handle such data with care and fairness. it cannot therefore be that some member states do comply with this requirement of disclosure and others do not. the commission's website provides links to 14 national websites on these beneficiaries of agricultural aid, leaving 13 sites missing. it would be good if the commission could explain why this is so. are these data not available electronically or have those member states not yet provided the data? the commission will also have to consider the protection of those recipients whose data are disclosed. for example, protection against radical animal activists, a problem facing several member states at the moment, including my own. finally, the data are not easily comparable and therefore require more guidance from the commission. i understand from the commissioner that he will take the initiative tomorrow in the area of the structural funds, and i welcome that. the second point is the annual activity reports of the institutions, which are an important improvement, but also point to the weak points. i now come to my call, which relates to the fact that 80% of the funds in europe are not managed centrally but through the member states or together with the member states. we can improve and strengthen transparency and control at european level for all time. but until the member states also take their responsibility through national declarations of assurance, a final check will remain difficult. it takes two to tango. we can have the most flashy passion dance on budgetary control at european level, but unless the member states join in, it will never be a prize-winning achievement. so i call on the member states to take their responsibility and on the commission to support this process in connection with these national declarations, as a good orchestra conductor, say, or as a dance teacher - you know that yourself, commissioner. but we'd like to count on your support on our side.
mr president, i appreciate the report as it is now on the table and i also appreciate the words of the commissioner and what he intends to do. in my own country, the netherlands, there is also a great deal of attention paid to radicalisation and its tragic consequences. we have ourselves been confronted in the netherlands with the terrible murder of a dutch tv producer, committed by young people who came from the radicalized circle. it's a small group, but what they do can have a big impact. it is very important that cooperation and every effort be made to identify and isolate groups and young people who could potentially commit terrorist acts. but as others have said here, prevention of radicalization is also vital. it is also about keeping the group that could potentially turn violent as small as possible. radicalisation does not always manifest itself in violence either. it is a bad phenomenon when young people feel totally isolated from society and no longer want to be involved. in our experience, it is also important that policy on tackling radicalisation is directed at local authorities. of course, it's important to look at what you can do in prisons and more generally in education to look at what you can do to prevent the abuse of the internet. but it is local authorities who can be most active in the communities themselves in tackling the causes of radicalisation and identifying young people who are also vulnerable to it. i think that the european union, and the commissioner in particular, can play an important role in bringing together the experience gained in various cities. we were on a working visit with our group last week to rotterdam, a city where a great deal is being done to tackle and prevent radicalisation and to reach out to the groups most vulnerable to it. it is also important to involve the broader aspect of dialogue with the muslim communities in our countries. it's partly about young people coming out of those communities, and if we isolate that large group, we'll never reach that small group at all. it is therefore important to start the dialogue on the basis that the vast majority of the muslim communities living in our society do not want to have anything to do with what is a perverse interpretation of their faith, and to invest heavily in the broad dialogue of my group, also this year, the year of cultural dialogue.
the new market access strategy of the european commission must help to remove barriers in third countries in a very concrete way. it is therefore rightly, as the commissioner says, a complement to the wto and to free trade agreements, an important complement. i am very pleased with the positive report of the european parliament, with thanks to our rapporteur, ignasi guardans cambó, who has also managed to make such clear points: better cooperation with european business and also more assistance for smes; the european commission's helpdesk, but also on the ground in third countries. i think the european institute in china for european smes is an excellent initiative of the european commission. it's about reciprocity. we are opening up our markets to third countries and then in those third countries we must also open up the market to our european companies, and especially in the emerging economies, china, india, brazil, russia. this is why we need to give priority to this market access strategy, with market access teams assisting european companies on the ground. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. european industry is the world's largest exporter and we must constantly oppose protectionist measures, including in those third countries. set your priorities for the areas that are important: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the following: i am glad that you are announcing that you will be making our annual report and it is therefore good to have an annual discussion on the priorities. you're showing ambition here, and that's worth a nice thing to us. i would like you to show the same ambition in the adaptation of the trade defence instruments as you have shown in this strategy.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his explanation and also for his honesty in explaining the dilemmas he faces when he talks to his colleagues and to the member states about the reform of the european union's trade defence mechanism. that's one. and i am glad that you are also honest about why you cannot come up with proposals at the moment, because it is just very difficult to find agreement within the european union on what is the best way forward. the commissioner also stresses the importance of finding a bridge between those countries which make their living mainly from trade and those which have to make their living mainly from production. i myself come from a trading country, the netherlands, but i understand very well the concerns of countries like france or germany, which have a large manufacturing base, about the development of world trade and protection. for them, too, there is a need to protect their own industry. it is therefore very important to find that bridge and it is also important that the commissioner should make a special effort to do so. i think the debate should be held. we must also have the courage to talk about the need to reform these trade defence instruments because we are dealing with rapid changes in the international economy. what would you be arguing about? i say discuss, because i don't have all the answers yet. there is a need to discuss transparency in the system, the need for greater flexibility, a better definition of what constitutes a european company, and social and environmental aspects in relation to determining the european community's interest. these are some of the points which we as a parliament must discuss and try to reach conclusions on which we can then exchange with the commissioner. i think it is too early, even from my own group, to come up with any concrete proposals as to how it should be. i am prepared to discuss the need for reform and then to consider how to identify some of the areas where we would like to work further. that also requires a great deal of discussion in my group, as it does in the council and the commission. let's try that. i agree with the commissioner. whether it is formulated within six months or within twelve months or within two years, let us at least start the debate. because we simply cannot ignore that there are some changes in the world, including in the global economy, to which our trade protection system must be adapted. that seems to me an important start to a discussion and i am glad that the commissioner has been so frank about the problems he himself is facing.
president, commissioner mandelson, thank you for the frankness with which you have told us why you have not succeeded. if i hear some colleagues saying that they are happy that you have not succeeded in revising the trade defence instruments, i think it is because they are afraid that you want to abolish them. but that's not what i heard you say. but is it not much more fair to say that perhaps you were too ambitious, that you wanted to go too far in the revision? i am referring in particular to the revision of the balance between the industrial countries and the interests of trade. the failure to do so will also mean that some of the necessary and widely supported changes in the area of accessibility for smes will not be implemented. the necessary changes in terms of transparency, speed and accessibility of documents, which are widely accepted, will unfortunately not be made in the next two years. could there not be a way to ensure that these changes are brought about and that we have a proper debate on the more far-reaching proposals?
i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr stubb, mr schaldemose and mr brie, for their constructive and rapid work, because that is the way legislation should be made, quickly and effectively. i would also like to thank the commission and the council presidency. we have put europe together for this kind of legislation and it is good to give a huge boost to the economy, especially smes. we very often hear complaints from small businesses that they are being hampered in their exports and their business operations because the borders are being closed while everyone is talking about the single market. this will lead to increased support for the european union. the small businesses are the backbone of our economy and the sector that creates the jobs we so badly need in the european union. it will also lead to greater support from the member states, because we will save a lot of administrative burdens, 150 billion a year. this year's budget is 120 billion. so let no member state say that the european union is too expensive, because they are even spending money on it. there are not a whole host of press people outside because this is a very good fact, but i think it should be said. we as liberals are naturally very pleased that the single market is being strengthened. more dynamism in the economy will lead to more prosperity in europe, which is good for both businesses and consumers, and therefore good for the european union. i shall not use all my time, because many colleagues have already praised the substance of the matter. so i shall not go into the technical details. it's a great piece. i hope we can adopt it unanimously and that it will come into force soon. the european commission, now also because of the reversal of the burden of proof, acts quite adequately when member states abuse the procedures to protect the markets. in such cases, rapid and accurate action is taken. so i think it'll work out well.
the credit crisis in the united states has in recent months demonstrated the bankruptcy of a purely capitalist system. we have known for a long time that a communist, or socialist system, as you prefer, does not work. in 1989 this became clear. but now that capitalism has also been shown to be unworkable, it is high time that knowledge was put to good use. the lisbon strategy is an attempt to ensure that europe can remain economically competitive with the rest of the world. this can only be done if everyone who can is actively involved and we take care of a good living environment. the promotion of employment and sustainable development are therefore rightly the main objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy. the solutions proposed by the gue group do not seem to me to be informed and realistic. if we were to take such measures, inflation would rise and investors would lose confidence in investing in europe. and inflation is ultimately theft. in previous debates on the spring break i have already advocated active government in the member states. i'm doing it again today. member states must initiate and implement reforms themselves. and now that there is no recession, it is high time to reform the welfare state adequately. europe can coordinate, but it cannot command.
it is good that we are making an active contribution to the debate at the spring summit today, mr president, and that we are putting the finishing touches on the subject. we have rightly spoken about this this morning and have addressed the member states in particular. i would point out that the implementation of our strategy is, after all, at the level of the firms, the municipalities, the regions, at the decentralized level. more than 66% of all public investment is made at local and regional level and as the epp coordinator for regional policy, i note that we have also given a significant boost with the european instruments since 2007 by rearranging the priorities within the structural funds and within regional policy. we have gone from physical infrastructure to knowledge infrastructure, to training and innovation. we are talking about the largest budget of the european union, more than 450 billion until 2013. fortunately, our resolution makes that clear. the committee of the regions also confirmed this in a report published at the same time. i would like to point out another point which was raised this morning in connection with the new treaty. it reaffirms the territorial dimension as a third objective, alongside social and economic cohesion. that means clustering, bringing companies together in top regions, is fine. at the same time, however, we must ensure that knowledge is not only applied excellently in a limited part of europe, but that it is also transferred to other regions within the member states, which must not be left behind. i therefore see the regional agenda with the lisbon strategy as an important response to investing in knowledge and competitiveness, entrepreneurship and smes. there are many programmes under way which enable us to show the electorate, our citizens and businesses that this is not just a european agenda but also an agenda of decentralized partners.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others madam president, mr özdemir rightly emphasizes in his report that central asia is of major strategic importance to the union. it also states that agreements with third countries must be accompanied by a clear commitment to the human rights situation in the partner country. the dialogue should therefore be based on the facts. turkmenistan is one of the central asian countries mentioned by the rapporteur. freedom of religion in this country is being trampled underfoot. religion is under the complete control of the state. 'ruhnama' - the state religion and cult around former president niyazov - is still the benchmark. unregistered religious groups are thus in a very difficult position. these believers are falling between the cracks. government intimidation restricts their religious freedom and causes problems for them in the area of free movement of persons and ownership of property. the situation of the russian evangelists, kalataevsky and potolov, about whom i asked the commission questions last autumn, is just one example of this painful daily practice. i would therefore like to draw your attention once again to my amendments nos 12 and 13, which i have tabled. turkmenistan is a country of importance for the energy diversification of the european union, that is beyond doubt. but it also deserves attention when it comes to the position of the religious groups mentioned and other minorities. this is also true of the other central asian partners. i'm counting on your support.
madam president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cem özdemir. it is a pity that probably the majority of the population in central asia fell asleep long ago. the european union has neglected central asia for a long time. the strategy now developed is a welcome complement to this gap. as many colleagues have said, the union has great interests in the region. we are choosing a realistic strategy which links the various aspects of our relationship with central asia and developments there. as our eu representative, pierre morel, has said on numerous occasions, developing an energy dialogue is not possible at all without our help in building functioning states. and functioning states also include democratic development. the success of the strategy now developed is not guaranteed. this will depend to a large extent on its implementation. we are particularly looking forward to the practical implementation also on the part of the european commission. of course, the human rights situation must not be lost sight of. as regards uzbekistan, i maintain that we must continue to operate strictly and firmly against this country until we receive clear signals from the regime there that they are really prepared to make democratic progress. kazakhstan, an important point. i agree with everyone that it is a central country in the region. i do not agree with mr tannock that this country should be included in the emu, but we must look at how we can improve relations with kazakhstan. i was there myself and was impressed by the dynamics in the country, not only economically but also socially. i am glad that agreement has been reached on whether that country can take over the chairmanship of the osce. i am also glad that in that commitment, in that decision, a number of conditions were imposed on that country. we can look over the next few years to see whether these conditions are also met. i would like to make one final comment. we can do anything in central asia. that can only be done if we also look at the role of russia, but also china in the region. so in our policy towards russia and towards china we will also have to consider how our greater interest in that region can also be expressed. when i was there, particularly in kazakhstan, i learned that they not only consider china and russia to be important partners, but also that they are looking at further relations with the european union. we can respond very well to that with the strategy that has been developed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, the new treaty offers great opportunities for development cooperation. this is mainly because the commission's action in the field of development cooperation is complementary to the member states' own initiatives in this new treaty. this will finally give us the opportunity to improve coordination between the commission and the member states. that is essential. the oecd also requested this in its dac peer review, which was very critical. the fight against poverty is central, and that is good. a key phrase has been omitted from the nice treaty: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this means that the european development treaty could now be included in the budget of the european union. this is very necessary, because it will finally give the european parliament full democratic control over the other half of the european union's development work. that is necessary and good. but without constant control by the european parliament, the fight against poverty will not be able to be at the heart of the european union's foreign policy, and even less so if there is no separate european commissioner for development in the future.
the third objective, territorial cohesion, is also explicitly set out in this treaty, in addition to social and economic cohesion, for the whole of the union. on the one hand, clustering is taking place in top regions in europe, but at the same time we are also advocating opportunities for employment and for economic development throughout the union. this is an important basis for social and regional policy. it is important to develop this in this way and to enable the transfer of knowledge about entrepreneurship and the use of money and instruments - think of the structural funds. i would like to make a few comments on the report. we are also showing citizens throughout the union that we can offer new solutions in the new circumstances.
in writing. − the draft constitution voted down in 2005 in two member states was characterised by its satisfactory reception by big business, national governments and the majority in national parliaments, but its lack of support among voters. in the few countries where referendums have been held, it has been found that intense public debate and high turnout lead to many votes against. the people do not want europe to impose decisions which they themselves would never have wanted to take. they do find europe useful for the peaceful resolution of crossborder problems and for tackling large-scale problems that individual member states cannot solve alone, but not for a europe that increasingly takes the place of the state in which they live. that constitution was a compromise between good and bad things, without the possibility of amending the bad points in the field of economy and armaments. the new treaty still closely resembles that constitution. the rejection of referenda is an expression of fear for the electorate. the adoption today by a large majority of the amended constitution sends a clear message: "people, you stay out of this; this europe is only a matter for professional politicians".
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs frassoni on her report. we have now had a number of reports on implementation and there is clearly a red line in those reports. that means more attention, including from the european parliament, to implementation. we now have the implementation reporting tool. i myself will be presenting a report in july on the implementation of the eighth directive on the supervision of accountants. it is good that parliament is also seriously considering how legislation is transposed in the member states. i shall deal in particular with the problem of the supervisors. we are talking about the transposition by the authorities in the member states and we are talking about the courts applying the law. but in many member states we also have independent regulators who apply and develop legislation. experience has shown that there are major differences between member states and between supervisory authorities. companies that operate internationally in several member states are increasingly faced with different requirements from different supervisory authorities in different member states. this is extremely difficult and frustrates the functioning of the internal market. one more point. we must also take a closer look at the legislative instruments we use in europe. we have so far worked mainly with directives when it comes to harmonization. commissioner verheugen has already said on certain occasions that it might be wise to make greater use of the regulation instrument in future for internal market legislation, in order to avoid all sorts of problems such as cherry-picking and gold-plating in the transposition of directives. i know that national parliaments, and the dutch parliament in particular, are slowly but surely becoming aware that implementing the gold-plating and cherry-picking approaches can be harmful to the functioning of the internal market and to the dutch economy as well. so the step towards regulation, where possible, is not so great any more.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in kosovo. the main conclusion was that we should accept reality, but that there is no reason to celebrate because we are now facing a very complicated situation, also in view of the reactions from serbia. but after what happened under milosevic and after years of negotiations to find a solution, what happened was inevitable. we want to focus on the role of the european union. the recognition of kosovo is a matter for the member states, as mr rupel and mr rehn have also stressed. but you must act. we share responsibility for stability in the region and also for stability in kosovo, and that is why our group expresses our political support for the esdp mission, for which the union has now given the go-ahead. we also demand, of course, that the kosovo authorities implement ahtisaari's proposals, that they really invest in a multi-ethnic state and that there are sufficient guarantees for the serbs living in kosovo. finally, on serbia itself. of course, everyone is very concerned about the situation there. we have just had the opportunity to hear the foreign minister of serbia in the foreign affairs committee say: the european union is not only a strong reaction to what is happening, it is an attack on europe, but also, and above all, an attack on the countries which have now recognised kosovo. i have one more question: what can we do to prevent serbia from becoming isolated and isolating itself in this situation? i am somber about his answer because everything he said was focused on the kosovo issue. i think we must continue to do our best to offer the people of serbia a european perspective, with a concrete offer from our side, for example, on visa facilitation and further visa liberalisation. we must also focus on the younger generation, which has recently demonstrated for closer ties with the european union, for a european future. i commend the attitude of the serbian government for its repeated commitment to non-violence. i also assume that they will not impose economic sanctions on kosovo and what we can do, also in the light of our responsibility as a european parliament, is to continue to invest in a european perspective for the whole region and to apply that to serbia as well.
i am glad that i was present in pristina last sunday when independence was indeed declared in a dignified manner. what happened there last sunday was the inevitable consequence of what happened in 1998/99, when more than 10,000 kosovars were killed and hundreds of thousands were driven into exile. was the return of pristina to belgrade's rule an option? no, it was fading after nine years of un rule, becoming less and less legitimate, becoming less and less effective. - what's the option? would a negotiated compromise between pristina and belgrade have been better? - i know. would it have been better to have had the security council's approval? - i know. has it been tried? - i know. was there any chance of success? no, mainly because of russian obstruction. i really hope that after the euphoria of the past few days, the kosovars will soon take responsibility, because they are in charge. the un is gone, the eu mission is in, and it is up to the kosovars to prove that good relations with minorities are not just on paper and that they are capable of pulling the economy out of the shallows. yes, the eu is now divided over recognition. it'll be a few more months, and then it's over. what the eu member states agree on is that kosovo's future lies in the eu. but the pace of kosovo's eu accession will also depend on serbia's attitude. we have just seen in the foreign affairs committee how angry serbia is, how angry the foreign minister is, how aggressive he has been. it's gonna take a while. and i, frankly, have some sympathy for that as long as it's nonviolent. when the anger has subsided, i truly hope that reason will prevail. yes, the separation of kosovo was inevitable. yes, serbia's future is equally inevitably in the european union. to do that, you have to jump over your own shadow once in a while. i wish the kosovars and the serbs a lot of strength in that.
in the netherlands, the european union's special envoy to kosovo and the proposed high representative of the international community, my compatriot pieter feith, gave an inspiring interview to the dutch press about the difficult task ahead for merelveld in kosovo. however, one passage in this interview puzzled me. to the simple question of which of the external actors is in charge in kosovo, the french ex-general de kermabon, who will head the european police and legal mission, or himself, feith replies: "when it comes to politics, i advise the french commander". the council is in turn the superior of mr feith. i would therefore ask the council, mr rupel: how exactly is decision-making in kosovo? what are the international relations of authority? very important for the future. and to conclude, a heartbreaking quote from a kosovo police officer: "on the criminal level, serbs and albanians do know how to find each other. the serbian and albanian mafia gangs have been working together for years". i sincerely hope that, thanks to the european mission in kosovo, this immoral albanian-serbian cooperation will give way to a dignified interethnic meeting, because only this will open up for kosovo the european perspective that we so dearly wish for it.
in writing. my group, and also the national parliamentary group of my party, have recently decided to reject the current path towards independence for kosovo. i understand this because at this stage the eu is behaving like a great power that wants to unilaterally impose its will on serbia, a state that has been humiliated many times before, and treats kosovo as its protectorate. this does not mean that i take back what i have said in the past years on this subject. the 1974 yugoslav constitution, which granted kosovo almost as much autonomy as the six constituent republics of the time, might have allowed for the peaceful coexistence of serbs and albanians within a single state. the unilateral abolition of that autonomy in the 1980s made the serbian state useless and even harmful to most of the inhabitants of kosovo. since september 1991, kosovo has been acting as an independent state, with its own president, parliament and education system. if that state, together with the other successor states of yugoslavia, had been recognised by the outside world in time, there would have been no violent kla, the inhabitants of kosovo would not have been condemned to accumulate criminal sources of income and there would have been no reason for the 1999 war.
i have read with interest the reports by mr kallenbach and mr guellec. the convergence of countries in europe remains an interesting theme. internal policy integration and cooperation within and between eu member states and regions is taking shape. the fact that such a strategy is working is clearly stated in the cohesion report. convergence between member states has increased. at the same time, however, it is also reported that convergence between regions within and between member states is declining, particularly between urban and non-urban regions. in my view, the national, regional and local authorities have a key role to play in such situations. i do not understand why the option of member states making more of their own contribution to regional development is rejected in advance. it is too early to say whether the present policy should be continued for many years to come. it is clear that it can meet certain challenges. but let us also see if it can solve the divergence mentioned, i.e. convergence not only at member state level but also at regional level, between and within member states. if not, a different approach with a greater role for member states is desirable. no one knows the national and regional situation better than the individual member states. they can propose solutions that make cohesion policy objectives achievable also at sub-national level.
madam president, madam hübner, the unique and special nature of the fourth cohesion report is that it not only gives a good evaluation of the policies pursued but also looks ahead and tackles new challenges for europe. it is about globalisation and its effects, about climate change, about energy issues and the demographic challenges. it is just as well that we are doing this now, also in preparation for the spring summit in march this year. mr guellec has done that in a very good way. he said that the essence of cohesion policy was not changing - it was also emphatically reaffirmed in the treaty - but that the content of regional action and programmes was changing. this week we also looked at the lisbon strategy and what strikes me is that we are going strong and making a specific contribution to it by committing, by way of appropriation, more than 60-65% of the cohesion money. this shows how much cohesion policy is at the heart of this challenge and the new circumstances. it is also important, as the kallenbach report has pointed out, that we make territorial cohesion a core task of the european union. globalisation is concentrated in a number of top regions, metropolitan areas, and europe's response is to provide opportunities in the transfer of knowledge and the creation of conditions for entrepreneurship for all regions, including rural areas. that's the new schedule. the epp also opposes a renationalisation response to the 2013 debate. the point is that we must establish a new link between r & d, innovation policy, the internal market and the union's instruments and funds, in order to link the knowledge economy - because that is what is at stake in the long term - to jobs and prosperity in our regions. i also welcome the transparency initiative taken by mrs hübner. the citizens must know how close we are to them with this policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these horrors are partly linked to conflicts in the neighbouring states of rwanda, burundi and uganda. internationally recognised state borders are of little importance to groups of people who, due to displacement or lack of livelihood, are constantly looking for a new place to live. in this area everything is in motion and the point is that this movement should cause as little violence and other atrocities as possible. warlords who gain prestige, power, and wealth by perpetuating conflict add to existing problems and make them more difficult to solve. very recently, on 17 january, we discussed the situation in the congo and adopted a resolution expressing the wish that all the atrocities should cease. i fear that we may adopt many more resolutions on this subject without coming any closer to a solution. anyone who thought that last year's elections would solve the problems in the congo was deceived. the incumbent president, kabila, has won but he represents different views from the movement from which he emerged and the results of both the presidential and parliamentary elections were disputed for the opposition. the question is whether such a large country with poor transport links and a very wide variety of peoples is capable of functioning in a way that is supported by all the different groups of the population and all the different political forces. now that this seems to be unsuccessful, congo is becoming a place where life-threatening diseases are rampant, where the exploitation of nature and landscape is rampant, and where people are left with no rights at all. the question is whether the ceasefire of 23 january for north and south kivu, which is based on the disarmament of the warring groups and the return of refugees to their homes, is feasible and whether the action of the united nations on the ground can contribute to this. this is not achieved by taking sides in conflicts but possibly by persuading the warring parties to refrain from sexual violence and to allow doctors, for example.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others it is the primary duty of every state to ensure the safety of its citizens, and this is in full accordance with international law. that explains and legitimizes israel's response to the increasing rocket fire from the gaza strip. this palestinian missile threat dates back to 2001. however, it has increased dramatically since the israeli withdrawal from gaza in 2005. since then, the number of palestinian rocket attacks on the jewish state has increased by as much as 500%. before 2006, there were rarely more than 50 rocket attacks on israeli territory every month. by early 2008, that number had grown to 50 a day! more than 250,000 israeli civilians are thus exposed to palestinian rockets from the gaza strip on a daily basis. the accusation that israel is responding to this deadly threat with disproportionate force ignores once again the cruel tactics of hamas and other palestinian terrorist organizations to launch rocket attacks from populated areas. at the end of february the dutch press reported extensively on this subject under the telling headline - a statement by a palestinian from the gaza strip - "please do not fire rockets at israel here". and incidentally, israel follows strict legal standards for military procedures. an example to be followed, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the arab world. meanwhile, hamas, the most dominant power factor in gaza as a member of the so-called axis of destabilization in the region, can count on substantial support from iran, syria and hezbollah. an anonymous hamas commander emphasized this abundantly to the sunday times yesterday. if iran can smuggle its fajr missiles into gaza, hamas can even threaten tel aviv. do the european institutions share this israeli concern and, if so, what is the european strategy in the face of this axis of destabilization? that is what is important for the stabilization of the middle east, for any prospect of peace.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to begin by expressing my understanding of the frustration of the czech republic and other non-visa-waiver countries. however, it would be highly destructive if the czechs were to go it alone, and we should not fall for us ‘divide-and-rule’ tactics. i hope that the commission and the council have learned an important lesson: that a proper mandate and approval of the european parliament is not an obstacle for negotiations but, rather, strengthens the position of the european union. the us should act as a loyal and reliable ally and respect eu law. concerning pnr, i wonder why it should be included in the memorandum of understanding at all if it is already covered by the eu-us agreement. the ink on the eu-us pnr agreement is not even dry yet, and not all member states have ratified it, so what else is it that the americans want? has the commission been able to establish whether the implementing measures of the memorandum of understanding are in line with the eu-us agreement and, if not, can we then assume that the agreement has become invalid? because, if that is the case, then the agreement no longer exists and we should engage in new talks, and i then assume that there will be codecision for the european parliament. with hindsight, it is even more regrettable that the council and the commission have accepted the eu-us pnr agreement on such vague and open terms, because it leaves much room for the us to further widen the scope of the eu-us pnr agreement. finally, i think the eu will only have a proper position vis-à-vis the united states if we speak with one voice, because if we do not – if we are divided – then our rules are made in washington and not here or in brussels.
the americans' divide and rule strategy in 2008 is the starting point in transatlantic relations. however, first of all it must be clear that we are ultimately doing it to ourselves. this time, the czechs were the first to be approached and succumbed. last thursday the commission was unable to confirm or deny that there was a breach of european law and regulation. how weird is that? when will the member states realize that each of them is more or less a voice crying out in the desert? in political relations with the rest of the world, and therefore also with the united states, it is really crucial that member states speak with one voice. the transatlantic relationship is undeniably of great importance, but no eu member state - no matter how loyal - will ever become the 51st state of the united states. this has got to stop. europe is on the move. and quite frankly, i am very angry that the council is not represented in this house at the moment. this is an absolute lack of sense of urgency.
mr president, as often in these debates i find that we do not get an answer to our questions. i put a very precise question to the commissioner: whether he has been able to establish if the implementing measures regarding the pnr part of the memorandum of understanding are in line with the eu-us agreement, and, if not, does that mean that the agreement would be invalid? the commissioner said that some members opposed the agreement and others endorsed it. i would like to remind him that when we passed a resolution in this house last year in july, it was passed with near unanimity and it called the agreement substantially flawed.
i would have liked to have had mr frattini sitting here with his colleague neelie-kroes. i think the strict distinction between market rules and privacy rules is outdated. we know that approval of the google/doubleclick merger is coming and of course the european parliament does not want to interfere in the details of that merger, but we do want to know what guarantees there are for privacy. personal data has become big business. information on customers, users and their behaviour and preferences is essential for the competitive position of companies. the protection of personal data can therefore no longer be considered as separate from competition policy. the commission has adopted a very traditional approach to competition, which is no longer suited to the behavioural advertising of the 21st century. competition must include safeguards for the protection of privacy and consumer rights if mergers lead to mega-companies with a lot of information about users, such as google/doubleclick, but also a possible microsoft/yahoo, or yahoo/rupert murdoch, or reed elsevier/choicepoint, etc. personal data can be misused to keep out new entrants, and the point is that in a healthy competition, you can enforce privacy on the consumer, you can discipline a company, as in the case of facebook, for example. we have rules about media concentration, too. why then do we not include the protection of privacy in competition policy? ip addresses may be considered as personal data. and that has potentially far-reaching implications for the industry, but also for the user. the european, but above all global, standards for this sector are therefore urgently needed. the european union must take the lead and develop things together with america, in consultation with industry. so i propose that we put this on the agenda of the transatlantic economic council. finally, companies also have an interest in the public's confidence in good privacy protection. i just mentioned the case of facebook, where consumers have used their power to force facebook to pay more attention to privacy. i would therefore like to call for a different approach by the european commission, combining competition policy, consumer protection and the protection of personal data or privacy.
on behalf of the alde group there is no doubt that aviation is and remains a popular target for terrorists. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. however, when it comes to maintaining support for this, the effectiveness of the measures is really crucial. in that respect, this agreement, although not perfect, is an important step forward. i hope very much that we will make full use of the enhanced role of this parliament. a certain degree of realism about the supposed effectiveness of legislation and regulation is more desirable than ever. of course, channeling collective stress is an important endeavor. at the same time, the air passenger must be taken seriously. nobody wants to wait for a fake security detail. the terrorist is getting more creative. this is not solved by ingesting bottled water, shower gels or lens fluid. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. in that respect, i look forward to the commissioner's road map, as he has just announced.
the contribution of the transport sector to changing climatic conditions is well known. the report by mr albertini, in my view, outlines succinctly what practical political and technical measures are possible to reduce this contribution. as the market is becoming more and more fragmented, these measures will cause the necessary pain to those involved, both professional hauliers and individual citizens. contrary to what paragraph 2 suggests, i believe that not only professionals but also citizens recognise the need for and support strong action, provided that it has demonstrable positive effects for the future. the first major objective to be achieved is that of air quality standards by 2015. transport plays a major role in achieving these standards, especially in urban areas. available techniques and measures, both source and target, should therefore be applied and implemented without delay. i am grateful to mr albertini for his report and i hope that all concerned will contribute to the efforts required.
as the epp regional policy coordinator, i have high hopes for 2009 and why? because we've been implementing these new programs in all regions, in all states, since 2007. what does that tell us? firstly, there is a new cohesion, more money is being spent in regions and cities than before, on the lisbon strategy, on growth and jobs. it also shows that we are performing better in the field of innovation, while investment in research and innovation has also more than doubled. in ljubljana last week two commissioners, mrs hübner and mr potočnik, actually announced very good figures on this subject. so there is actually a quiet revolution in the spending of these funds, and we must make it known. there's a chance to communicate much better. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be a missed opportunity if the union did not choose this regional policy, this new cohesion policy, as its focal point in its communication to the citizens.
i am speaking as coordinator of the epp-ed group on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation. i would like to congratulate the commission on its continued focus on the general strategic objectives of prosperity, solidarity and security. i regret, however, that little attention is paid to development cooperation and the fight against poverty. this is also of great importance for a strong and prosperous europe. in 2007, we adopted a joint eu-africa strategy for the first time in history, a milestone. however, the implementation of the eight thematic partnerships has not yet taken off. we welcome concrete progress on this point. finally, i have one last thing to say. more and more, euro commissioners are interfering in national political campaigns. this started with the european commissioner for development cooperation. i am concerned about the leadership vacuum this creates in key european policy areas. my question to the commission is whether it is prepared to draw up rules so that after the elections the office of euro-commissioner can be exercised without interruption for national election campaigns.
i'm glad i'm getting the chance. it's actually quite fine to start with this growth diamond, which is small at the beginning, but has great potential, especially from the bottom up, if that is recognized in the future as a special predicate of quality. second point: i have worked hard with mr paasillina to build that bridge to industry, to give it the name of innovation, and in that respect i am very pleased with the name 'institute for innovation and technology'. what strikes me when i read the papers is that we're still having some trouble with it. sometimes you do read the name in commission documents, but not in parliament's documents, so it is important that from today onwards the proper, correct name for the institute is used. finally, the third point: the seat. i would like to join with the non-native speakers, non-french speakers who have spoken today, like mrs ek and mr chatzimarkakis, who said: we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament. it's not about the big institute. that's a political solution, too.
i'll skip the thank you. let me say that i welcome the proposal to increase the quota by 2%. i myself would have preferred 3% because the european commission itself admits that 2% is a small percentage in practice because not all countries are meeting their quota, but i will in any case support mrs jeggle's compromise for 2%. it is time, dear european commission, because in 2006 we were already being overtaken by new zealand on the world market. the demand was growing. so there was room to take advantage of opportunities and we could not take advantage of them because we were stuck in the armour of the quota system. that system had a role when we were overproducing. now that demand has increased, we need to build a different system so that we can exploit those market opportunities. in that context i also regret that the health check now seems to be looking at four times 1% enlargement. i think a real soft landing requires a greater than 1% widening. let us have the courage.
with this health check the commission has taken a good, albeit very modest, step towards an agricultural policy which is somewhat less unjust. i would call on my colleagues not to support mr goepel's report, because it weakens the commission's proposals on a number of very important points, and the main point for me is that there are finally cautious limits to the amount of subsidy that anyone can receive. it is difficult to explain to the european citizen why, for example, the prince of monaco or large multinationals like heineken and nestlé receive hundreds of thousands of euros in income support in the form of agricultural subsidies, just because they own some land. at the same time, real farmers often struggle to make ends meet. income support in agriculture is designed to give farmers a decent living and not to line the pockets of multinationals and large landowners.
i would like to congratulate mr goeppel on his work. i think there are two things that are important in this debate. firstly, the most important thing for me in the agricultural policy is the common market for 500 million consumers. has the commission, or the goepel report, disrupted this market? i don't think it was. and that's a good thing. secondly, i think that a government should be trustworthy. what was promised in the 2007 budget must be kept, and i think the commission is doing that. i have mixed feelings about modulation. i do not yet know the results of the rural policy. the court of auditors' reports are extremely critical, but i find it difficult to impose an additional tax on farmers, 60% of which does not come back to them. in the netherlands, it is used for the purchase of natural land. something about the non-trade concerns. how can i explain to the european farmers that they cannot produce certain products which other countries can produce and which we can import without restrictions? this leads to unfair competition.
i would like to draw attention to an aspect of our agricultural policy which is often overlooked. the interests of the developing countries. we must get rid of the protectionism and market-distorting measures built into the present system. the poorest countries have a right to fair access to our market and to an end to unfair competition on their market. i have tabled amendments to draw attention to this and i would ask my colleagues to support them. commissioner, you will agree with me that the focus of our policy must be on the consumer first and foremost. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we support farmers in producing sufficient safe food of the highest quality. and that is why we must ensure that we have a sustainable agriculture, where maximum investment is made in protecting and improving the rural environment and the environment, so that not only we but also our children can enjoy it. we must ensure that there is enough food for everyone. and one way to do that is by continually developing our knowledge and sharing our knowledge and our modern techniques with the rest of the world.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, let me first make two preliminary remarks. one is that i would have liked to discuss with mr almunia these global imbalances and monetary intervention etc., but we will do that with mr trichet in another configuration. but what i want to stress here is that if we had not had this ecb structure, this system of european banks that intervened in the present turmoil, we would be much worse off. i think that this balance exists in monetary policy – we have had this type of european-level execution of activity, but we do not have it in the supervisory aspects. this is necessary for ex ante prevention instead of only intervention measures. my second preliminary remark is about the absence of charlie mccreevy. i think it is unacceptable that he does not want to discuss this with us. maybe he is dealing with his personal future, but i would say for the 2009 commission that it would be worthwhile considering having a special commissioner for the financial markets who will concentrate only on this, because i think this is a really major subject for europe and for the european commission. then, on the issue of the supervision – the road map you have described – i do not think we disagree on the measures, but i would have expected – and i said this very clearly in the level three committee at the annual joint meeting held in november – that these measures should also have been the elements of a clear proposal for legislative measures from the commission. the commission has the right of initiative, they can put proposals on the table, and we would have been able to act swiftly and consistently if we had had a concrete proposal. because now, a lot of these measures are only voluntary: they are requests to committees which really do not have the powers, the mandates, the competences and the tools to do what we would like them to do, because they are nationally organised and do not have this european mandate. this could have been the subject of a european commission proposal in this regard. why is the commission so slow in acting? i think one of the reasons is that they want these level three committees to be merely advisory and not the central tool for european supervision. i think this is something we also have to acknowledge: that they play this important role and that we need to have, like the european central bank, a real, independent supervisory structure which can deal with these subjects. it should not be only the commission – as dg competition – dealing with it, because the commission is too weak in this respect. concerning the council, i would really hope that you see the sense of urgency and discuss further measures on the architecture of supervision.
i am very pleased with the attitude of the commission, of the commissioner, and the very balanced approach. i have one very important concern, however, and that is that we are still exporting the old technology, which is not efficient and also leads to emissions, to developing countries. i ask the commissioner whether we cannot pursue a complementary policy along the same lines in this respect. can we expect any short-term initiatives in this area?
president barroso spoke about inflation. inflation is a ghost that is haunting the member states once again. at 3.2%, inflation is well above the 2% target. and that is a worrying development, one that is being fuelled by new wage demands, as in the netherlands. in recent years, the debate in preparation for the spring summit has been centred on the reforms of the welfare state. there was every reason to. welfare states had become untenable. several member states have taken advantage of this and are now better off. but, mr president, the future looks less promising. inflation is too high. the prices of raw materials are rising. and recently, the central banks had to deal with the credit crisis in the financial markets by borrowing money in large quantities. the restoration of consumer confidence is therefore now necessary. mr trichet said last week that the european central bank would continue to focus on maintaining price stability in accordance with the provisions of the monetary policy treaty. and the european central bank must continue to do so in an independent manner, as the new french head of the international monetary fund claims. however, it is up to the member states to support this policy by ensuring that wage costs develop in a controlled manner. can the president-in-office indicate what additional measures the council will take to reverse the trend? are there any measures to be expected to curb the excessively rapid growth of wages? thank you, sir.
as the epp-ed group's regional policy coordinator, i welcome the position that regions and cities have been given in implementing the lisbon agenda. the implementation of national reform programmes is, after all, at the regional level, the level at which we mainly use our structural and cohesion funds, including the seventh framework programme. and we see, europe-wide, that some 60% of public money is already being spent at that regional level. the trend is - it is good to see it - that we are moving from investments in concrete and asphalt, so to speak, to investments in knowledge and infrastructure; the majority of the structural funds, some 70%, will be allocated to the lisbon agenda in the coming years. another example: last week in ljubljana we saw figures on the expenditure of these funds. the structural funds allocate 20 billion euro to research and infrastructure. mr potočnik, commissioner, spoke of a quiet revolution in the spending of money. put your money where your mouth is. do what you say you're gonna do, shift the spending. it's a quiet revolution that's already in full swing. it is high time that we at european level create a better legal framework for investment in research infrastructure. you can't do the same large-scale, expensive investments in all countries. i welcome the fact that the european commission will be presenting a legislative proposal this year to put this into practice and to bring forward a proposal to better align these with national responsibilities. finally, there is a white paper on territorial cohesion, not only to develop large-scale regions in that cluster, but also to shape territorial cohesion of more remote areas in europe, and i welcome that.
the european union has a duty to help the people of iraq, and the european union has a duty to help the people of iraq. the complicated situation in iraq calls for a clear and committed policy. however, the proposed eu policy for iraq raises some serious questions. these questions are also particularly relevant to my working visit to kurdistan. the rapporteur mentions kurdistan as a region where stability and security are to some extent guaranteed and where international development cooperation should be further developed. the european union's presence in the region is of course of great importance. and i want to emphasize that. however, there is strong internal and external criticism of the kurdish regional government on the enforcement of fundamental rights, particularly the position of the assyrian christian minority in kurdistan. "is there a future for this group in iraq?" is a serious question. in short, council and commission, how can you make a real contribution to lasting peace and stability in the kurdistan region and also to the building of the structure of the democratic state of law? in conclusion, madam president, one last point. the millions of displaced iraqis do indeed deserve our attention and support. the rapporteur recommends that the council should take in iraqi refugees in eu member states. the council and the commission, how feasible is this good suggestion? thank you.
i thank the commission and the council for this briefing. i think it's very useful. central africa is the world's largest humanitarian disaster and it is spreading. as mentioned, thousands of refugees have fled darfur to chad, but the continuing violence in chad has also led to people fleeing to cameroon, nigeria and the central african republic. sudanese military and security forces are providing extensive support to the well-armed chadian rebels in the darfur-chad border area, and in addition to the sudanese government, they are also receiving support from arab militias in darfur. and that's what's starting these huge refugee flows. mr president, we cannot afford to ignore this. we must do everything possible to break the deadlock in sudan and chad and to stabilise the conflict zone, both in terms of political dialogue and in terms of aid and protection for civilians and aid organizations. it is good that the european union has decided to establish a joint peace mission to chad, with the aim of protecting civilians and providing humanitarian aid. president, general henri bentegead, chairman of the eu military committee, has indicated that equipment is still a problem. can the council indicate with which countries negotiations are still under way on possible contributions? and then, millions of people have been living in that dangerous situation for years, with no substantial change in it. we can't afford not to be successful. my question to the commission and the council is whether there is anything more to be said about the state of play of the operationalisation of the mission.
the rapid deployment of neutral eufor troops and equipment in chad is necessary for the safety of refugees and residents and for stability in the region. if the eu is to make a real contribution to this, the member states, including the netherlands, must honour their commitments and ensure that eufor can be fully operational as soon as possible. the slow response of member states should not lead to unnecessary delays in the delivery of troops and equipment and the deployment of eufor. we also need the helicopters from russia, so that they can not be used in chechnya. but not only the humanitarian situation, but also the stability of the whole region is at risk. the border conflict between chad and sudan is aggravating the situation. the peace negotiations between the presidents of chad and sudan, through the senegalese president abdoelaye wade, may be a step in the right direction. the eu must support this, as the eu remained in the background in kenya, but kofi annan strongly supported it. as louis michel rightly pointed out, political dialogue between all the actors involved must be maintained. the eu must, however, do much more to press for the immediate release of disappeared opposition leaders and human rights activists. otherwise, this dialogue is impossible. and just like in kenya in january, business as usual, no. freedom and dialogue must be the conditions for the continuation of aid to chad.
on behalf of the ppe-de group it is good that we are talking today about the demographic change in europe in a different way, not as something that only costs money and only produces people who need care; because there is also a very important opportunity. and i like to talk about the silver economy myself. because if you look at this program, there are issues that have to do with quality of life. but what is the european dilemma? on the one hand, we have very good basic knowledge, but it takes too long to bring innovation to the market. internet functions, broadband was possible long ago. and now consider what is actually being provided to people who are less mobile via the internet. that's very disappointing. there's actually an opportunity in this silver economy. on the one hand, i welcome the fact that the seventh framework programme has already set aside half a billion for basic research and that there is now, indeed, another half billion coming from the european community, the member states and industry. this is a good match to roll out this knowledge, a bridge to the market. it is very important that we, and mrs gill said that, in europe, with this distorted fragmented market, turn it around and come up with better standards to increase applicability. in america or china, for example, they don't have that problem. we have very different funding systems. so both the technology and thinking with partners at the national level about rolling it out is necessary. that is why it is good to bind the national states and to involve three countries in each project. sometimes it's hard, but i think it's necessary to use knowledge quickly. there are also evaluation moments in the program, and i'm really very curious whether this technology that's out there, these ict applications are actually going to make it. i have confidence in it and i hope that users in particular will play a very important role in this programme; i thank the rapporteur for the wonderful way in which she has taken us on this tour and especially for the content of her report.
mr president, this is the first time i have spoken in this house. i hope that i can now and in the future defend the interests of the dutch citizens of europe in this place. a great deal of negotiation has gone into the preparation of this thorough report by mr schmidt. i am glad that the rapporteur and the other groups have finally reached this compromise. the commission proposal aims to increase excise duties in stages and thus reduce the differences between member states. the environmental argument plays a part, but i think that the increase in fuel prices is already a sufficient driving factor in this. in addition, the commission uses distortion of competition as an argument to increase the minimum excise duty on diesel for professional use. i am surprised that tank tourism is used as an argument to increase the minimum tax on diesel for professional use, because this argument is greatly exaggerated. tank tourism in road transport is a marginal phenomenon with little impact on the competitive position of each other and the functioning of the internal market. the commission proposes a substantial increase in the minimum excise duty to eur 380 per thousand litres. i believe that such an increase in the minimum rates, combined with the already extremely high fuel prices, will have too great an impact on the consumer's pocketbook and on inflation. the parliamentary committee has finally agreed to an increase to 359 euros per thousand litres as of 1 january 2015. the netherlands is already a little ahead of us here. then there's something else. the road transport sector rightly complains that the increasingly high excise duties are putting upward pressure on the price of fuel. the commission proposal for the harmonization of diesel excise duties lacked an upper limit. in this way, the differences would continue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. finally, i hope that the finance ministers will give priority to the consumer's interest in purchasing power and in controlling inflation in their decision.
if women are free to make their own choices, then that is a simple human right. but then an economy grows and then prosperity increases. the death rate among women in developing countries is still dramatically and unacceptably high. destroyed families are the result. there's a direct link to child labor. investing in equal opportunities and freedom is investing in the future, in europe and in the developing countries. i am shocked, as is my group, that in this parliament a number of ultra-conservative amendments have been tabled to mrs feleknas uca's excellent and complete report, seeking to restrict women's rights. they're not really concerned with the selection of pregnancy, that's pure hypocrisy. they are about removing all references to even the most moderate un texts on women's rights. but sexual freedom and reproductive rights guarantee the freedom of choice for every woman. even the vatican will recognize that freedom one day. but women can't wait for that, the world can't wait for that.
in writing. − when voting for any policy which includes the term ‘sexual and reproductive health’ i understand this to mean the protection and enhancement of the life and health of the mother and the unborn. i do not accept any other definition that infers abortion to be within this term; and furthermore i understand that any care, information, policies or any other services pertaining to sexual and reproductive health similarly exclude abortion. we should work to have this definition accepted at every forum and body we can influence. i note the reply given by the council presidency in parliament on 4 december 2003 that the term reproductive health does not include the promotion of abortion and, inter alia, that abortion should never be presented as a method of family planning, contrary to what the who states on fertility regulation. it is clear, therefore, that the who definition is not binding on or even accepted by governmental and parliamentary institutions. i will continue to support policies to promote responsible sexual practices, and to protect and enhance the life and health of the mother and the unborn, including supporting the provision of resources to achieve these objectives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. even if that candidate does have a real majority, there are still doubts about the size of that majority, especially if there have been conspicuous attempts to increase it artificially. in addition to the exclusion of candidates, the exclusion of the government's preferred candidate from the press, radio and television, the inability of the opposition or foreign observers to monitor the results properly, the dispersal of peaceful protests against the official results by the army and police, and the arrest of opposition leaders, there is every reason to have serious doubts about the respect of the will of the electorate. we have seen such controversial presidential elections outside europe in mexico and kenya, and within europe in belarus, russia, georgia and armenia. armenia was already in a very difficult situation without those elections. it is traditionally strongly connected to russia, but cut off from it by neighboring georgia, which has a serious conflict with russia, and neighboring azerbaijan, which has had a border conflict with armenia for many years. the armenian-inhabited enclave of nagorno-karabakh was allocated to azerbaijan as a compromise with guaranteed regional armenian self-government after the ethnic partition of the russian province of transcaucasia in the 1920s. that solution can no longer work since the collapse of the soviet union has created two hostile states here. in fact, the area is now incorporated into armenia, which has a long-standing frozen conflict with its eastern neighbour. in such a situation of constantly threatened war and blockade, authoritarian rule is given full play and the functioning of internal democracy is permanently threatened. the events since the february 19 elections are no surprise. we must nevertheless do everything we can to help restore democratic relations and the rights of the opposition. the wishes of the european union, or its member states, to maintain good relations with the de facto rulers of countries such as russia, belarus, georgia or armenia should be subordinated to this.
- a writer. − the death penalty is a barbaric punishment and freedom of expression is enshrined in the afghan constitution. and yet, far from the capital kabul, journalist perwez kambakhsh has been sentenced to death for blasphemy for an article on women's rights in islam, which he did not even write. his brother writes critically about local leaders, which was clearly not a point in perwez's favor. this death sentence has caused a tremendous shock. even in countries where there are many muslims. journalists in pakistan, in iran, in datar, everyone is painfully aware of the importance of protecting freedom of expression everywhere, anywhere in the world. against repression, against the ultra-conservative clubs that are not interested in freedom, in women's rights, in open debate. although those conservatives themselves are in dire need of freedom of speech. what should europe do? the first. provide more assistance than pledged in 2007 for the reform of the afghan judiciary; the second. urge and support president karzai to intervene; the third. the european union must place respect for human rights and the afghan constitution at the heart of the european commission's policy. there is no point in pushing the matter any further than the ultraconservatives would like. she'd play that card. but perwez kambakhsh must be released immediately.
i'm quite shocked by mehdi's case and the fact that we don't all automatically say that he is entitled to asylum: i would say to the representatives of the dutch and british governments, and also to the people in this house who are going to vote against the resolution, ask yourselves: what is the purpose of the rule of law? is that correct and following rules and procedures to the letter, or is that doing justice? so before you cast your vote, ask yourself that question seriously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the answer is actually too simple to put into words and i am sure that the council and the commission know that very well. my clear answer is, in any case: the disarmament of hezbollah, start with that! a heavily armed, oiled organization outside the official means of power of the legitimate government is blocking the normal functioning of the lebanese state institutions and, to date, also a national political compromise. simple answers to international crises are often difficult to achieve. the same is certainly true of the urgent disarmament of hezbollah; the fear of another civil war is growing. the continuation of hezbollah's military power position, on the other hand, guarantees the continuation of the domestic influence of the two major sponsors, syria and the islamic republic of iran. the consequences are obvious: the real threat of a new violent confrontation with neighbouring israel. the connection with tehran's current hard-line nuclear policy is obvious. the council and the commission, what solution does europe propose for this lebanese dilemma? president. - i have a small question. reports in the us press today indicate that member state bulgaria is profiting for hezbollah through the drug trade. i would like to hear from the council what that is. a european member state that is making money for hezbollah through drug trafficking, that seems to me to be particularly serious.
the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. joining together, before their federation was dissolved, would probably have been easier for everyone. slovenia has now joined, croatia will follow in a few years and the third former yugoslav republic involved is macedonia, which has been waiting since 2005 for accession negotiations to be opened. i hope that my next annual report, early 2009, will be able to deal fully with the normal internal developments in macedonia, including concern for the environment, independence of the media, improvement of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, modernisation of the railways, equality of the various church bodies and freedom of negotiation for the trade union movement. this can be achieved if the two most divisive problems that have attracted attention are finally resolved. we're not that far along. understanding between the two major language communities has improved greatly since the great conflict of 2001. the ohrid agreement, which followed, and in particular the agreement on qualified parliamentary majorities and administrative decentralisation, have made a major contribution to improving mutual understanding, which is not yet free of conflict. a temporary boycott of parliament and a short-lived government crisis were the result. it is in everyone's interest that the problems which underlie it be resolved as soon as possible. the full equality of regional languages, including in administrative communication at national level, is the indispensable symbol of the complete equality of all inhabitants in a multi-ethnic state. from more than a century of linguistic conflict in the equally bilingual state of belgium, macedonia can learn that delaying that inevitable outcome only leads to unnecessary tensions. the wish that the albanian language should also be used by everyone everywhere must be taken seriously. unfortunately, the subject which was the subject of the preparation of the report, and which not only the rapporteur but all the shadow rapporteurs felt should be dealt with urgently, is still the subject of the greatest attention. together we refuse to take sides in any of the conflicting positions of the two neighbouring countries on the meaning of the name macedonia. for the applicant country, macedonia has been the name of a resistance movement against the ottoman empire, of a yugoslav state and of an independent country for over a century. for greece's southern neighbour, macedonia is an important part of its own long history and the name of the region around the greek city of thessaloniki. greece has invested a lot of capital in its northern neighbour and is the most vocal supporter of its accession to the european union. it is an important step forward that greece is no longer trying to replace the name macedonia for its northern neighbour with the term fyrom, which is completely incomprehensible to anyone, but above all wants to emphasize that this state does not include the whole of historical macedonia, but only the slavic and albanian northern part of it. i have always opposed the view that a state - and particularly a formerly communist state - should first be a member of nato before it can be admitted to the european union. in the case of macedonia, the refusal on 2 april to admit it to nato does affect the chances of its soon joining the european union. each member state has the option of preventing any newcomer, even if it would like to admit the same newcomer, if there is no disagreement on a sensitive detail. the central point of this debate is therefore paragraph 37. i have tabled a compromise amendment in this connection this morning, in agreement with the ppe-de, pse and alde groups. i'm waiting for my second term to see how they react to that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr hannes swoboda, who has again this year succeeded in presenting a balanced report. when we talk about croatia, we are talking about the final steps that the country must take to be able to conclude the negotiations. hopefully those final steps will be taken in the form of a sprint. the gaps identified by the commission should be filled. we hope that this can be done quickly, even if it involves difficult issues, as is always the case at the end of negotiations, for example the shipbuilding issue. i call on everyone, including the croatian government, to reach the necessary political consensus within the country itself, to be able to take these difficult decisions quickly, and i agree with what mr swoboda has said about the time limits within which this can all be done and in particular the conclusion of the negotiations. then on fyrom, macedonia. it is important, as the commissioner has said, that the country should try to meet the benchmarks set by the commission this year so that a decision can be taken on the start of negotiations. i think that's the fundamental thing. here again, consensus must be reached in macedonia itself; i am very concerned about this because of the new problems with the albanian minority and the vote that will take place tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in skopje, which could potentially lead to the fall of the government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is important to appeal to everyone in that country to ensure that the consensus is maintained and that we do not face a situation of new elections in the coming weeks; it is important to invest in that consensus. finally, we too regret that it was not possible to reach agreement in bucharest on macedonia's membership of nato. we think that an attempt should be made again on the basis of mediation by the un and mr nimitz, and i hope that both sides will invest in a more fruitful atmosphere so that a solution can be found quickly.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i hear a great deal of agreement here on macedonia. the negotiations must be visible and the disagreement with greece over the name must be ended. apart from mr stoyanov, who probably remembers that macedonia was initially assigned to bulgaria in 1878 at the peace of san stefano, everyone, including greece, wants macedonia to have an equal place within the european union. so far both parties have been able to explain very well what the other party has committed to long ago. greece expects macedonia to change its constitutional name and until 2 april macedonia expected greece not to block its accession to the eu. neither side realises that this is all completely incomprehensible to other europeans. both sides want this enlargement of the european union to succeed, but they also contribute to further delaying it. it's like a race to see who'll make the first move. if no one does, this expansion, whatever it may be, will not go ahead for the time being. i agree with mr kacin and mr pinior that we should not wait for further reports but should seize the first appropriate opportunity to start negotiations with macedonia. finally, mr president, in this joint debate on two candidate countries, i would like to make one comment on croatia, for which my group did not request a separate speaking time. that country wanted to come in at the beginning of 2009, but it's going to be 2010 or 2011. the biggest remaining problem is the shipbuilding on the adriatic coast. it is not for nothing that the croatian delegation of this parliament visits the shipyards at rijeka on 29 april. my group believes that we should not make demands on croatia which could be seen by the population as an insoluble problem and which would make accession to the european union unnecessarily controversial. in short, let us try to promote progress towards the european union for both countries, so that in a few years we can welcome both croatia and macedonia into our midst.
president, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, coal and steel were at the heart of the european union when it was created and they are still at the heart of it, albeit on a very different agenda of globalisation, climate change and energy issues. it's all hands on deck, so to speak; the contribution of this fund, however small, is helping to bring about the technological revolution needed to keep the steel industry competitive and to make coal a clean fuel, a clean raw material, clean coal. the european commission is also choosing to do so, on the eve of the pilot projects we have to store and capture co2, for example as a technological innovation. i am in favour of that. i'm not for closing, i'm for keeping it open. for example, nuon, one of the electricity companies in the netherlands, is planning to build a coal gasifier in groningen with complete storage, etc. these kinds of projects require support and more resources than are currently on the table. but more importantly - and mr potočnik knows this - is my call for a better combination of funds, structural funds, the involvement of the european investment bank, etc. more matching, bundling is required to allow for major research in infrastructure and investment. the existing rule of 'one fund, one project' is a real handicap for us. we have to respect those rules anyway and fortunately the european commission is already looking for those limits. on 5 and 6 march we spoke in slovenia, in brdo, about greater focus and concentration of european projects. this summer the commission will present a new approach to the esprit programme to make investment more targeted. that's the story we need to hear here, and not a story about coal-cutting. that's the wrong way to go.
the european parliament's budget for 2009 will be very special because, when the new treaty enters into force in 2009, this parliament will for the first time be involved in almost all areas of decision-making. the treaty of lisbon achieves what our predecessors asked for more than 50 years ago, without receiving more than consultative rights, more than assent procedures, co-decision and democratic control by this parliament in virtually all the policy areas of brussels. the tendency to ask for more staff is therefore strong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this budget therefore remains prudent, and that is good. where additional staff is required, a shift of posts is sought. there's not a lot of new staff coming in. that's hard to defend with nearly 6,000 employees. the work of this parliament must be made more visible. the web-tv will be launched after the summer and i wish the editorial board, on behalf of the socialist group, an independent position in which it can broadcast the debates taking place here in complete freedom. we owe this openness to our constituents. what we also owe to our voters is full control of our expenditure and good human resources policy. assistants must have a proper contract with the social security and pension systems which are normal in any european institution. at least 1 in 10 employees work here without any social protection. that's got to change. the staff regulations must be introduced, at least this year, and it is incomprehensible that part of the ppe group is trying to oppose this, in opposition to the social and solidarity spirit of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the statute also has budgetary implications. subsidies to the sakharov foundation in moscow can only be one-off, and it is not the primary role of this house to fund museums of european history. the european budget must pay for this. we have to debate this.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european commission and commissioner dimas for the green paper 'adaptation to climate change in europe - opportunities for eu action'. i would also like to thank mr guido sacconi for all the work he has done to bring about a draft resolution. i think there are many valuable elements in both documents. adaptation to climate change can be integrated into many existing legislative frameworks in areas such as water, energy, agriculture and fisheries, and industry. it is also important to assist developing countries in adapting to a changing climate, for example in the field of environmental technology transfer. i believe that the european union has a historic responsibility in this area. the main focus will be on coordinating and knowledge-sharing strategic policies at eu level. in addition, it is of the utmost importance that member states, regions, municipalities, businesses and individual citizens take responsibility for adaptation strategies. fortunately, good initiatives are already emerging in this area. i am glad that this element is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution by the rapporteur, mr sacconi. i expect the european commission and the council to give serious consideration to the recommendations of the european parliament. the eu will then be able to speak with one voice to the other partners in the international climate debate at the forthcoming poznan and copenhagen climate conferences.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, adaptation to climate change needs to be given much more attention very quickly, because whatever we do to combat climate change, it requires investment to adapt societies to rising sea levels, more water in rivers, or less water and drought. all of this has implications for safety, water management, soil, agriculture and, of course, public health. some areas should prepare for severe drought and increased heat. irrigation systems, but also clean desalination plants are the solutions. other areas are facing waterlogging and need to invest in raising dikes. it is up to the member states themselves to plan and analyse the effects of climate change and prepare for them. but three points are important. first of all, solidarity is really needed; some countries are being dragged along by others, and some countries have more capacity than others. it goes without saying that there is also a shared responsibility within the european union. secondly, it means that there must also be a common source of funding. we must look for sources of funding and it is obvious to look at the structural funds, but also at the proceeds of the ets auctions. thirdly, solidarity must of course also apply to developing countries. many african and asian countries have contributed little to climate change themselves, but are experiencing its harms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as the epp coordinator for regional policy, i would like to point out that this resolution contains very important points. we are establishing a link between cohesion policy and risk management as an integral and explicit part of the future policy for the regions of europe. the position of regions in the union is also changing as a result of climate change. on one side, we can think of drought, on the other side, we can think of too much water, of sea level rise. as a dutch representative, i find that appealing. we're halfway below sea level. sea-level rise is needed, but there is much more to it in terms of the technological challenge. this is even more true in other parts of the world. it is also good that we are seeking to align ourselves with the united nations strategy for risk prevention. this cohesion - and i am referring to the lisbon treaty - will have a new territorial dimension which we must develop and which we can also include in financial programmes. it is also happening close to people, in regions and cities; europe is also being represented. the epp is against the first part of paragraph 13 because we are not at present voting for the redistribution of funds but for the re-prioritization. and that's what's happening. we see in the structural funds that more than 15 billion is already being spent on energy efficiency, biofuels, etc. ♪ that's the way we want to go ♪ ♪ we want to go on ♪ we will also be revising the regulation on the structural funds to improve energy efficiency. that is the line of the epp and we will be taking part in the long-term debates on finance - and that is part two of paragraph 13 - taking the lead, for possible reallocation, prioritization, but not at this time. i think that the commission should be able to do this by means of a budgetary and sectoral commitment rather than by redistributing resources at the moment.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, although i do not fundamentally disagree with mr cohn-bendit on the name, i think that mr swoboda's proposal should be followed. i think it is wise to discuss further developments in parliament and find a solution to this problem, and the negotiations and contacts between macedonia and greece are also important in the coming days. i therefore think it is wise to postpone the vote until strasbourg.
i would like to begin by wishing jutta haug all the best for this important task, which she is now carrying out for the second time. the year 2008 will be a very important one, not only because the ordinary budget for 2009 has to be adopted - as many have already said - but also because we have to establish a procedure for adopting the budget for 2010 under the new treaty. this year we must make clear what exactly parliament can and cannot do. there is still a great deal of uncertainty about agriculture. if i read the treaty correctly, the council can this time unilaterally fix prices and quotas. how does this compare with the new budgetary authority for agriculture in category ii? we would have equal powers. it's a priority to find out. the food and energy policy remains important and perhaps we can solve it within the 5% margin that the interinstitutional agreement offers us. i would ask the commission to consider this.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. i am not only speaking as a politician, as a social democrat, but also as a historian. such interpretations often promote myths that can be a breeding ground for, for example, xenophobia because of the exclusive nature of such visions. this is of course extremely dangerous in a europe marked by diversity, including ethnic diversity. there are no simple answers to difficult historical questions. this impression is sometimes given by those who make populist use of interpretations of history. falsification of history is also used to promote oblivion, for example by denying the holocaust or covering up the crimes of other totalitarian regimes. and there's also the danger of selectivity. historical standards are sometimes set for one situation and not for another. sometimes there is no distinction at all and one situation is judged in the same way as another. the result is that people are confused and don't know how to experience history because politicians have run away with the historical truth, because comparisons are made too easily. we as a group think this is important this year because this is also the year in which we commemorate the prague uprising, the prague spring, but also, for example, kristallnacht. we think it is important that the commission and the council take the lead in promoting a debate based on facts, based on scientific research. not to establish some sort of common position, but to make sure that people know that the discussion we're having is based on the right information. i would also like to make sure that the debate can continue in a good way. i would like to stress once again that we are not here to forget important and terrible episodes of our history. of course not, it's all about learning. but what we also need to prevent is the misuse of history. there is a very important moral issue at stake here. i think it is important to emphasize once again that in our contributions this afternoon and tonight we are also including a number of colleagues who have personally faced the consequences of totalitarian regimes. this is an important debate for us and we will certainly continue it this year.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am trying to put myself in the position of the parents of a three-year-old girl who has been diagnosed with a heart defect and for whom a three-year-old heart - which is not easy to find - is not available in their own country. in another country in europe, there is a lot of it, but that country is not interested in european cooperation. in that case i would call for european action. that is why this european action is necessary. in europe, 400,000 people are currently on an organ waiting list, and of these, about ten die every day because of a shortage of organs. in the field of safety and quality criteria, the excellent adamou report very rightly advocates against any possible aggravation by brussels regulations. but the forthcoming legislation - which i am glad the commissioner has just promised - should not, in fact, lead to an increase in bureaucratic burdens. because if there's one sector vulnerable to bureaucracy, it's this one. i am also very pleased that you have just said that you want to make as many transplants as possible possible and not restrict them. i think that's an important angle. however, there is a need for guarantees for enhanced cooperation between member states. cross-border cooperation means that the transplantation process is handled by hospitals and doctors from different legal systems. last year, former health commissioner kyprianou called for the introduction of a european donor card. and wisdom, mr adamou and mrs vassiliou, wisdom is obviously from cyprus. this card, whether or not incorporated into the european health card, can ensure that the organs made available are treated as efficiently as possible. eurobarometer surveys show that 81% of citizens support the use of an organ donor card, although only 12% of europeans have one. the adamou report calls for the creation of a voluntary european donor card and i would therefore like to take this opportunity, commissioner, to call on you to come forward with legislation before the end of the year which would make such a card possible, complementing national cards.
mr president, the previous speakers have said it: organ donation is a sensitive subject. it is also a subject which i believe should be dealt with largely at member state level. nevertheless, a european approach can be useful, particularly in the field of quality requirements and the exchange of information. the commission has also taken a number of initiatives to combat illegal organ trafficking. the own-initiative report by mr adamou makes an important contribution to this idea, and i should like to thank him for it. some colleagues have advocated the introduction of a 'no objection' system, but i have serious concerns about this. we should not force anyone to make a choice about organ donation if he has not made a clear and responsible decision himself. i am glad that this point is placed in the present resolution under the responsibility of the member states. finally, i would like to support the amendments tabled by my colleagues sinnot, liese and bowis, among others, on the proven benefits of using adult stem cells.
the role of volunteers is particularly important at local and regional level. social and economic cohesion is taking on a very personal face there. in europe, there is a difference between cities in certain parts of europe. in the so-called new member states, the number of volunteers is still very low. there is a lot of work to be done and mrs harkin's report gives strongly positive ideas for support for volunteers and activation at all levels. the ppe-de believes that there is no question of volunteers on the one hand and professionals on the other. there's no tension between them. one cannot exist without the support of the other. both elements, the professional and the voluntary sectors, fit into the social model that characterizes europe, in civil society, where the influence of citizens is also high. that's the well-known partnership principle. i would like to make one point from the results of the debate in committee. article 17, which is also new in wording, deals with the question of whether voluntary work should be encouraged in the tax system. the answer is yes, but the interpretation of it can be very different. that is the responsibility of our national governments, particularly when we talk about vat. in my own country, the netherlands, there is a system of its own: activities of, for example, sports associations are exempted, other activities, such as canteen management, are also partly exempted, and sponsorship by third parties is also partly exempted. it is therefore appropriate to take this report on board in 2010, when the revision of the vat regime is under discussion, and to point out good examples in the national member states which can be taken up by others. finally, and this is just one more thing, volunteer work deserves our support in church, politics and other social work.
in writing . the question of the new flame shipwreck off gibraltar seems to be primarily about the conflict between spain and britain over gibraltar. it is of the utmost importance that diplomatic chatter does not overshadow the impending environmental disaster off the spanish coast. that's the real problem. the first priority must always be to protect the environment. there is also the problem of responsibility. we are now seeing yet another case of a ship sailing under a flag of convenience to evade regulations and taxes and now getting into trouble. the eu should be committed to preventing this kind of abuse of international rules. it should be crystal clear who is responsible for accidents like this.
i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs who have contributed to this discharge procedure. i should like to use the two minutes i have to discuss the commission's discharge report by mr jørgensen. the court of auditors published its report last november and that report was considerably better than in previous years because it included percentages. that deserves to be followed in future reports. when that report was published, it was almost as if the commission were claiming victory. the report was never as good as it is today. 44% of the commission's expenditure was approved by the court of auditors. i have to say, i didn't find it a moment to sit back and say, "this is the best thing we've ever done". no, it can be considerably better. it is striking that the commission had actually ignored the recommendations of parliament in previous discharge resolutions. what has been important to parliament in the last three years? those were the national statements. what does the commission say? we will not respect these national declarations. that's a little too much. it is also in the financial perspective, in an interinstitutional agreement. fortunately, the commission has reversed its course and is now going to do so. but there's a second point. the commissioners cannot co-sign the statements of the directors-general. it's a mystery to me why that can't be done. we can welcome the commissioners in the cocobu, as the commission itself offers and as they regularly hear about the progress made, but the commissioners cannot sign anything with parliament. how do you explain that legally? i can only say, mr president, that we hope that next year will be even better. the liberal group will take a constructive approach to all this, as it has in the past.
i would like to quote the most famous scientist of our time, mr. einstein. he said that evil does not exist because of the perpetrators, but because of the fact that many people turn their heads away. that is the case here in parliament. we have known for decades that there is a lot of bullshit going on about assistants' fees, travel fees, general expenses, daily allowances, fees for visiting groups and fees for political groups. i hope that now, before the 2009 elections, parliament will finally do something about this, and not just keep empty promises as it has done in the past decades. in the meantime, i think we should actually postpone the discharge. i think it's not marketable to the voters if we give ourselves a discharge.
mr president, a great deal has been said today about the discharge of parliament. i would therefore like to confine myself to saying that i certainly hope, as a former assistant, that the statute for assistants, which has been discussed for so long, will finally become a reality. because let's face it, the current rules give way too much leeway. that's the problem. many colleagues are dealing with this correctly, but there is no guarantee at the moment. so the rules must be tightened up and the services of this house will also have to be more consistent in dealing with cases where these rules are not being followed. our services have failed to do so in the past. that said, i should like to focus on what i believe is the main problem, if not the headache, of the discharge to the commission, which comes up every year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a gap caused by the fact that the commission is fully responsible for european spending, while 80% of it is managed by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as a parliament rightly state in the jørgensen report that the present annual summaries are only a first cautious step towards these management declarations. i now know that an amendment to the interinstitutional agreement and the financial regulation is necessary to formally introduce the national declarations. but i am at any rate satisfied for the time being with the commission's commitment last month to encourage other member states to introduce national declarations as well. but i said, quite deliberately, 'provisionally satisfied', dear commissioner, because the proof of the pudding is in the eating and my group will be watching closely in the coming months how the commission puts this commitment into practice through concrete actions. and the fact that the council is not here today indicates that there is still work to be done. we will take these findings into account when we come back here next year for the 2007 discharge. so be prosecuted!
in writing. the committee on budgetary control wishes to give the european commission a discharge in respect of the financial management of the 2006 financial year. i do not support her in this because it would be better to postpone the discharge decision until the autumn. the european commission is trying to correct the large number of errors in the structural funds. the european parliament also wants to follow up the action points proposed in a working group. however, the question remains whether the actions will have the desired effect. the number of errors in the structural funds has been too high for years. the practice is particularly unfavourable in the case of the structural funds: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of new buildings. those rules are part of the legislation that applies until 2013. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. it can also encourage member states to make more use of national management declarations, whereby the minister is responsible for spending eu funds in the member state. finally, i would like to call for a good solution for the position of employees so that there are no problems with their social obligations and tax payments.
president, members, commissioner, it has already been said that some 850 million people suffer from hunger or malnutrition every day. the curious thing is that most of these people live in the countryside and produce their own food. this is bizarre. something is very wrong there. we are now also dealing with the enormous rise in food prices. various developments are due to this and have already been mentioned. increasing prosperity in china and india with a growing demand for meat products, the biofuel targets of europe and the united states, rising energy prices, you name it. the world food programme needs an additional $7 million this year to help the same number of people as last year. the impact on the poorest of the poor is immense. new strategies will be needed, first of all in the short term. in the short term we will have to make up the shortfall in the world food programme. and i welcome the commissioner's pledges to commit additional resources to this, for example by bringing forward the food aid expenditure planned for later this year and by using the humanitarian aid reserves. but there is a good dutch proverb that says: prevention is better than cure. that is why we must also look at longterm policies. how can we ensure food security in the developing countries? what can we encourage and how can we give them space? we know which policies of ours, of the imf, of the world bank, are helping or endangering food security. can we not do more with our agricultural policy? i would also like to ask the commission to what extent food security has been part of the work programme so far in recent years, because globalisation does not come out of the blue. as for the 'prevention is better than the cure' principle, i would like to refer to the success formula of the hunger project, an international organisation which has already achieved good and lasting results in several countries through an integrated approach. i would also like to draw attention to the implementation of the common strategy for africa, the eu-africa strategy. it gives special attention to partnership for the development of the african agricultural sector. my question is how the commission is also acting in this respect.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs gomez on her excellent work on a subject which is delicate, difficult and even controversial, and that is quite normal. however, i agree with many of your recommendations on the policy that the european union should adopt in the face of china's growing power in africa. the european union and china actually have a number of fundamental commonalities in their relations with africa. these are two actors, first of all, who perhaps understood more or, at least, earlier than others, the great potential of africa. the european union and china are also among the largest trading partners investing in africa, ranking first and third globally respectively. this reality naturally justifies much more cooperation, consultation and perhaps common strategies between china and europe about africa, but with africa. you said it yourself, i share that view. so i would like to talk to you today about what i think are promising areas to engage china and our african partners in trilateral cooperation. i would also like to share with you my doubts and questions on other points and, finally, to inform you of the action i intend to take on your report. first, africa is living in a time of global economy and globalization. it is increasingly asserting its role as an international and global actor, and is mobilizing on major global issues. it has developed a vast network of partnerships around the world with a strong desire to rebuild its relations. to tell the truth, she now puts, sometimes awkwardly, by the way, but she's right to do so, she now puts the partners in competition. it is a reality, and i would even say that it is fair and legitimate, and it implies that its partners finally adopt a modern, confident and loyal attitude. this new approach, i believe that the european union and china are probably ready to implement it and are eager to do so, perhaps for different reasons, but clearly they are ready to implement it. we are both major partners of africa. our african policy is certainly different in terms of principles and values, but on the ground it is possible to identify a large number of shared interests and points of convergence. for example, we have already started a dialogue on peace, stability and sustainable development in africa. but we must, of course, go further with the important support of our african friends, who must play a leading role in this dialogue. this explains the trilateral approach i proposed last year, which you seem to share in a large measure, particularly when you propose the establishment of a permanent platform. in this context, you rightly stress the importance of equality and mutual respect which must be the basis of this trilateral partnership. and here, at the risk of obviously opening up a controversy, europe must understand that it is not necessarily very effective, at the present stage, and in the face of a partner like china, to set itself up as master by pretending to dictate our conditions unilaterally. we must therefore avoid all generalizations in order to create a dynamic of dialogue and i believe that once we have opened or succeeded in opening the dynamic of dialogue with china, we will be able, through this dialogue, to address the issues of the rule of law, democracy, governance, in other words, everything that in some way underpins the values of europe and all the sources of inspiration for our policies. i agree with you that we must also adopt a european policy which is more effective and perhaps even faster, because that is the great advantage the chinese have over us. it is also more attractive, more in line with the real priorities of our african partners. i just want to give you an example. we are literally powerless, as european institutions, to implement programmes or aid, or interventions in all post-conflict situations. we have had the case, for example, of liberia, i give you this case, where we have a government that came out of legitimate elections, with a president who has a real agenda and who wants change. where are we in the efficiency that will be required to bring this country to show that there are dividends of peace, stability and democracy? nowhere! i say this because i suffer from it every day. this modernisation of european policy towards africa has been my priority since the beginning of my mandate and i believe i can say that we have already made a lot of progress, in particular with the establishment of the strategic partnerships resulting from the lisbon summit, but there is still, of course, a great deal to be done. the reduction of poverty remains the main objective of our development policy, which must be achieved through wealth creation and economic growth. this economic growth, china is living it every day and this experience can, of course, be of benefit to african countries. but of course, any economic growth must be accompanied by an active redistributive policy if it is to be effective in fighting poverty. i have often had the opportunity to say that growth does not guarantee development. we need redistribution, and redistribution, and we need a strong state for that. we also need a vigilant society, we need a free press, we need all of that. i think that the european union and china have a real role to play in this area, but it is a process which will take time and require a lot of effort from both sides. i would like to share with you some of the questions i have. is it, for example, really realistic, i do not know, is it constructive, is it useful, is it even desirable, to begin this cooperation by strongly demanding that china adopt the guidelines and standards set by the cap? i doubt that. if it works out, it's better, but i doubt it. i do not think that the africans are particularly keen to see china go down this road precisely because they are looking for alternatives to how to do development aid in europe. the chinese aid is appreciated precisely because it is faster than european aid, because it does not impose so many constraints that ultimately reduce the political space of africans because, in the background, there is still something. there must be some kind of misunderstanding. very often we hear, "you europeans impose conditions!" that's not true, man. our cooperation, the means we spend, are not bound by political conditions. nature, the modulation of our aid, yes. for budget support, for example, if there is no good governance, there will be no budget support. in a country in conflict, we will not give budgetary aid. but that doesn't stop us, even when we disagree with the power in place or the regime, from doing development aid or doing humanitarian aid. what is fundamentally different, there is a confusion, is that, with the chinese, the responsiveness, the "disbursement" goes much faster than us, with our procedures, which have made my life almost impossible for almost 4 years. that is the reality, that is where the confusion and misunderstanding lie, and i think that also needs to be said. i agree with your analysis, of course. it is important to see chinese aid gradually aligned with african national priorities, with their national systems, preferably in coordination with other partners on the ground. the fact remains that it is premature, and perhaps even counterproductive, to try to force things along this line today, and above all to try to do so unilaterally. this is a long-term objective, but for the time being i can only see three areas where our cooperation and dialogue could be concentrated. one, the establishment of an open and constructive dialogue between us, long-standing donors, and china on africa. second, we can exchange chinese and african development experiences with our own to advance together the development agenda. a concrete example: china has developed a lot of programs that use photovoltaics, for example. it is clear that on a continent like africa, there is an extraordinary area of trilateral cooperation, here is an example. i spoke to the minister of commerce, who i met at a meeting in tonga, and he's very open about it. we shall discuss this again in beijing, because when i leave you i shall go to beijing, so we shall discuss these questions again. thirdly, to respect our commitments to the paris agenda. it is all about harmonizing our rules, and it is all about the division of labour and i call on parliament to help us, to push our member states to make their actions match their speeches. all the development ministers, all the european prime ministers, all of them, without exception, agree that it is better to divide up the work, that more coordination is needed to be consistent, and so on. yeah, but when you offer them real division of labor strategies, they're absent-minded followers. i hear that too, because it's a reality. as you will have understood, my objective is not just to bring china into the cap, i go far beyond that by first seeking to find common ground with the multiple chinese actors in africa, including the government, in order to promote the development of africa. we europeans and chinese must, of course, start from the african agenda and contribute our respective contributions and advantages, without having to derogate from the values and principles which have ensured stability, peace and prosperity in europe for the last 50 years. this does not make me a dreamer or a naïve, but on the contrary, it is important to recognize, as you do, that china's engagement raises questions and sometimes concerns in africa itself. i too am sometimes concerned, of course, about the way in which cooperation with china is developing, but that is precisely why i am advocating dialogue. it is clear that china pursues its economic, diplomatic and strategic interests in africa. europe too often makes the grave mistake of not admitting that it is tempted by the same thing and, rather than hiding and camouflaging itself behind discourses, sometimes very hypocritical, it would be much better to affirm that africa is a continent with potential, that it is a privileged continent in its relations with europe and that we have common interests to discover, generate and forge. and i think that would be the win-win strategy, because that's the only way that we're going to get out of the relationship, which to me is very negative, of the recipient to the donor, because it's always marked by humiliation, by contempt, and it's always marked by a sense of dependence on the other, that is, the weaker versus the stronger. i have already said that i will be in beijing the day after tomorrow and i will try, mrs gomez, to give a tentative start to a positive interpretation of your very, very good report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external relations are not affected by the crisis. the chinese authorities should respect the principles of democracy, good governance and human rights in their relations with africa. the foreign affairs committee therefore regrets china's purely pragmatic cooperation with the repressive regimes in africa. the people's republic of china's commercial presence on african soil has environmental effects which china must deal with responsibly. the reports in the western press are sending out alarming signals about the exploitation of nature, particularly in the congo delta. and these signals range from oil exploitation and overfishing to deforestation, notably in an official nature reserve. the committee on foreign affairs also regrets that beijing is excluding a number of african states from the china-africa strategic partnership simply because of their diplomatic contacts with taiwan. this chinese attitude is not only contrary to its own principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of third countries, but also in conflict with the current rapprochement between taiwan and beijing.
president, in paragraph 65 of her in-depth report, mrs gomes calls on the european union and china not to trade in arms with african governments which are guilty of human rights violations, are involved in conflicts, or are teetering on the brink of war. i agree with the rapporteur on this point. the same applies to the concrete examples she gives. and in the african states, mugabe's zimbabwe certainly stands out these days. late last week, the western press reported on a large-scale chinese arms shipment to the mugabe regime via south africa, as if internal tensions in zimbabwe had not already been heightened by all the presidential election machinations. when we travel to china, it is like coming home, president mugabe said during his last visit to beijing, about a year and a half ago. when will the chinese leadership really distance itself from these and other african "friends of home"? commissioner, i expect you to put this urgent question in beijing. the gomes report also gives every reason for this.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). i wonder why it has not succeeded in recent years and why it can now. let's hope it can. i also welcome the words of mr mate, that the visa exemption should apply to all citizens of the european union and not to all member states - and that is quite a difference. in this connection, i would also like to draw attention to the ban on the entry of people with hiv into the united states. i hope you will also support the lifting of the travel ban. i would also like to know what you think of mr chertoff's statement in this week's washington post that fingerprinting by airlines will be a condition for granting visa exemption. that is a very new element and i would like to know what you think about it. next we'll get to the pnr. if the americans' demands on pnr go beyond what is now regulated in the eu/us treaty - which has not yet been ratified - does that mean that the treaty will also be abrogated immediately? we need to know what the implementing protocols say on this and i wonder why we do not have any information on this. i think that's a weird situation. then there is the electronic system for travel authorizations and the protection of personal data. i'm not entirely convinced that that's been handled properly. the 12 principles we have seen so far are of course good. but as with the third pillar - the framework decision for the european union itself - the problem is not the principles, but the long list of exceptions to them. i want guarantees on that, not just principles. i also want to know how that will work in practice before we give permission to give everyone's data to other countries just like that. then there is the question of the democratic legitimacy of this. how will you ensure democratic control? i do not think that the proposal of a committee of experts is democratic or transparent. i think this is now a typical case for parliamentary scrutiny. finally, i hope that the commission and the council have learned their lesson, namely that we are much stronger as the european union when we are united and not divided, and when we also settle these kinds of matters in public with the parliamentary support of the european parliament.
mr president, as far as the visa-exemption programme is concerned, the statements are frankly not very reassuring and some inquiries have already confirmed this suspicion. previous versions of the proposed mandate for the commission have been further elaborated. in short, a meager result. in any case, at least six member states, and perhaps now malta too, have signed a memorandum of understanding with the americans. the rules of application are not yet known and the contours of the national railway are therefore completely unclear. in this connection, and in view of the meagre mandate of the commission, i have the following question: why are member states part of the european union? is there such a thing as community? the americans' game can only be stopped if the 27 member states act in unison. the point is that we as a union are sending a strong signal to the other side of the atlantic. we must dare to exploit our potentially powerful bargaining position. with all due respect, i find the behaviour of certain member states unacceptable in this house. the argument that the commission has made too little progress in recent years for the member states concerned sounds good, but it is disproportionate in terms of the behaviour shown. it is high time that we put our hands in our own bosom and not just refer to the united states. the eu is, quite frankly, making a complete fool of itself in this way.
rapporteur. − mr president, the oral amendment by mr landsbergis obliges me to explain the complicated situation concerning a name. ‘fyrom’ has never been the name of any country but can only be an abbreviation of ‘former yugoslav republic of macedonia’. in my previous report, adopted by the plenary meeting of this parliament on 12 july 2007, it was decided not to introduce the use of this abbreviation as a name but only to use those five words. the conclusion was to replace all other terms included in amendments by ‘former yugoslav republic of macedonia’. i propose to maintain this line. the oral amendment proposed by mr landsbergis is not in line with this decision. i expect that during 2008 an agreement with greece will solve the different views on the names of this state and that then the term fyrom will be forgotten forever.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let us be frank and open: as frontex is a coordinating agency, we cannot expect it to stop the influx of irregular migrants in itself and of itself, nor to put an end to the trafficking in human beings. frontex is not, and never will be, a panacea to all the problems caused by irregular migration. at the very end it is simple: eu border security is the ultimate responsibility of all member states, and border controls must be operated in a spirit of sharing responsibilities and solidarity between member states. over the past years, we have been facing a genuine paradox. one could hear member states inviting frontex to stop the flow of irregular migrants immediately and to deploy as much equipment as possible. however, the centralised record of available technical equipment, as you know, is just a virtual record. the assets on this list belong to the member states and they are subject to their will to deploy them. clearly, we could debate the will of a number of member states. as for the financial perspective, if frontex were to deploy all the equipment at once, its budget would evaporate immediately. therefore, the main question still to be answered – and i am addressing the council – is whether the council is ready to extend the principle of compulsory solidarity, obliging all member states to deliver, i.e. a mandatory solidarity mechanism. over the past years, member states have repeatedly reaffirmed the importance of ensuring full respect for international human rights obligations in managing migration. member states underlined the importance of european solidarity in burden-sharing as the founding principles. yet, too often, effective decision-making is hamstrung by the inability of these member states to work together in their mutual interest. would the president-in-office agree that the time for words is passed and the time for action has come? would you not agree that in a world marked by increasing regional conflicts and a growing gap between rich and poor, mobility will increase rather than diminish? is it not high time that the member states put themselves in a position to respond to that challenge with a radical, yet responsible, revision of their views on what is supposed to be a comprehensive package on a common – and i repeat, common – migration policy? unfortunately, i have to leave the chamber now, as i am taking part in the ongoing high-level trialogue on the return directive. however, i look forward to receiving your detailed reply at your earliest convenience.
president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, two weeks ago i represented the committee on the environment and the committee on climate change at the informal environment council in slovenia in the autumn. two issues were central: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the union's external action. most of the emphasis was on biodiversity, biomass and biofuels in relation to forest biodiversity. the possibilities of forest biomass for energy supply, in particular for second generation biofuels, and sustainability criteria for the use of forest biomass were discussed. it was a successful conference, thanks to the slovenian chairman, minister podobnic. we see that deforestation and illegal logging threaten many species with extinction. they are experiencing a profound change in their environment and as a result cannot survive. forests provide a very varied variety of both plants and animals. it is therefore essential, in the context of the protection of biodiversity, to halt deforestation wherever possible. this applies not only to countries outside the european union, but also to the european member states. good forest management should be promoted, especially since forests are also very valuable in other areas. deforestation also leads to serious soil erosion, especially in mountainous areas, and to a disruption of water management, which further seriously affects biodiversity. global warming can also affect the diversity of species. large shifts are taking place in species ranges, which are putting some species at serious risk, particularly in the northern regions. forestry in tropical regions appears to be only exacerbating warming, partly by greatly reducing the capacity to store co2. however, studies published in recent years in nature and science, among others, show that increasing forest cover also leads to higher emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas 23 times more potent than co2. as the temperature rises and the sun shines more, more methane is emitted. the emissions of methane are much higher in tropical areas. additional forest planting leads to additional co2 capture capacity, but some of that co2 capture is thus offset by an increase in methane emissions. nevertheless, the balance remains positive, especially in the non-tropical regions. finally, the negative effects on biodiversity of the factors mentioned are unfortunately exacerbated by the current production of biofuels, which is destroying mainly tropical rainforests. the species-rich forests are being replaced by plantations with low species cover, which also have negative effects on greenhouse gas emissions, absorption capacity and food prices. i am glad that this is being brought up in this resolution. we must also be vigilant about second-generation biofuels.
i would like to say a great deal, mr president, about my ideas on the reform of the wto, but instead i would like to put a number of specific questions to the commission which i would like to have answered. these questions illustrate the points that we need to take into account in the debate on wto reform alongside the procedural reforms already mentioned, such as transparency. in the context of climate change, there is an increasing emphasis on the use of biofuels. i do not want to go into the debate whether this is good or bad, but i do want to raise the following questions with regard to the european union's obligations under the wto. the eu's climate change package includes a number of environmental criteria that biofuels should meet. however, i would like to see, and many of my colleagues would like to see, that social criteria are also set out, such as minimum wages and the prevention of child labour. is this compatible with the wto requirements? if not, are we not forced into a position of taking child labor and underpayment for granted? another question about the trade in gmo food. i believe that the cartagena protocol gives the member states a free choice about the authorization of gmos. is this compatible with the wto and, if not, how are you going to solve it? parliament has indicated that it is in the majority against the seal fur trade. canada is now threatening to challenge this through the wto. how do you think you can maintain the wish of the majority of the eu population in this area? i think these questions are very important and should be taken into account in the reform.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the developing countries, and the european union has also expressed its concern about the situation in the developing countries. now we're back here tonight, and we're talking about genetically modified animal feed. it might have been a good idea to combine the two debates. this rather technical subject of animal feed is of course part of the wider debate on food security and rising food prices. how justified is it to destroy or refuse shipments of animal feed because of the unintentional presence of traces, very small quantities, of genetically modified product? i do not think that is very reasonable, either in view of the food security i mentioned or in view of rising prices. because feed prices have been rising a lot lately, and they will do so even more if we continue to maintain this attitude. many producers are only seeing their costs rise as a result, and i think it is worth stressing once again that the price increases we keep talking about do not automatically mean that farmers will also receive a better income. as has already been said, for example in the pig sector the cost of feed is increasing and the margins are actually only getting smaller. how can we get out of this impasse? not by suddenly being careless about admission procedures. no, i'm sure it wasn't. but i think there are two points which are not quite right, and we must find a solution to them. first of all, as struan stevenson has already said, it takes considerably longer in the european union before a gmo can be authorized for animal feed: two and a half years with us, over a year in the us. i have heard the commission talk about making the efsa more efficient, but that is not the whole problem, of course. the problem is also the ping-pong in the council committees, which can neither find a qualified majority for approval nor a qualified majority against approval, and then finally, after much deliberation, the decision is taken by the commission. so that's part of the problem, and that procedure needs to be speeded up. this is certainly not an argument for automatic authorization of products, but i think people have a right to know sooner whether a product can be authorized for the european market. secondly, we will have to find a solution to the unintentional presence of genetically modified traces in animal feed, for example through a threshold value, especially in the case of gmos which have already received a positive assessment from the efsa. and especially when you consider that the carbonates of the pigs that have eaten that feed outside the european union are just sitting in the store with us. speaking of unfair competition! i regret that i have not heard the commission on thresholds. she's referring to existing legislation. but let's face it, we do use a threshold in labeling, so i think it's possible. in short, do not let producers and consumers suffer because of the indecision of the council committees. now is the time to provide clarity and speed.
i would like to thank the committee on agriculture and the house for following my initiative to discuss this matter here tonight. one of the strange things is that the cultivation of genetically modified crops is increasing all over the world, but only we in europe have a tremendous fear of the cold water on that point. the big question is how. the commissioner says with great conviction: the legislation is the law, and we must abide by it. but if the changed circumstances require that the legislation be changed, then the commission will have to do it anyway. i think the time is right. i asked about it recently, but one genetically modified crop is not the other. there's a big difference between transgenic and cisgenic: one is a species and the other is not. both are covered by the same legislation and the commission should take the necessary steps to change the legislation in this respect. the essence of the whole story, i think, is zero tolerance. there are few situations in the world where you can demand absolute zero tolerance. there must always be a way to leave a certain margin of difference. if i'm speeding for a distance of 30 miles, in most countries there's a tolerance of about two miles before i get a ticket. why is this not possible for the import of goods? why is a tolerance of, say, 0.8 or 0.9% not possible? can the commissioner give me a clear answer to that? i too welcome the fact that there is a discussion going on with the efsa to shorten the procedures without compromising quality. but have the efsa indicated whether or not this is possible? a conversation alone is not enough because time is running out. and then there's the next point. perhaps the commissioner can explain to me how i as a politician can explain to the general public that we are allowed to consume a lot of products here that we are not allowed to produce here. we are allowed to import unlimited quantities of all products from all over the world that come from animals that have been fed products that are prohibited here. what's the use of that? what's the explanation for that? perhaps the commissioner can give me an idea for the next election campaign. i would like to ask, finally, what are the consequences of the commission's attitude in relation to the wto? can we just do this?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of genetically modified organisms. we are not going to allow such gmos - i call them artificial food - simply because it is in the economic interest. not as far as i'm concerned. i really put public health, the environment and biodiversity first. brussels is already obliging countries to allow certain gmos, even if they are not willing to do so. this is contrary to the cartagena protocol, which allows countries to refuse new gmo products if they have doubts about their safety. let the member states decide which risk products they allow. i'm not alone in my protest. gmos are causing a stir among large groups of citizens. we see this in poland, in romania, in austria and in cyprus. in the netherlands, for example, there is growing opposition to monsanto's test fields in places like raalte and gemert-bakel. the risk is real that monsanto's engineered seeds will spread to nearby fields of conventional or organic farmers, and that's when these farmers never want the weeds. i am also concerned about monsanto's plans to take over the dutch seed company de ruiter, one of the world's top 10 seed companies. it is clear that monsanto wants to increase its infiltration in europe. either in anticipation of more flexible rules, or to put pressure on politicians to relax those rules very quickly. we must oppose that vigorously. we are more concerned with public health, the environment and biodiversity than with corporate profits.
madam president, when the commissioner answers, could she say something about the possibilities of increasing the tolerance level from zero to a higher percentage, say 0.7%, 0.9% or whatever it is? from listening to the debate, i think that is the essence of what has been said. zero tolerance in the present circumstances is a bit too stringent.
i would like to thank mrs anne ferreira for her report on market-compliant instruments for environmental objectives. one of the pillars of the present proposal is the polluter pays principle. this is an important starting point because it allows for a fair distribution of the burden. that is one reason why i am in favour of a full accounting of all external costs, including environmental costs, in manufactured and consumer goods. this creates a realistic picture and allows for fair competition. last november, i attended the beyond gdp conference. it has spoken at length about the possibilities of using indicators other than gross domestic product alone to measure the prosperity of society. in practice, social and environmental factors play a role alongside economic ones. you may be financially strapped, but when you live in a crowded city with an excess of air pollution, the level of prosperity is still limited. i am glad that this is also mentioned as a point of concern in mrs ferreira's report. finally, i would like to express my support for two specific articles in mrs ferreira's report, articles 58 and 59. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the development of the water sector.
i would like to congratulate mr radwan on the completion of this thorough report. it was negotiated until the last minute. it has become a clear, but sometimes critical, report. the rapporteur is convinced that democratic control of the iasb needs to be improved and i am glad that the iasb is heeding these criticisms. the chairman of the board of trustees, mr gerrit zalm, recently expressed his openness to this in the european parliament and indicated that he would prepare proposals for the adjustment of the structure. the iasb is working on ifrs standards for small and medium-sized enterprises. i agree with the rapporteur that the accounting standards under ifrs are too complicated and too costly for smes. i also believe that encouraging the voluntary use of ifrs by smes would risk a disguised european introduction. i think that a distinction should be made between the size of the enterprise and the size of the undertaking. for large multinationals and banks and insurance companies operating worldwide, it is good to have one standard for annual accounts. it is better for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe to maintain their own standards. the iasb has achieved a great deal with regard to international listed companies and the accounting standard for them. if smes now indicate that costs and effort can be achieved equally well with several standards, then this should not be imposed from above with one standard. the interests of investors and the need for transparency must be taken into account. politics is there to facilitate good, transparent and cost-effective information on the performance of business. i think the benefits that ifrs has had for european equity markets are globally applicable, especially when the united states switches from their system of us-gaap to ifrs. the global investor and shareholder have a strong interest in this in terms of comparability. the idea behind the ifrs therefore deserves the support of the european parliament.
i would like to join in congratulating mr radwan, mr president, if only because his report has enabled us to have a very interesting discussion on the tension between legislation and self-regulation, especially in a global context. i realize the gap we're in with our desires. on the one hand we want these global standards to be applied worldwide, but on the other hand we claim our responsibility as co-legislators to be able to assess the content of these standards and to play our role as co-legislators seriously. i think we have shown in recent times that we do that as a european parliament. the key, in my view, is early consultation, balancing the interests of all shareholders, including so-called third party interests of employees, local authorities, suppliers and the like (because adequate financial reporting is not only in the interests of capital providers), and proper impact assessments. as the commission, you also have a great responsibility in this respect. the same must therefore be done in the future in the field of small and mediumsized enterprises. we really must make this a real project for the eu. finally, i would like to make two comments which also concern another report which will be voted on at the next partsession, the report by mr lehne on the simplification of the rules for companies. i have also maintained that the rules are not just a matter for the companies and the capital providers and the accountants who make their money from them, but also for employees and other groups. that is why we must not compromise the quality of the rules. i have made a plea there to at least apply the rules to companies which are de-listed and to off-balance-sheet activities. i hope you will support the iasb's move to take action in this area. i want to end with the warm plea that i also made there for the xbrl standard. you know that the scc in america is also going to make a decision one of these days to make it compulsory. i would like to ask you how you are going to deal with this in europe and encourage you to draw up a road map for europe in this area as well.
president, zimbabwe's president mugabe was once the hero of liberation. his actions led to the creation of a new state, zimbabwe, in the former southern rhodesia, after british colonial rule and a white apartheid regime that rebelled against that colonial authority, where the black majority of the population was democratically given the upper hand. as ruler, mugabe behaved in an unlikely moderate manner for years. he neglected the urgently needed redistribution of the landed estates. the only radical thing about him was his dislike of homosexuals. only when he was in danger of losing power did he remember his earlier promises of land reform. since then, he has completely disrupted the economy of his country through ill-considered measures. the redistribution of agricultural land did not take place in a planned and gradual manner, but became a matter of complete arbitrariness, with its most aggressive supporters appropriating the land. worse is his dealings with the opposition. this opposition has been constantly intimidated and attacked, but has managed to hold out well so far. in previous elections, there were suspicions that the results had been falsified. this time the opposition won the parliamentary elections, but the announced recount seems to be designed to deprive them of that victory. the results of the presidential election have been kept secret for a month, so that it remains unknown how big the defeat for mugabe was. in recent days he has declared with enthusiasm that nothing will ever change in his country. he can only achieve that purpose by violence and oppression. the import of a shipload of chinese weapons seems to be the way to do that. under these circumstances, it is reasonable for the outside world to interfere in this internal conflict. support for refugees, support for the opposition and pressure on the ruling party are indispensable tools to achieve what mugabe himself once wanted, namely political control by the majority of the population.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in iran and the situation in the middle east. freedom, democracy and human rights do not apply in that country. elections are held, but the candidates must be approved by the conservative clergy, so that opposers are excluded in advance. many iranians have fled the reign of terror in their country and without that flight, a large part of them would not be alive today. in europe, we must give these refugees space instead of sending them back or treating them like terrorists. at the same time, it is undeniable that a part of the iranian population supports the killing of homosexuals, discrimination against women and the oppression of ethnic minorities. that part of the horror of western decadence in their country at the time of the late 1970s drove out the pahlavi dynasty, which had turned iran into an extension of america and europe. democracy was not yet established, and opponents were repressed or exiled. the mistakes made by the west during that period have contributed greatly to the rise to power of the present reign of terror. if the domestic modernization of iran under prime minister mossadegh had been given a fair chance in the early 1950s, there would have been no breeding ground for the current rulers. in iran, there are movements for change, but they are mostly hindered. ms. khadijeh moghaddam was arrested on 8 april and charged with anti-state propaganda, actions against national security and misleading public opinion. she has since been released, but the severe restrictions on women continue. our solidarity must be on the side of the oppressed.
the former colonies of french west africa and french central africa were decolonised in the years 1958-60. this was not the result of a long struggle and a collective national consciousness that arose from it, but rather a means of preventing the emergence of liberation movements. it happened from the top instead of from the bottom. from being french overseas departments, they became first self-governing territories and then independent states. nevertheless, in these states, with the exception of guinea-conakry, french influence has always remained much greater than in other former colonies. in the great desert state of chad, france has maintained a military presence, and that has certainly influenced who is allowed to govern that country and who is not. this great influence from europe has not led to the development of european standards of democracy and human rights in these countries. the national borders and the states are not the result of internal movements which have shaped their own state, but only of a colonial past. this means that ethnic differences can lead to ethnic conflicts. in such countries, this leads to a constant struggle for power, for the question of who should be the first-class citizens and who the second-class citizens. the ethnic and geographical diversity is often insufficient or not even reflected in the composition of government. the problems which arise from this cannot, in the opinion of my group, be solved simply by stationing a new european military force there. such military power has always existed and has contributed to the present situation rather than preventing it. the solution does not begin with a stabilisation of the present situation, which is only in the interests of the present rulers, but with the creation of a space for change from below.
i would like to thank both the presidency and the commissioner for their replies. there is indeed incredible concern about the rising tensions in the area. i agree with the comments and the calls for restraint. but the question is: what good does it do? the council's conclusions of november 2007 were also a call for restraint. unfortunately, tensions have been building. mr. chairman, what now? deputy prime minister baramidze said: "help us, help us!"; the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the european union will do so. but what are we supposed to do? first of all, there is the mission. the georgians, but also the russians, must cooperate in mediation. the second point is the un peacekeeping mission. it cannot be that russia alone decides that russian soldiers are to be sent there. thirdly, mr president, we must reduce the pressure. i just saw in my office via computer the beautiful swearing-in ceremony of president medvedev. i heard president medvedev, the new president, very strongly say that he wants to preserve the sovereignty and independence of russia. his counterpart in georgia did the same. i would ask anyone here who would like to congratulate president medvedev today to call on him at the same time to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of georgian territory. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: with a new president in russia, there is also a new opportunity with a stronger call from our side to convince him of that. thank you very much.
i would like to join the previous speakers, but also the commissioner and the council representative, in expressing the concern we all share about the situation that has now arisen in the region, in the caucasus in particular, with regard to georgia and the problems surrounding south ossetia and abkhazia. we have been talking about frozen conflicts until recently, but now we are facing a situation where it may become a dormant conflict. we must all, of course, prevent these conflicts from becoming open. it is the task of the european union, the un and all those who can play a role in this area to de-escalate the situation. of course we must reject the steps taken by russia. they are steps towards formalization, towards a possible recognition of independence. at least that suggestion is being raised by the steps taken by russia. and there, of course, geostrategic interests play a big role. i can imagine that there is frustration in moscow over the recent nato summit, which agreed that georgia could join nato in due course, and of course there is also the necessary irritation over the reaction of most eu countries to the declaration of independence in kosovo. we believe that these matters must be kept absolutely separate from the situation in georgia, that agreements have been reached in the past in the osce on this subject and that efforts must be made, particularly in the un, to get the matter, the consultation and the dialogue, back on track. we are now seeing a kind of escalation on both sides, a rhetorical escalation, a game of chess indeed, as the commissioner says, but a chess game without winners, i fear. and that's not good for anybody. on the one hand, you have the reaction of the russians, who are increasing the number of so-called peacekeepers. on the other hand, georgia is creating problems in the negotiations of the world trade organization, where russia's membership is at stake. and i think that the nationalist undertones that you see on both sides of the debate need to be removed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i think the european union can play an important role in this, also in direct consultations with russia at the forthcoming eu-russia summit, an opportunity perhaps to give the new president a taste of what his country is planning to do about these frozen conflicts, not only in the caucasus, but also in transnistria; i would like to ask the president-in-office what his intentions are with regard to the agreements which, i believe, were made in 1999 within the osce on the situation in those seceded countries, republics, states, etc. finally - and i agree with all those who criticise the way russia interprets un statements - these peacekeepers are not, of course, peacekeepers; they are the peacekeepers of the united nations. they should be seen more as troops serving a military strategic interest of russia, but certainly not un objectives. new agreements must be reached on this and perhaps the european union can play a role in this. the european union must also be committed to the territorial integrity of georgia, respect for minorities and minority problems - hannes swoboda has already said a number of things about this. the people on the ground are in danger of being crushed between moscow and tbilisi; it is of course important to do something about the refugee problem. perhaps the european union can do the most by investing in confidence-building measures that can help both sides on the road to a new dialogue.
we are friends of georgia. and true friendship means support and help, and that is what europe must do when georgia's territorial integrity is at stake. but true friendship also means being critical when necessary. president, the georgian government is faced with a difficult task. the construction of democracy, based on european values, in a country with a very different history. the commissioner rightly points out that good progress has been made in the enp, although much remains to be done. a difficult task for the georgian government, now that its territorial integrity is at stake and being undermined by russia. europe must take a clear stand and assist the parties to the conflict. president saakashvili's proposals deserve a fair shot at being implemented. that'll solve more than gunfire. the mission of the presidency is a good one, because the time has passed for us to sit back and wait for things to get better. the council and the commission must show their resolve. the tension is particularly high because parliamentary elections are due to be held on 21 may. i will be part of the observation mission and we will be closely following the elections. these parliamentary elections are a litmus test for the saakashvili government. therein lies the responsibility to ensure that the elections are fair and democratic. that will be the platform in europe to come together and to ensure that the citizens of all of georgia, including abkhazia and south ossetia, can live in freedom and democracy; that's why georgia deserves our support. thank you, sir.
for the pse group we also commend commissioner verheugen for his efforts in the field of eu-us cooperation and the development and establishment of the transatlantic economic council, with the aim of strengthening economic cooperation, creating a single large common market, not only in the interests of the eu or the united states, but also to be able to deal with problems we face together, such as shaping globalisation and regulating matters that need to be regulated on a global scale, and sometimes deregulating where necessary. commissioner verheugen rightly says that political factors play a very important role in this and that the role of political leaders is also important. that's a point in itself. in america we are facing an election year, that is one, which is leading to uncertainties about the future course of that country. we don't know who the new president will be, although i do have a personal preference. we are dealing with a divergent economic development in that country. we're still doing pretty well. america has been hit by pessimism. overdevelopment of the economy, rising unemployment, major complaints about, for example, high energy prices, all of which lead to a certain uncertainty, which of course will also have its effect on the leading actors in the country. nevertheless, we need each other to carry out, as verheugen said, a broad agenda. it is not just about developing a common market, but also about our commitment to global problems relating to trade and trade policy, relating to our relations with the new economic powers which we have called the brics. that's what matters. it is also important to look at how we can jointly develop a trade agenda which also includes social and environmental aspects. these are some of the points which are of great importance to my group. i would like to mention a number of priorities for the short term, in addition to the development of this market, and i think that the food crisis should also be on the agenda, as well as secure and sustainable energy supplies - we are both mainly energy consumers and dependent on producing countries - and of course the stability of the financial markets. i think that in the end it is a question of preventing the emergence of a fortress europe and a fortress america in response to all kinds of new economic developments; we must try to act together in the world when it comes to the economic future of ourselves and of many other countries that depend on us. thank you, sir.
madam president, although i am aware of the risk of overburdening the agenda of the transatlantic economic council, i would still call for the insertion of the issue of data protection in the agenda, because data protection – contrary to what many people think – is very much an economic issue. it actually used to be the responsibility of dg internal market in the commission, but that has since changed. personal data has become big business, and it is a growing business. we are currently witnessing, for example, some multibillion mergers in the sector. think of google/double click, which we discussed back in january; the merger between microsoft and yahoo!, which has now been called off; and, shortly, reed elsevier and choicepoint. that indicates the importance of personal data. the business is also global in nature. businesses are increasingly confronted with different legal regimes across the world, or even within europe or within the united states – for example: rules on breach notification, data protection, profiling and behavioural advertising. businesses and citizens need global rules for more legal certainty and transparency. therefore we should start elaborating global standards. i think that the transatlantic economic council would be the appropriate platform for doing this and, therefore, i would like to hear whether commissioner verheugen agrees with me that this issue should be included in the agenda for the tec.
after tonight, it is unlikely that a woman will be elected president in the united states, but whoever becomes president, trade will continue to play an important role in the relationship with the united states. we are each other's largest trading partners and therefore good economic cooperation is of great importance. i therefore congratulate commissioner verheugen on his approach. we have high hopes for this transatlantic economic council, although we must realize that it will be a long-term investment. but this council must play an important role in harmonizing regulations, removing bureaucracy and barriers to trade. because it will make it easier for our companies to do business in the united states and our markets will be more closely connected. and, commissioner, please give priority to what erika mann so beautifully called 'those crazy measures', for which we do not have such a nice word in english. the "crazy measures" include the 100% container scan. it should be withdrawn, because it is a nonsensical measure which will have a very bad effect and will cost far too much. president. - we must also act together with the united states when it comes to our interests in the rest of the world. i would also like to mention the fight against unsafe toys from china and the production of particulate matter in asia. because when it comes to those particles, it's like moping with the faucet open. we're not really able to reduce the current. i would also like to call for special attention to be paid to the need to act together in the current financial crisis. the transatlantic economic council must play a positive role in this area too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we go up together, we can strengthen each other; we will also be working towards that.
i shall choose a slightly different approach from that which my colleague mr bushill-matthews has just taken. i do agree with him on a number of points, namely that through mergers, business relocations, restructuring - and all across national borders - in a globalising world there is an increasing need for better information and consultation. there are currently some 800, 820 european works councils representing some 145 million workers. i believe, and this is my intention, that in a social market economy the interests of workers, which can also ensure peace and stability in that labour market, must be able to function as well as possible. mr president, that is why i am so fond of the european works council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, if you go to the bargaining table, there must also be something to negotiate on the part of the employer. i fully endorse what we voted for in 2001 in the report by my colleague, mr winfried menrad. what did we say? we said: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european works council is properly represented in the european parliament. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the european works council is properly represented in the european parliament. i call on all parties to negotiate. if that is not the case, commissioner špidla, it is up to you to ensure that this new text is adopted this year. thank you very much.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - the president, madam commissioner, burma after the disaster, rice fields littered with corpses, homeless survivors, aid organizations are not allowed into the country. the gas exports of burma bring the country three billion dollars a year, but the regime now spends only five million dollars on emergency aid. a shocking tip for a cyclone the junta knew about without warning the population. burma is a major challenge for eu human rights policy. tougher sanctions are the only solution. strengthen visa restrictions, crack down on companies that support the regime, shut down the eu for all regime banking transactions. the council should have taken these steps last week. it didn't happen. commercial interests came first. this kind of critical analysis is completely absent from the eu human rights report 2007. but new sanctions against burma will have to wait until today. first, the eu must urge the asean countries to provide assistance. the member states themselves must also be prepared. the security council should send secretary-general ban ki moon to burma. the borders of burma must be opened.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others the report by mr ford shows how difficult the negotiations between the eu and asean are. this is not surprising, given the very heterogeneous nature of this region. the importance of european industry, for example in the field of market access, is great and calls for a faster timetable. the question is therefore whether the eu should continue with these multilateral negotiations or whether it is better to move to bilateral negotiations. this suggestion is already more or less contained in amendment no 5 by mr ford and mr mann. i therefore urge the commission to make every effort at multilateral level to ensure the successful conclusion of the doha round. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. this does not mean, of course, that i am against further regional integration in south-east asia. that is a matter of great importance. i am thinking here of the important role that asean and asean+3 can play in further integrating myanmar into the region. this country, which was so badly hit by hurricane nargis last weekend, is in dire need of help from the region. the asean+3 group, in particular, which includes neighbouring china, must make an active effort to persuade the junta to open its doors to the outside world, to better protect human rights and to give the opposition more room to manoeuvre. thank you, sir.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - well, mr. spidla has already said it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. sport does indeed have an important social function, for example in combating a problem such as racism. racism in society is reflected in racism in sport. i am very pleased with the attention in the white paper to eliminating racism and discrimination, both in professional and amateur sport. sport also has a lot of benefits for social inclusion, for example, or for the integration of migrants or reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the commission's recommendation to use existing eu funds towards the member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. and one last thing: it is important to improve the professional qualities of sports managers too, and that is why we support a licensing system at european level.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - i would like to thank the members for the very pleasant cooperation we have had on this report; i think it took some time to come up with this proposal. i regret that in some cases it does not go far enough. i think it is very important to create guidelines which sports organisations can adhere to. i am thinking, for example, of state aid - how far can one go - to achieve a uniform approach throughout europe to state aid, particularly in relation to professional sports organisations. i also think that there is too little explicit distinction between the specific characteristics of sport and the economic activities which are often associated with sport, because i believe that these economic activities - even if they are for the protection of sport - should never be exempted from the convention. fortunately, that is not in this report either. that is why i wholeheartedly support it. i think it is good that the sports organisations have been able to engage in a much more intensive dialogue on this subject than before, and that is a great step forward. thank you, sir.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. - i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and, on behalf of the libe committee, in particular for the attention he has paid to civil liberties, justice and home affairs, also in the field of sport. i would mention in particular the strengthening of crossborder cooperation by police forces based on the exchange of information and, of course, with respect for data protection. secondly, the promotion of licensing systems, which, in our view, must also explicitly take account of the protection of minors and the fight against discrimination, racism and violence. and thirdly - as has already been said - the fight against human trafficking. i am thinking in particular of the trafficking of children and the possible exploitation of young talents, often from third countries, but also of the trafficking of women, in the case of forced prostitution at major sporting events. in the run-up to the new convention, the time has come, mr president, to translate this important report into concrete action. i would therefore like to conclude by calling on the european commission - and i know that i am sounding very much like the club song of feyenoord 'no words, but deeds' - to put the white paper and the excellent words of mr mavrommatis into action. to speak with fc groningen: "let's have another round of applause", commissioner.
i should like to begin by thanking mr mavrommatis for his excellent report and for the good cooperation. i have just spoken as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, and i am now speaking as shadow rapporteur for the press. i would like to stress three points, namely the importance of clear guidelines, the importance of lotteries and home grown players. first of all, i would like to look at the specificity of sport and sporting organisations which call for clear guidelines where european legislation applies. i think we should give an answer to that, rather than the case-by-case approach that has been used so far. second, the home-grown players. we must ensure that professional players from a young age are well protected and trained in a stable environment. that is why we support the so-called home-grown players rule, so that young people can train at the club and get their first contract at the same club. naturally, this will ensure that many national players can play in a club without us discriminating on the basis of nationality, which is not the intention. we must respect freedom of movement, freedom of players, and that is an important principle for us. that is why we do not agree with the fifa rule of the so-called six plus five rule. lastly, the lotteries. state lotteries have an important function. you could say that it is a service of general interest because it supports a lot of social organizations, including the sports structure. the liberalization of the market has major implications, so we must first look at the consequences and what good alternatives are available before taking any action.
in writing. − we have voted against amendment 4, because it states ‘is of the opinion that any possible solution should not lead to distortion of competition’. in the light of the issue, this underlines that economic interests are more important than public health concerns. we find this reasoning unacceptable. we believe when it comes to matters of food safety the european union should adhere to the precautionary principle.
in writing. - the problem of lobbyists will not be solved by half-measures. only full transparency and mandatory registration can limit the growing influence of industry lobbyists. that is very necessary, because all too often we see colleagues table amendments which are taken literally from a lobbyist. but politicians should be influenced first and foremost by their electorate, their constituency and their common sense, not by an army of professional lobbyists. i therefore call on the european commission to come up with a package of far more far-reaching measures.
in writing. − eu policy is strongly shaped by the interests of large companies, which seek to strengthen their international competitiveness by cutting costs in the areas of environment, labour, safety and consumer protection. it is not surprising that these companies do this, but if they do it should be obvious to everyone. this gives the trade union movement, the environmental movement and the consumer organizations the opportunity to do something about it. for years, i have been calling for the strictest possible transparency regime for lobbyists, including in questions to the european commission. i note that the hard version has not been adopted today. the ten amendments tabled by the united left and the green group to this effect did not obtain a majority. these included a single common register of all lobbyists granted access to eu institutions, openness about lobbyists' purpose and funding, early introduction in 2009, disclosure of unethical lobbying behaviour, clarification of special advisers to the european commission and the prevention of paid lobbying by civil servants during their leave of absence. despite the rejection of this better option, today's decision is a step forward. on this basis, the two representatives of the socialist party in the netherlands voted in favour.
in writing. − we recognise that sport has a special role in society as an instrument of social inclusion and integration, and as a promoter of local democracy. we acknowledge the considerable importance of sport in health terms as a preventive measure for obesity and chronic conditions. we fully support the notion of strengthening the role of women in sport; the importance of protecting athletes of all ages during and after their sports career; the promotion of sports in society, including physical activities in the school curriculum; the need for redistributive measures in sports financing; and the citizens right to information and wide access to broadcasts of sports events. however, we do not support the enhanced role of eu-level policy in sport. we therefore cannot support the steps taken to further increase eu policy in this area. specifically, we cannot support the idea of setting up a european police force for sport.
on behalf of the pse group how long will it be before at least one in ten assistants to members of parliament is working here without any social protection in a jungle of contracts of all kinds that are totally unclear and that arouse suspicion of fraud? every time the socialist group tries to give members' assistants a decent contract with all the normal guarantees of social security, the ppe-de group tries to prevent the coming into being of such a statute for assistants. the word 'statutes' is a real taboo in the ppe-de group. this time the word 'statutes' should be replaced by 'regulations'. and that's not a simple pun. this parliament should set an example in terms of working conditions, but it is falling hopelessly short of what has long been the standard within the eu. without a coherent statute, our employees will never get the protection to which they are simply entitled. this one point, the statute for assistants, is therefore important and the amendment to abolish it would be a stain on the otherwise excellent report by mr lewandowski. i agree with his comments and with those of reimer böge. the budget remains within its limits despite the approach of greater responsibilities for this parliament with the new treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. clearness in this respect must be the explicit condition for releasing the amounts we intend to set aside for this purpose.
i am of the opinion, as are many others, that there should be a statute for members' assistants as soon as possible. it could save us a lot of trouble in the future. something about the buildings. when we bought some buildings in strasbourg a few years ago, the presence or absence of asbestos played a major role. they did an expert assessment and said, there is asbestos in the buildings - that's the case with all the buildings that were built at that time - but it's absolutely not dangerous. we bought the buildings on that basis. there was no suggestion that we should remove the asbestos soon. i therefore think that the administration is on the wrong track in asking for this now, because if it is to be done, it must be done at the expense of the strasbourg municipality. until we have that certainty, i do not think we should start removing asbestos from these buildings at the expense of this parliament. we must first get clarity from the strasbourg municipality, because it must pay.
tobacco kills about half a million european citizens every year. even among non-smokers, 19,000 deaths each year are caused by secondhand smoke. how do i know that? that is the message of the television spots that the european union itself has broadcast in all 27 member states as part of a major anti-smoking campaign. and we have all put 18 million euros into this. but that is a pittance compared with the subsidies the european union gives to tobacco growers every year. this year alone, brussels is spending 320 million euros on this. three years ago, it was almost 1 billion euros. is it not very strange that we are trying to combat smoking and at the same time financing tobacco production with european taxpayers' money? furthermore, the continuation of the financing runs counter to the whole idea behind the reforms of our agricultural policy, namely that we must get rid of production subsidies. president, i fully support the european commission's proposal to continue supporting the tobacco fund in 2008 and 2009, but this fund should not be used as an excuse to continue tobacco subsidies in 2013. although i have great respect for the arguments of my colleagues, i believe that public health must come first in this case.
it is difficult to say which is more absurd, that the european union subsidizes tobacco cultivation or that europe uses a small part of those subsidies for a fund which is supposed to discourage tobacco smoking. these kinds of totally hypocritical measures are precisely the reason why the eu has so little credibility among its citizens. the argument that the eu produces relatively little tobacco is not relevant. in fact, each pack still contains one eu-subsidised cigarette. the cigarette is of such inferior quality that we in europe do not even want to smoke it and we dump it elsewhere. the tobacco subsidy should not be extended, as this parliament wants. the commission has also proposed that part of the grants should not be used for shameful anti-smoking campaigns, as the commission wants. i have tobacco from those subsidies, they just have to be abolished immediately.
european farmers who grow tobacco should not receive a penny from the eu for it. of course, tobacco subsidies have been a steady source of income for farmers for years, a kind of social policy that did not deserve the name. but taxpayers' money should not be spent on products that cause illness. there is therefore only one choice for these subsidies: to be abolished. what is proposed in the berlato report is an absurd attempt to continue tobacco subsidies at least until 2012. that must not happen, and there is another reason for that. it is a petty injustice from the point of view of the developing countries to subsidize european tobacco. this is unfair competition with poor farmers and it goes against the development policy of the european union, a prime example of how one policy area can intersect with another. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but be in solidarity and let the subsidies for tobacco go up in smoke, in the name of public health and in the name of the coherence of european policy for the development of the poorest countries in the world. that is solidarity.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. if there are very special circumstances in europe, we must also come up with very special measures. in this case, it is a truly tailor-made innovation, made possible by the regional development fund. here we have really reached the hearts of the people, here we have reached the kitchen table and here we have been able to work in social organizations where trust is so important. confidence in that environment which, indeed, with the great tensions that have been in northern ireland, was so much needed. in this respect i fully agree with commissioner hübner that this is a good example of a case where these kinds of instruments, these kinds of resources have to be used, as in similar situations, for example in cyprus. mr nicholson, the shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group, missed his plane, which is why i am speaking first. i would like to say that as coordinator i wholeheartedly support the peace iii programme, particularly the role of the people and - as i have already said - the crossborder aspects. the fact that it involves people in the rest of ireland and the infrastructure is very important.
the position of these outermost regions is special. it is indeed these remote islands that are at issue and i think mrs sudre has struck a good balance by highlighting this specific character and by tailoring the instruments to it. as a dutch member of parliament, i would like to report on developments within the kingdom of the netherlands. we have three of those small islands - sawa, st. maarten and bonaire - which will indeed be transferred to that other status and thus also be included in the outermost regions. however, i do not expect it to happen so quickly that the people of the country will be able to vote before the 2009 elections. under the new lisbon treaty we can take them on more quickly. we do not need to amend the treaty to do that. perhaps mrs hübner can indicate whether the commission is fully prepared to include these three small islands, with a combined population of 19,000, in our whole.
mr president, in 2004, this european commission got the green light of the european parliament only upon the solemn promise to be the champion of fundamental rights. but paying lip-service to equality is not good enough. eu citizens must get the legal instruments to defend their rights in court. now, the european commission is frantically looking for excuses to avoid a general ban on discrimination, such as that more study is needed – as if we cannot all see that there is discrimination all around – or that there is no consensus in the council – well, that never stopped the european commission from pushing its proposals in other areas such as energy policy. and let us not forget that discrimination is already forbidden on the basis of the treaties, but if we do not legislate the courts will do it for us. so i expect the european commission to take its own responsibility and stand for the rights of european citizens, because if the horizontal directive must fail, then let it fail in council and not in the commission. (applause)
the fight against discrimination, whether on the grounds of religion, sex or disability, is one of the pillars of the european union. that policy is laid down in all our treaties and also in legislation. the european union has shown great success in combating direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex. we can now look at the situation in terms of directives and conventions and find that, despite the most advanced legislative process in the world, the policy is not working properly. you can choose two lines. the opposition line is: we are coming up with a very broad new trajectory and can solve the problems with it. i don't think that's possible this way. the evidence was provided by the 2000 legislation which has led to infringement proceedings against ten member states, where member states, including the netherlands, have been targeted for the unclear functioning of certain provisions in the legislation on equal treatment. so new broad legislation will not help either. it's all about the nice words. we should be doing much more and much more to develop attitudes and action programmes and to ensure that there is no longer any discrimination, even indirect discrimination. we must ensure that implementation is better and then we will also have to find a solution for those problems which can be clearly stated, namely those of people with disabilities. i therefore wholeheartedly support the arguments of mrs bauer and of some of the members of our group, and i hope that we will now put into practice the excellent legislative framework we have. thank you very much.
mr president, we have been speaking about countries which have not adequately implemented or transposed the anti-discrimination directive but there is one country which has not implemented it at all and therefore i would propose the following oral amendment: ‘calls on the czech government to effectively transpose the employment directive and for the czech parliament to overrule the veto of the czech president’.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, within the gue/ngl group there exists great tolerance for minority positions. there are cases where those minorities like to show to the plenary of this parliament that their viewpoint differs from the large majority inside our group. such was recently the case in the voting on my report concerning the relationship between macedonia and the european union. we gave the limited speaking time for our group to one of our greek members, who declared that the european union cannot admit any new member, as it would be better to abolish the union itself. possibly this remark created the misunderstanding that my group did not follow my proposals to speed up the negotiations with this candidate member state. however, this position was only the viewpoint of the communist party of greece, not of our group as a whole, which supported my proposals, as did the vast majority of this parliament. in the last debate this morning we again had such a situation. on the piecyk report on an integrated maritime policy, the two speakers from our group were the greek member pafilis and the portuguese member guerreiro. getting the opportunity to speak on this issue was very important for the parties they represent here. in their national debate, those two parties prefer to use the piecyk report as a symbol for everything that is wrong about the working conditions of seamen and port workers and also for everything that can be linked with nato intentions for the military use of the sea. the majority of our group, including the german and netherlands delegations, take the view that the piecyk report has nothing to do with those issues. we twice supported the defeat of the ports directive but we are not against maritime policy in general. we support mr piecyk’s proposals, which are focused on useful elements like the environment, the protection of coastal regions, education and the quality of labour.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution on the tobacco fund proposes to extend agricultural subsidies on tobacco. we vote against in protest at the whole system of tobacco subsidies. for the eu to financially support the growth of tobacco is ridiculous, to use part of this money to support anti-smoking campaigns hypocritical. all agricultural subsidies for tobacco should be abolished immediately. anti-smoking campaigns are useful but can easily be financed in other ways.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's internal market. this choice is even more important in crossborder long-distance transport by bus and lorry than in many other industries. in bus transport, rules have been in place since april 2007 that allow the bus to stop for one day every six days during a group holiday to protect the driver from fatigue. we strongly agree with the objective of this measure. we are aware, however, that the way in which they are implemented is not only irritating to businessmen and customers but also to the drivers themselves. i have previously urged that this be improved by agreements with the trade union movement, the european transport workers' federation. it is better that drivers are guaranteed to rest at home, rather than being forced to do so on the road, amidst surprised and dissatisfied customers. the agreement on this is good, but we reject all attempts to unilaterally abolish this protection. the road transport of goods is a problem because the rules governing the taking of goods on return journeys from abroad vary from country to country. this means that the return journey is often unnecessarily long and largely empty. it is too early to adopt the same system for the whole of europe as is now reasonably functioning between the netherlands, belgium and luxembourg. this is only possible between countries with the same level of income and social conditions. we have nothing against crossborder solutions such as those which ensure that all drivers are paid a fair wage, adequate reimbursement of expenses and adequate safety measures. on the other hand, we object to the fact that in such a system the current large wage differentials between eu member states are being abused to reduce labour costs. then everyone who was paid well will lose their job and only people will be working there based on the current working conditions of, say, poland or romania. my group has therefore tabled amendments nos 45 and 46 to the report on freight transport, to make the opening of the cabotage market conditional on growth on a level playing field and an evaluation in 2012.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others i would like to thank mr grosch and mrs ţicău for their work and make three further comments. my first comment concerns the amendment of the list of infringements in mrs ţicău's proposal which may lead to the withdrawal of a carrier's licence. this list of infringements is an essential part of the package and constitutes a possible restriction of the internal market. it is therefore preferable to amend the list of infringements by the co-decision procedure rather than the comitology procedure. i have therefore tabled an amendment which proposes that amendment and which i hope you will all support. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of a proper control of the list of infringements. the proposals we are discussing this afternoon are aimed at improving the internal market. it is important, however, that a genuine level playing field be created. the member states will also have to enforce the rules laid down in this regulation, and i therefore ask the european commission to ensure that the member states apply this regulation correctly. and my third point is that there are indeed member states which are trying to reduce cabotage to a minimum. this is totally contrary to the principles of the internal market and indirectly pollutes the environment. i will therefore certainly support the amendment which seeks to lift the restrictions on cabotage from 2012.
for years, there has been a lot of excitement about the cabotage phenomenon. the existing rules would be too vague temporarily because of the term used. it is a good excuse for several member states to further isolate their own market. to make this clear once and for all, the commission launched a new regulation a year ago. and as my colleague mr sterckx has just said, i expected a lot from this. however, the commission has proposed, remarkably, that the cabotage possibilities should be strictly limited. instead of more freedom, the present commission proposal would place more restrictions on the carriers. this is remarkable, because the existing 1993 rules were considered at the time, including by the european commission, as an intermediate step towards full freedom. of course we need a european approach. the sector should not have to face any more national pressure to minimise the cabotage possibilities. however, the commission proposal as such is not in line with the principles and objectives of the internal market, nor with those of the lisbon strategy, or, frankly, not at all. the arguments in favour of road safety, the environment and the reduction of administrative burdens mentioned in the european commission's argument are not relevant here. the free market is simply necessary for the most efficient planning possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. as dirk sterckx has just made very clear, the alde group is therefore committed to a completely free market, preferably as from 1 january 2012. member states should also be free to agree on previously unlimited cabotage arrangements, if they consider it desirable. it should also be clear, above all, that authorisations granted before the entry into force of the proposed regulation remain valid in any event. we reject the 'one more study and then we will see' approach. the setting up of committees, the running of study no 250 in a row, leads to almost nothing, at least apart from a lot of hassle, associated costs and other messes, and we all know that all too well. the sector and, yes, the consumer, too, benefit from a free market as soon as possible. and finally, i would like to say one more thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no place for that in this regulation.
madam president, i am deeply disappointed to find president barroso not sufficiently engaged in dealing with roma issues. in this parliamentary term we have adopted two joint resolutions on roma and a report on roma women, and we have had a number of meetings with the ec. meanwhile anti-gypsyism has increased and, apparently, the public acceptance of racism too. it is high time for action. this case in italy with the roma is a clear example of government-sponsored racism. the violence against the roma scapegoats in italy reminds me of the anti-jewish and anti-romany pogroms of the 1930s. berlusconi’s political tactics look like the ones of milošević’s ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia. i want to call on your solidarity to exert pressure on the ec and the council for an eu roma policy. i am convinced that the eu presidency has heard this debate and will examine the roma issue more seriously during the next eu summit.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. there are no social norms here. in bangladesh alone, 200 people have died in recent years as a result of work on the wrecking of seagoing vessels. many children are used in the demolition, since they can easily get into the small spaces. they must remove the toxic substances without protection. the substances then end up in the environment, with disastrous consequences for fisheries and tourism. unfortunately, many european ships also end up on the shores of india, pakistan and bangladesh in this way. the high steel prices, low wages, poor safety standards and lack of environmental measures are apparently financially attractive. the committee on the environment makes it clear that these practices are ethically unacceptable and that the dehumanizing and environmentally devastating situations surrounding the dismantling of ships must no longer continue. the efforts of an individual member state or the european union alone will not be sufficient. whatever we all do in the years ahead, a global solution to the problem of the wrecking yard remains urgently needed. unfortunately, we have to admit that not much has been achieved at the global level. this is precisely why the european commission has published a green paper. the main objective we want to achieve is the protection of the environment and public health without shifting the burden of the problems to other countries. we cannot wait any longer to take action, as many seagoing vessels now flying the european flag will have to be decommissioned in the coming years. the committee on the environment has put forward the following specific proposals. in order to avoid circumventing the regulation on shipments of waste, there should be guidelines for determining when a ship is a ship and when it is waste. the waste shipment regulation should be better implemented and enforced through stricter controls and supervision by port authorities in the member states, with the understanding that port states should have the power to declare a ship to be derelict. a list should be drawn up of the seagoing vessels which are likely to be scrapped within a few years. the european union needs to develop a competitive and clean ship-breaking industry, for example in shipyards that are no longer in use. the development aid should transfer know-how and technology to south asian scrapyards to meet safety and environmental standards. moreover, the demolition of seagoing vessels in bangladesh is a highly lucrative business, generating enough money to quickly bring about acceptable demolition conditions. i would like to stress that it remains necessary to continue working on two levels. first of all, we must take responsibility for our own european fleet and work towards a global agreement. we cannot concentrate on just one of these two at the moment. i have received a number of responses from the shipping industry that this green paper would impede or delay the process of reaching an imo convention. i do not agree with that, but i think that we as the european union are anticipating this imo convention and are better prepared to implement it in due course. i am also convinced that we as the european union want to get rid of the serious situation in south asia as soon as possible. i am glad to see that there is a great deal of agreement on this subject in the committee on the environment and the two joint committees. well, that's a good start. i assume that the house can support this line. it has also been shown that member states can already take action. last thursday, the otopan left the netherlands for turkey after authorities had the ship cleaned, removing all the hazardous waste. this is possible under the waste shipment regulation. an export licence has previously been refused because those conditions were not met. on the same thursday, i was visited by a delegation from the ngo for the responsible shipbreaking in south-east asia. it should be clear that these people have been fighting for years for responsible ship-breaking in their country and we cannot leave them in the cold. a lawyer from bangladesh, people from india, they have been working for this for years, and i think we should support them in this and adopt this resolution. i hope to hear from commissioner dimas what he intends to do in the near future to bring about responsible ship-breaking in those countries and to provide the means for that too.
i would like to thank mr blokland for his excellent report. i think he has very well outlined the enormous problems caused by the demolition of european ships in poor countries. the consequences, both in terms of working conditions and the environment, are often dramatic and the eu must not shirk its responsibility in this regard. mr blokland has chosen, among other things, to take the path of stricter international legislation. i am certainly in favour of such legislation, but i fear that it will take far too long before it produces concrete results. europe must act now and cannot wait for the rest of the world. for shipwrecks, proper burial arrangements should be made. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. and any vessels containing asbestos or other dangerous substances should be scrapped on european territory anyway. we can't allow our mess to cause great misery anywhere in the world. the moment a ship is no longer fit for use, we must stop thinking of it as a ship. it is then waste and should be treated as such. we simply cannot allow other hazardous waste to leave the eu without guarantees as to how it will be treated, and there is no reason not to do the same with scrap vessels. in addition, as in the whole of european waste policy, the emphasis should be on processing within the union itself. finally, a policy of naming and shaming shipowners and member states who have their ships demolished in an environmentally and humanly friendly way would be a good first step which we could actually start tomorrow. the responsibility for the proper demolition of a ship should always lie with the owner and it is then up to the member states to check that this is done in a proper manner.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for our high-level debate this evening. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to mention three points which you have raised. firstly, you call on the member states and the commission to implement the waste shipment regulation more effectively and, in particular, you call on the commission to draw up a list of vessels likely to be sent to the smelters in the coming years. we will consider the possibility of creating such a list, and also a list, as mrs grossetête has suggested, of those establishments which have higher standards. we also agree that the waste shipment regulation should be applied more strictly to end-of-life ships. the commission intends to provide the necessary guidance and i expect the authorities of the member states to ensure that there are no cases of ships being allowed to leave european union ports despite clear indications that they are going to be scrapped in developing countries. moreover, since most european ships will be broken up and become waste outside community waters, it is necessary to establish a binding international regime. secondly, we will consider the question of developing a competitive ship-breaking and pre-cleaning industry in the european union without jeopardizing the viability of south asian ship-breaking. the european shipyards are not able to compete with the south asian smelters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. what we can achieve, on the other hand, is that warships and other public ships, as well as those receiving state aid, are only dismantled in environmentally sound facilities in europe or in oecd countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not dismantled, and that the community's fishing fleet is not dismantled. finally, i see that you support the proposal to set up a fund for ship dismantling and that you call on the commission to investigate the possibility of imposing compulsory insurance to ensure environmentally sound recycling. the commission will examine the possibilities for this. the shipping industry tells us that the new international convention on ship recycling, combined with market forces, will solve the problem of ship dismantling and we certainly do not want to create unnecessary administrative and financial burdens. the commission will continue to monitor developments closely and will not hesitate to take regulatory action if the market is still unable to provide a solution to this problem. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
- i'm the reporter. - first of all, i would like to thank all the speakers for their words of appreciation, especially commissioner dimas. i would like to make a few comments. i think it's extremely important that there be a demolition fund. the scrapping fund should be filled by contributions from shipowners, not by public subsidies, of course. i don't think that's necessary at all. just as the old car scrappage fund eventually starts to run out of steam, so will this case. i am glad that the commissioner is thinking along those lines. we must act very quickly and therefore it may be a good idea to conclude a convention with the european shipowners as soon as possible so that they will at least have their ships demolished responsibly. i know that the shipping company p&o nedlloyd mask has had some 20 ships demolished in china in a responsible manner, in particular by ensuring that the facilities were provided to enable this to be done. i think we should also point out to ship owners their social responsibility, that they really cannot do this anymore, namely sell a ship for a lot of money. then it is sold ten more times before it is finally demolished. we will have to deal with this in a very different way and i think the shipowners are well placed to do so, especially in view of all the negative publicity that has been given to this in recent years. dismantling is also often carried out in contravention of local legislation and against the wishes of ministries of social affairs and the environment. i have also been told that in bangladesh it is not the national legislation that is problematic but the enforcement of that national legislation. so i think there are enough possibilities in themselves, but they are not being used. mr matsakis asked me what i had against his amendment. the point is that this amendment suggests that environmental degradation in ship dismantling should no longer continue in developing countries. but of course they cannot continue anywhere, even if, for example, eastern europe is being dismantled in an irresponsible way. and it still happens from time to time. it is therefore unnecessary to focus this exclusively on the developing countries, especially if it is later stated that it cannot be done in places such as the far east. i therefore think that this addition is unnecessary. i regret that i cannot support mrs liotard's amendments. they're too protectionist. mr liberadzki has raised an important problem, namely that there are also ships stored elsewhere, which are rusting and are not being used. we must also deal with this. i would like to thank everyone once again and i would like to end it here.
the chairman of the council. - mr president, mr karl-heinz florenz, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. today, there is clear evidence that major changes in the climate system are man-made and that these changes are already having a negative impact on nature and human society. it is also certain that unless we act quickly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions substantially, global temperatures will continue to rise during this century, leading to widespread damage and disruption. the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental forum on climate change, adopted in spain in november 2007, is the most comprehensive and credible scientific assessment of climate change to date. the report says that the warming of the climate system is undeniable, that the increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations is very likely the main contributor to the increase in global average temperature over the past 50 years. the ipcc assessment reports published since 1990 show that the science of climate change and its consequences has advanced considerably in recent years. this can be attributed to a number of factors, including the growing evidence of perceived climate change, the hard work of scientists and better communication of scientific knowledge. as stated in the florence interim report, which we believe provides some very important fresh formulations on the problems described, what we know today is sufficient to start immediately designing and implementing policies that will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. this is why, as we all know, european heads of state or government decided last march to send a strong message to the international community by adopting commitments to reduce emissions. the european union is determined to deliver on these commitments through a comprehensive climate and energy policy. it will then pay particular attention to energy efficiency, renewable energy, biofuels, carbon capture and storage and the transition to a low-carbon economy in general. i would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the recent decisions of the european council. as mentioned, the european union made a strong and ambitious commitment to climate and energy policy last year. now, in 2008, it is time to act. the bali climate change conference last december was a major breakthrough in the international negotiation process involving both developed and developing countries. this process is outlined in the bali action plan. the european union is determined to continue to maintain its leading international role in the field of climate change and energy and to maintain the necessary momentum in the negotiations under the united nations framework convention, in particular at the next session, to be held in poznań this year. the aim is to ensure that an ambitious, global and comprehensive agreement on climate change for the period after 2012 is reached in copenhagen in 2009, in line with the european union's objective of limiting global temperature rise to a maximum of two degrees. the european union will also make a major contribution to this by delivering on the objectives set at the 2007 spring european council. and the key challenge is to make the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy in a way that is compatible with the european union's sustainable development, competitiveness, security of energy supply, security of supply and sound and resilient public finances.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss today the interim report of the interim committee on climate change, which was presented by mr florenz, whom i congratulate on his excellent work. the report confirms the european parliament's support for an ambitious european community policy to combat climate change and i take this opportunity, mr president, to thank all the members of the european parliament for their continued support and such a significant contribution to promoting our climate policy and to raising awareness among the general public and to informing members from other countries. i also want to underline, mr president, the important role you have played in promoting the european union's climate change policy, and i am sure that you and the members of the european parliament will continue to do so with the same zeal so that we can use these two years - because there are less than two years left - to achieve an agreement in copenhagen at the end of 2009 to deal effectively with this great threat to the planet. both within the european union, where the debate on the climate and energy package is intensifying, and in the international negotiations, we need to mobilise all our forces and work together as best we can to build on the lead the european union has gained in the run-up to the copenhagen conference in december 2009. the important decisions taken in bali were driven by a combination of two factors: europe's global leadership in the fight against climate change; and the fact that the eu is a global leader in the fight against climate change. on the other hand, the scientific findings of the ipcc, the intergovernmental panel on climate change, have led many of the world's leaders to admit that there is indeed an urgent need for action. thanks to this series of scientific reports, citizens and policy-makers, including members of parliament in various countries, are now better aware of the scale of the challenge and the serious risks we face if we do not act to stop climate change. i think we can almost all agree that there is indeed scientific evidence of the need for urgent and bold action to tackle climate change, which the interim report before us summarises. this report reflects the scientific message delivered by the ipcc and other sources in 2007 more clearly than ever. the scientific debate over whether climate change is caused by human activities has dragged on for decades because of skeptics and has prevented decisive action. but it's closed now. it does not mean that all questions have been answered or that we have understood every detail. but we now know enough to conclude that taking ambitious action quickly is in our interest in terms of energy security and in terms of economic, environmental and social interests. not only can we not afford to wait, but even worse, the time we have available is very limited. if we limit the increase in global temperature to two degrees celsius - a limit beyond which we lose control of limiting or reversing environmental impacts - greenhouse gas emissions could peak within the next ten to fifteen years at the most. in the long run, to have a good chance of not exceeding two degrees celsius, global emissions in 2050 would have to be reduced by 50% compared to the 1990 level. to do this requires a radical change in the way we produce and use energy. what is needed is a global transition to a low-carbon economy, small but significant changes in many aspects of our daily lives. we need a green revolution, no more, no less! it has become clear from the ipcc reports that even with ambitious measures to reduce emissions, some serious impacts of climate change will be rather unavoidable. the international community must therefore be prepared to deal with them and, for this, it needs support, particularly in the most vulnerable of the developing countries, which will face the greatest problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we know that we have a short time, given that the objective and the top priority is to reach an agreement in copenhagen in 2009. the signing of a substantive and comprehensive agreement, meeting the ambitious objectives imposed by scientific findings, is a major challenge. it will take a lot of effort to convince our international partners to sign the ambitious agreement we have set ourselves as our goal. the european union must therefore continue to stick to its strategy, which has proved successful so far. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. one of the challenges in this direction will be to ensure that developed countries participate in the effort to reduce emissions to levels corresponding to the two degrees celsius target. this is a reduction of their emissions by 25%-40% by 2020 compared to 1990. i would like to be absolutely clear on this point. we call on the united states to rise to the occasion and to become a factor of progress, not an obstacle to progress. as you have noticed during your recent visit to the united states, the discussions there have started to move in the right direction, but it is obvious that we still expect a lot from them. beyond developed countries, it is also necessary to work towards ambitious emission reduction commitments from developing countries, especially the most advanced developing countries. there are many opportunities for reducing emissions, opportunities that have significant added benefits, both for energy security and human health and for development in general. measures to this end should be provided for and supported in the expected 2009 agreement. i think that things are moving in the right direction here too. there is a growing awareness of the need to take action to tackle climate change. at the same time, the additional benefits are beginning to be realised, whether in terms of energy security, human health or economic development, which will not only not be jeopardised but rather enhanced. the recent visit of commission representatives to china confirmed the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they have already begun to take action and intend to continue their efforts. we must support them, both bilaterally and multilaterally. we will have many opportunities in the coming months and in the coming year to promote our message. one of these will be the g8 and g8 sim5 summits, where the japanese presidency has turned its attention to climate change. another will be the un-led initiative for the world's major economies, as well as the various bilateral partnerships of the european union on climate change. we will use all these opportunities to convince our partners that urgent action is needed and that sound and sustainable policies on energy and climate change must be put in place. in this endeavour we should systematically highlight the scientific findings on which we rely and remind people of the consequences of inaction or inadequate measures. as we know, the common vision is to be negotiated in the context of the bali road map. it is very important that this be done on the basis of the valid scientific advice available to us. we must insist that the negotiations be conducted in the light of scientific findings. i am convinced that, together with the commission, you have an equally important role to play in conveying this crucial message to our partners, our citizens and their parliamentary representatives.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr karl-heinz florenz, for the thorough interim report before us today. it is good that all the relevant scientific information on climate change has been gathered in this report. that can then serve as a good stepping stone to the final report of the interim committee on climate change. i have nothing more to add to that in substance and that is why i have not tabled any further amendments. much is already known about climate change, but much more research is needed because many parameters are still unknown. this report makes active use of these additional studies. i cannot support the amendments tabled by mr březina and others, in so far as they are admissible. i shall follow the rapporteur's position on the amendments by mr doyle and others. finally, i would like to wish mr florenz every success in the preparation of the final report.
i would like to thank my colleague, karl-heinz florenz. he delivered an excellent report. the debate on climate change is very emotional, and rightly so. but today we must take a sober approach. we will be working intensively on climate change in the coming months and there are very ambitious measures on the agenda. it is of the utmost importance that europe shows its credibility before copenhagen and reaches agreement on the climate package. the only way to do that is to have a common basis, and that basis is science. it is to karl-heinz florenz's credit that he has expressed the scientific consensus. our policy is based on the findings of the ipcc. the ipcc is a group of thousands of scientists working together. the fact that the earth is warming is a fact, and that this warming is caused in part by human action is also a fact. to limit climate change, we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% to 80% by 2050. colleagues, that is not an easy task. the stakes are high. of course, there is a lot of profit and employment to be made from clean production and it is also good that we are ending our dependence on oil and entering the world of renewable energy in this way. but the transition to a low-carbon economy is not easy. so there are two things that are important. first of all: science must be the basis for policy. and that does not mean, mr pieper, that the consensus within the ipcc is a stone-cold truth. we can expect the ipcc to be open to criticism and to the well-founded arguments of the sceptics, because that helps science to progress and that is why our group fully supports paragraph 10. secondly, we need continued public support. in order to enable public support for firm action, we are asking for a translation of the scientific principles into a publicly accessible brochure so that everyone can learn about the challenges we face. this is how we can face these challenges together. i hope that mr florenz's report will provide us with a basis on which to move forward together and to put in place a sound policy by 2009.
the rapporteur. - mr president, since the last report on turkey, there have been a number of positive developments in that country. i am thinking of the adoption of the law on foundations or, more recently, the first amendment to article 301, which should lead to further reforms necessary to guarantee full freedom of expression. but it is also clear that turkey presents a mixed picture and that much more needs to be done to fulfil the agreements with europe, but also to fulfil the promises made to its own people. the report now before us is balanced. i hope that some of the horses being ridden will not make it, because that will keep the report balanced. i have mentioned all the problems in the report, mr president, and there are three important messages. firstly, we are concerned about the consequences of the case before the court against the akp. we expect the constitutional court to respect the principles of the rule of law, european standards and the guidelines of the venice commission on the prohibition of parties. we are pleased that democracy triumphed in 2007 over attempts by the military to disrupt the political process. but we are also concerned that there are still forces at work trying to destabilize the country. it is clear that the modernization of this country and the reforms are now needed. prime minister erdoğan has promised that 2008 will be the year of reforms and we will be happy to keep him. the government must now use the strong parliamentary majority to resolutely pursue reforms, reforms that are crucial to turkey's transformation into a modern and prosperous democracy based on a secular state and a pluralistic society. the reform is first and foremost in the best interests of the turkish citizen himself. a third point. the constitutional process is the opportunity to draw up a new civil constitution, the heart of which is the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. only in this way can a system of checks and balances be established to guarantee democracy, the rule of law, social cohesion and the separation of religion and state. looking at recent figures, it is clear that the maintenance of the separation of church and state is causing tensions in turkish society. as many as 72% of highly educated turks are concerned about the secular nature of turkey, 60% of citizens in all major cities and almost 50% of other turkish citizens. and, mr president, that unrest has been seized upon by the judiciary, the prosecutors who take the space to sideline a parliamentary majority and work with a high degree of independence. the judiciary should be independent but also impartial in a state governed by the rule of law. the new constitution is the only way for the turkish government to reform the country, to enshrine the separation of church and state, and the rule of law, and to win new confidence from the citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, health and the environment. i believe that this means that all political parties, ethnic and religious minorities and the social partners must reach a consensus on this modernisation. the modernisation must ensure that the individual rights of citizens, the civil liberties, are brought into line with the european convention for the protection of human rights. we must continue the negotiations between the eu and turkey with respect, but also without hypocrisy, so that we dare to be open and honest with each other. i very much regret that my colleague - i am referring to joost lagendijk - is being attacked in this way when he is openly and honestly pointing out where mistakes are being made and also asking for the cooperation of all political parties for the sake of the reform process. president. - i have the floor. there is still a lot to be done in terms of the position of the various religious minorities in turkey, the position of the kurdish population and other minorities, the socioeconomic development of the regions, the strengthening of the position of women, the dialogue between the turkish government and the social partners, with particular attention to the trade union movement, which is often under pressure, constructive cooperation in solving the cyprus problem and good neighbourliness in the region. in short, please honor the agreements that have been made. i would like to stress once again, mr president, that i believe that only a society governed by respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, based on democracy, the rule of law and a social market economy, can develop into a peaceful, stable and prosperous society.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - turkey has recently adopted important social and labour legislation. one important goal: the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the integration of women into the labour market. because economic participation is badly needed to empower women. needless to say, women's rights are human rights. it is important for women to be able to claim fundamental rights such as sexual and reproductive rights and not to be subject to vague criteria such as "against public morals". this is also essential for gay organisations. in turkey, instruments are badly needed to monitor this and to introduce gender mainstreaming. i therefore call for a committee on women's rights in the turkish parliament with full legislative powers. next year, turkey will hold local elections. nationally, there was a doubling of the number of female parliamentarians. but more is needed, because at the local level, participation is still below 1%, a huge challenge to make a fair representation of women in politics a reality.
i am very pleased to see that the commissioner has been able to make a statement on this matter, and i hope that he will be able to give us a clear answer. we wouldn't understand turkey well. we would not really know what is going on in turkey. i have to admit, sometimes i do not understand some things in turkey. i do not understand why many people in turkey do not have a problem with the fact that the ruling party, which won 47% in the last elections, is in danger of being banned by the constitutional court. what i also do not understand is that the council of europe's recommendations on banning political parties are so easily abandoned because it is clear that the case against the akp does not meet those criteria in any way. what i also do not understand is that it is so easy to ignore the fact that by banning the akp and the dtp, some 90% of the votes in the south-east are declared invalid, with all the consequences of that. what i do not understand is that there has been so much commotion in turkey about the fact that the commissioner and i have criticised the fact that we believe this is a political case which, if it leads to the banning of the ruling party, will indeed have serious consequences. i think it is our duty to say that and we will continue to do so. but there's more i don't understand. what i also do not understand is why it was impossible for the authorities to allow the trade unions to demonstrate peacefully on 1 may in istanbul, including in taksim square, which has been such a symbolic place since 1977. what i do not understand, however, is why it was impossible for the authorities to distinguish between rioters and trade unions who want to exercise their democratic rights. and what i also don't understand is why there was such a need for excessive violence against peaceful protesters and innocent bystanders. i would like to conclude by expressing the hope that this parliament will continue, as in this report, to encourage reforms, but also to criticise the government and the opposition if they do not take place, in what i would describe as a clear, unambiguous way, with respect for each other's views, but without taboos. i am convinced that if that happens, we in turkey and the european union will eventually understand each other even better.
i also commend the rapporteur and the way in which we have drawn up this report. the report clearly indicates the direction in which parliament wants to work, namely negotiating membership of the european union and nothing else. in turkey, 2008 has been announced as the year of reforms. we support this ambition, of course, but we will wait to see how internal developments in turkey develop. my colleague swoboda has said enough about that. if that fails, we will be faced with a turkey that cannot really act. speaking of reforms, i would like to draw attention to article 301 of the criminal code, which is used to restrict freedom of expression in turkey in a number of areas. the government has announced its intention to amend this article. we believe that this is a good step, but what we would like most and what we believe is the best solution is that this article should finally be withdrawn, as well as other restrictive provisions, so that an end is put to a practice which unfortunately still exists, namely that these articles are being misused to restrict freedom of expression. secondly, i would like to say, following on from my colleague lagendijk, that we too were very indignant at the way in which the police intervened during the may day demonstration in istanbul. you will realise that for us social democrats, for whom 1 may is an important day, this was very disturbing and we hope that this will never happen again and we call on the authorities to ensure that this will never happen again. finally, a word on the kurdish question. we want the political debate in turkey to be genuine, to be a search for a political solution, to be a search for solutions by means of decentralization, but also, for example, by promoting the use of kurdish in general. i think this is an important point to stress today. finally, i would like to draw attention to a point which we have raised on several occasions, namely support for the initiative of the spanish prime minister zapatero and his turkish counterpart erdoğan, for what they call the alliance of civilizations. we hope that today parliament will finally support our amendments on this.
the republic of turkey disqualifies itself from membership of the european union. the ill-treatment of its tiny christian minority, perhaps 100,000 citizens or just one hundredth of one percent of the total population, leaves me no other conclusion. and, by the way, the copenhagen criteria leave no other choice for the council, the commission and parliament. the outright persecution of syrian orthodox and other christians in the southeast of turkey, tur abdin, for years and days now, is a direct indictment of the turkish state. does a country whose citizens attend christian services and are regularly questioned by the police or the secret service belong in the european union? interrogations which are also accompanied by threats in the personal or professional sphere or even, in some cases, by torture. turkish conditions, turkish self-disqualification. the point is, however, how fair is the european union to itself in this matter?
- i'm the reporter. - i thank the colleagues who have worked so well together. i repeat that we are only unanimous in our recognition of the need for reform in turkey. we can all send a positive signal by voting in favour of the report by a large majority. we are thus helping turkey to reform and ensure that individual freedoms are guaranteed and the rule of law is enshrined. all of this is necessary for a modern society in which men and women are doing well. i would like to ask my colleagues once again to put aside all political games when voting on the amendments and to ensure that there is an absolute majority for the adoption of this report on turkey in the plenary.
- i'm the reporter. - we want to remove the word 'neighbour', because we want the ombudsman to work with all european ombudsmen and ombudswomen.
on behalf of the pse group i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner, also on behalf of my group, who has clearly indicated today that he is doing what he can under very difficult circumstances. he himself spoke of a dialogue between deaf people. we must note that the situation in burma is taking a bizarre turn. almost three weeks after the cyclone swept through the country, the regime still barely allows outside help. the authorities themselves seem to be rather passive. the country has been closed to aid workers, experts and media for weeks. the fact that the junta allowed a referendum to take place a week and a half ago, which was supposed to strengthen its own position of power, is almost kafkaesque. the official death toll is estimated by some sources to be as high as 80,000. tens of thousands are still missing and the number of displaced persons is over two million. it's getting to be pol pot-like proportions. at least we think we do. because there's just as little information coming out of the country as there is aid coming in. refusing to allow aid is murder, as former un coordinator jan egeland said earlier this week. the burmese government is making a mockery of its responsibility to protect, the responsibility to protect. the contrast with china, which was tragically hit by a massive earthquake last week, is striking. the enormous devastation was not hidden and was seen on tv everywhere, including in china itself, and the chinese government issued an international appeal for help. the burmese government can't afford much more damage to its image. that's pretty much where the bottom is. china could do much more to persuade the burmese government to accept international aid. the same applies to russia and india, which should increase pressure on the junta either in the un or in asean. i agree with mr nassauer's comments on this. last monday, some agreement was reached in the asean context on international aid to burma. all aid will be coordinated by asean. one step forward. better late than never. but direct aid from western countries remains out of the question. there's a donor conference being held next week. i call on europe to contribute generously and generously, but only if we can also guarantee that our contribution will be well spent and that journalists will also be allowed access to the country, so that we too can really get a picture of the situation there.
how many times have we been here to talk about burma? yet several times a year we gather here and it is becoming a hopeless affair. but conditions in burma have again worsened than on any previous occasion when we have discussed it. 1.4 million victims have not yet received assistance. thirty thousand children suffer from acute malnutrition. hundreds of thousands of homeless people are at risk of cholera, pneumonia and other infectious diseases. i understand that this morning as many as eight foreign doctors from doctors without borders were allowed into the disaster area. it's too little, too late. i would like to support mr nassauer's appeal to asean. they must now finally show their backbone, because it is clear that the junta cares more for the survival of its own regime through the referendum which does not deserve that name - mr wiersma calls it 'kafkaesque' - than for the survival of its own people. the arrival of foreigners could undermine the survival of the military regime, the generals believe. but it 's clear: doctors without borders, oxfam, the british, french and american ships are bringing relief supplies, not regime change, as much as i might like to. but we can't convince the junta of that. so we have to look for alternatives. i believe that the best alternative is to be found in the security council. europe and the united states must push for a change of agenda in the situation in burma. all the member states of the united nations have subscribed to the following two principles: the assumption of responsibility to protect nationals and, if a country is no longer able or willing to do so, the right to international intervention in disaster situations. the united nations must act. i understand the problems and i am proud of commissioner michel, who, instead of sitting down and shaking hands and convening official working parties, simply went there under the motto 'no words, but deeds'. i like that. i also think that the support promised by the european union is exemplary. i also think that french minister kouchner is right when he says that the junta is guilty of a crime against humanity. i wonder why we do not hear the other 26 european member states as loudly. mr president, aid must come quickly to the burmese people, with or without the junta's approval. denying necessary support is a crime against humanity. i would like to see the european union take the initiative to have the united nations and the security council refer this case to the public prosecutor at the international criminal court in the hague. enough is enough, i've had it. i would say: drag the junta to the international criminal court. that's what we're for. as things stand, listen to those behind bars and not the dissidents in burma!
two weeks after the disaster, some of the burmese population has finally received some rice, beans and medicine, but this aid has not yet reached a quarter of all the victims and is criminally late because of the junta. the un world food program says it has been able to provide rice and beans to 212,000 of the 750,000 people who are most in need. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council. i thank the commission for all the positive efforts in burma and also from brussels. but millions of people are left to starve, to thirst and to sickness. that is a form of torture, that is murder and a total breach of the duty of protection. it's a practice that comes close to genocide. the military is therefore responsible for crimes against humanity. that is a matter for our group and tomorrow for this parliament before the international criminal court. the security council must launch an investigation into the crimes of this regime. what is the commission's view on this? as rapporteur on burma, i ask myself: when is the limit of respect for the sovereignty of a country reached? the border was closer to iraq. when will respect for fundamental human rights become as inviolable for the same international community? the credibility of human rights is now being undermined worldwide by the refusal, especially by neighbouring countries, to address the burmese regime and by the unwillingness to come to the aid of the population if necessary without the permission of the colonels. sovereignty does not give you the right to strangle your own people. hence the request to the council of the european union and in particular to the united kingdom as the current president of the security council to put the situation in burma back on the agenda of the security council. china and russia must realize that the situation there is even more criminal, even more serious than it was shortly after the cyclone.
with unprecedented openness, the chinese mass media have reported on the terrible consequences of the massive earthquake that struck sichuan province over a week ago. at home, this official openness has led to an unprecedented solidarity with the victims. the harmonious society came into view. tens of thousands of volunteers have signed up rescue teams are pouring into the disaster area from all provinces. material aid in china is at an all-time high. in short, official openness pays off. the european institutions must therefore continue to encourage the chinese authorities to adopt this unprecedented approach. the critical question already raised in china as to why so many school buildings collapsed certainly fits into this context. china's openness to the outside world is also on the rise. beijing accepted the japanese offer to send a rescue team. taiwan has now pledged 42 million euros to help the victims of the earthquake. i sincerely hope that this compassion from across the street will lead to the necessary normalization of china-taiwan relations. i can warmly join with the colleagues who have expressed their deep sympathy with the unspeakable suffering of the chinese people and i am particularly grateful to mr sterckx for signing the register of mourning on behalf of us all at the chinese representation in brussels. i can relate to that.
first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the many victims of the natural disaster that occurred on 12 may in sichuan province. fortunately, the chinese authorities acted quickly after the disaster. i am also pleased with the european union's response. i therefore want to support the european institutions, the commission and the council, in the approach they have taken so far. china, after first rejecting foreign aid, has opened its borders. the chinese authorities themselves have indicated that they could use all the support to overcome this major disaster. japanese, south korean and russian rescue teams are already in the affected area. this, and the fact that the neighbouring countries of singapore and taiwan are also providing aid, i find very positive. political relations with neighbouring countries are not always as good as they should be, and this can improve relations. the disaster has received a lot of attention in the national and international media. i'm glad the press is being allowed access to the affected area and the opportunity to write freely to inform the rest of the country and the world. transparency is important to get a good picture of the disaster, but also to get the right help on the spot. this will increase the involvement of the rest of the population. free press and good governance usually go hand in hand. a free press allows for timely detection of policy errors and policy adjustment. the construction and supervision of these by the government should also be highlighted. this can be used as a basis for future construction projects. it can also be used to make recommendations for better governance and civil service organisation. prevention and preparedness for natural disasters are among the primary tasks of government. in many european countries too, this has only been well organized in recent years. i would therefore ask the european commission and the council to offer china any assistance they may need in training the administration and civil service in the preparation of crisis and disaster management plans.
the chairman of the council. - i think it is very important that the european parliament has decided to hold this debate today on the subject of the natural disaster in china. first of all, to send a message to china, on the one hand, of the european union's sympathy and, as the honourable member mrs grabowska said, a message of solidarity from the european union to china and its people. the difference is also apparent in the tone of the discussion under this item and the discussion under the item immediately before it. and part of the reason for this is, of course, the chinese leadership, which we can truly say responded to this terrible disaster quickly and effectively, committed a large, substantial part of its national resources, appointed or made the prime minister personally the relief coordinator. to manage the problems successfully, good coordination is certainly needed and this has clearly been established. the media also regularly informed the public, both national and international, of developments, and foreign journalists were also given access to the affected areas, as well as some foreign experts, according to our information, including those from japan. so i think we can take comfort in the fact that the chinese authorities are well organized in dealing with this terrible disaster and in providing aid to their own people, and above all, they are also willing to accept foreign aid, including ours. and i assure you that the council will remain available to provide any assistance that may be necessary.
member of the commission. - madam president, very briefly, i will of course take up your comments and i want to reply to them by saying that we are of course still prepared to go beyond the aid we have already committed and which is actually based on an analysis of needs. furthermore, i believe that everyone welcomes china's response and the way in which the authorities have allowed access and transparency. i am thinking in particular of access for the press. i should also like to mention an idea expressed by mrs flautre, namely the proposal to make international experts available to assess collateral damage and risks, particularly in nuclear infrastructure. i think it would be interesting to pass that message on. there is obviously no obligation, but i think it would be useful to have a discussion on this with the chinese authorities.
author. − madam president, in december 2007 the un general assembly accepted by an overwhelming majority a resolution that urged investigations into the health effects of uranium weapons on civilians and military personnel. we congratulate germany, ireland and italy as the only nato countries that supported the un resolution. the reason for that support may be the fact that many of their soldiers returned with fatal diseases and/or later had children with serious malformations. therefore we appeal to other eu countries to follow their example and submit health reports in line with the un request. du (depleted uranium) was used in the balkans, iraq and afghanistan. du is waste, and is an extremely cheap material for making arms. the estimated global stocks are 1.3 million tonnes. far less than 1 microgram inside the body can be fatal. apart from the radiation, du is a chemical toxic compound. nobody informs the troops, or the populations of the countries where du weapons are used. the latest findings of the world health organisation’s experts concerning the harmful effects of du have been censored. we urge the eu to inform its citizens and the populations of targeted countries. we call on the commission and council to make sure that an international treaty will be established as soon as possible. in order to gain a detailed insight into the matter, it is high time for the commission and council to provide access to all existing reports and initiate the further investigations which parliament has been urging since 2001. meanwhile we reiterate our call to ban du on the basis of the precautionary principle.
europe is rightly investing heavily in maintaining and strengthening competitiveness and we are maintaining our market share in essential sectors, but, as the commissioner has just said, we are only in the first wave of globalisation. it's really important to be on the edge of your seat. then it's about that new combination of research and development and making and selling innovative products in a way that is actually profitable. this report by romana jordan cizelj does indeed put the right emphasis. we must do away with bureaucracy, we must indeed talk about greater efficiency in legislation and regulation. the action programme provides the impetus for this. but still, one cri de coeur from me. it is still difficult for industrial enterprises to find a way through the european instruments themselves. the cip and the seventh framework programme are central, top-down instruments to be decided in brussels. the structural funds are decentralised. each with its own front door, its own criteria, you name it. my message is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then i can see the effect in the regions. i see this clustering in successful sectors happening at all levels. in my region, we have set up a one-stop shop for these various instruments last month, and that is clear. i'm going round. there is no need for fragmentation and red tape. we must know what we want and this also increases the visibility for businesses and citizens that is so necessary. they should also say: europe has made the right choice and has done the right thing. that's a long way from being a good point.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur, the commission for its communication and the rapporteur for his report. the great challenge will be to translate the ambitions set out in the communication and in our report into concrete measures. i would like to mention a few points which we think should be dealt with. in the fight against animal diseases we naturally share the commission's view: better to fight than to heal. but if an animal disease does occur, vaccination - and you have said this - must indeed be central to its control. we want to avoid situations like those in my member state, where 285 000 animals had to be slaughtered in 2001 for 26 cases of scd. since there is no distinction between products from vaccinated and non-vaccinated animals, the marketing of such products should be guaranteed, both inside and outside the european union. i would urge the european commission to take care of this, because it has gone wrong in the past. of course, supermarkets, processors and consumers must also take responsibility for this. we also call on the commission to clarify the role of the european union, the member states and the sector itself in financing the fight against animal diseases, especially as this subject is indeed part of the debate on the health check of the common agricultural policy. the fact remains that member states deal with this financing in very different ways, and this could have consequences, including for competitiveness. so in this we ask for more clarity. of course, exporting countries must meet the same requirements as our european producers, for example in the area of the identification and control of animal diseases. finally, i would like to hear from the european commission when it intends to present its analysis of the current transport regulations and how we can limit as much as possible the possible spread of animal diseases in this area.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the enthusiasm with which he has carried out his work. i think that with increasing globalisation we must take more account of the outbreaks of infectious animal diseases in the future. people are traveling more, taking products they're not supposed to, and that can cause outbreaks. everyone has been talking about it: we need better border security, because prevention is better than cure. i always notice, when i come to the united states or australia for example, that the border controls are considerably stricter there than in europe. i wonder why the european union does not have a similar system to that of the united states, for example, where everyone is asked to fill in whether or not they are taking animal products with them. then we can control it properly. what should happen in the event of outbreaks of contagious animal diseases? i think everyone is convinced by now: the mass slaughter that used to happen is no longer acceptable. we must vaccinate all animals and then the products of the animals that have been vaccinated must be able to be sold on the european market and beyond. that's the problem. i am not impressed by the efforts of the commission to convince supermarkets, consumer organizations and so on that products from vaccinated animals are as good as products from unvaccinated animals. it is still necessary that, if vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease, the products of those animals should be labelled so that a consumer knows that. this seems to me to be completely unnecessary. so the commission is taking an active stance. we are still used to the fact that, again this year, there is still a huge surplus in the agricultural budget every year. so far we have been able to pay for all outbreaks of contagious animal diseases from that agricultural budget. in the future, that might well be different. the new countries are being phased in and the margin in the agricultural budget is getting smaller and smaller. still, there's gonna be a price to pay in the event of an outbreak. european law says that it must be done. i therefore think that as soon as possible - i already received a pilot project in the budget for this in 2004 - there should be a scheme of european animal insurance, animal health funds by country or at european level, and so on. all the plans are in place and the commission must get down to work as soon as possible. the last point is the transport of animals. i am not one of those who say 'if you transport the animal for so many hours, it is by definition good'. it may be that two hours of transport is worse than, say, nine hours of transport. it is the conditions under which the animal is transported that the commission will have to take into account, not only the length of time but also the circumstances.
i would almost say how strange it is that the commission has a strategy for animal health with an emphasis on prevention. that's really great. but what a disappointment that animal welfare is only a by-product of the commission's strategy. a well-known song in the netherlands begins with the words "an animal is more than a piece of meat and a human being is more than a consumer". unfortunately, the commission does not really sing along to this song. it still sees too many animals primarily as producers of meat, skin, hair, eggs, milk and manure. the economic view is still far too dominant and therefore, in my view, too one-sided. fortunately, and i thank the rapporteur for that, his report is already much better, if only because, unlike the commission's proposal, it does contain genuine welfare points. i'll name two that i think are very important. recognition that intensive livestock farming seriously increases the risks of outbreaks and epidemics. the enormous size of the european bio-industry is not the question of whether or not a new animal disease will occur, but when. it is rightly pointed out that animal transport poses a high risk of spreading animal diseases. we must therefore avoid, reduce and improve transport of animals as much as possible, also because of the enormous suffering they cause. this report is not as strong on animal welfare as i would like, but any improvement is an improvement and i will therefore support it wholeheartedly.
'prevention is better than cure' is the motto of the european commission. i couldn't agree more. that is why i support her strategy. the principles of cooperation and communication appeal to me. i also think it is good to work on simplifying and clarifying legislation. i would like to draw particular attention to vaccination. i'm totally behind that. the mass preventive killing of healthy animals should be avoided as far as possible. dutch farmers have experienced in the past how such measures can intervene. i would stress the call in the wojciechowski report to take measures in this connection to avoid the creation of trade barriers. uncertainty about the marketing possibilities of products from vaccinated animals must be avoided. good public communication on the safety of these products is therefore of great importance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the vaccination programmes are properly implemented. animal health and welfare are important issues for european citizens, and rightly so. i would therefore urge that this be raised in the context of the wto. a good strategy cannot be undermined by imports from countries which do not have the same animal health and welfare obligations as the european union. this is damaging consumer confidence and is bad for the support of farmers and other direct stakeholders. these remarks enable me to support the strategy proposed and i thank the rapporteur very much for his report.
development money can and should be better spent. that, mr president, is what we can conclude from the rapporteur's extremely balanced report. my compliments. the report comes at the right time. europe seems to be getting tired of spending on development. this trend is extremely worrying and we should not underestimate it. even countries that have always been known for their international solidarity, such as the netherlands, are voting for a reduction in development spending. the only answer is to provide transparent, efficient and results-oriented work. the european union can still make a major contribution to this, particularly through the three cs: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commissioner has also made many references to this and is working on it. we can also do more to increase the number of projects and programmes. when something goes wrong, an extra program isn't always the best solution. we'd better do a few things right than half of everything. president. - the european union is the largest donor. so we have a great responsibility. the new treaty will also increase our capacity for greater cohesion, complementary policies and improved coordination. the effectiveness of our aid is crucial, not only to justify development spending at home, but above all to combat poverty in developing countries. in the end, it's not the intention that counts, it's the result. in the context of the 2009 development cooperation budget, i will make proposals to improve the results of evaluation. we must focus more on results than on vague indicators. i would like to ask commissioner michel the following question. commissioner fischer boel said that the commission would like to use some of the unspent money from the 2008 european budget to support countries affected by the sharp rise in food prices, i.e. the food crisis. i'd like to hear the commissioner's reaction. can the commissioner also indicate how these additional resources will be used?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. since then, the situation has not improved but worsened. the compromise reached between the muslim north and the non-muslim south after a long civil war is under pressure. the cooperation in a transitional government and the preparation of the 2011 referendum on southern independence are under pressure because the borders of these areas have not been definitively defined. control of the oil-rich middle ground is now proving to be a reason for renewed violence. the peace settlement does not apply to western darfur either, since arab nomads and military forces have largely driven the black population to neighbouring chad. this is not a struggle between followers of islam and christians, but a struggle between nomads and settled agricultural populations for control of the dry, poorly productive soil. population growth and the expansion of the desert are causing these people to lose their traditional livelihoods and turn against each other. the government is partly responsible for the expulsion of the non-arab population. from darfur, fighting is now being pushed back to the capital, khartoum. the question of whether this vast area of highly diverse peoples should become independent as one state was raised when the present state of sudan was still known as anglo-egyptian sudan. a united state would be the state of the arab populations in the north, east and centre. the black muslim population in the west and the black christian and animist population in the south would be hard put on an equal footing. these then much less developed areas were far from the sea and received little international attention. in the end, no one took them into account and we are now seeing the results of colonial shortsightedness. the state is responsible for many crimes, but at the same time it is largely an instrument of one of the warring parties. that makes it difficult for him to cooperate in criminal measures and of course we are trying to keep the prospect of that open in this resolution, but under the present circumstances there is little reason for optimism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resulting problems are much more difficult to solve in burundi than in other african countries. it is difficult to draw a geographical boundary between areas which are typically the home of different groups of people. it's more like the caste system as it was traditionally in india. even before the german and belgian colonization, there was a hutu majority and a tutsi minority in burundi and rwanda. the tutsi, who also differed in outward appearance from the hutu, were the rulers. the hutus were their subordinates. in the days of european colonization, there were attempts to change this, but they were not aimed at the equality and equal rights of the hutu. the main issue was the balance between the two groups of the population in favour of power for the german or belgian administration. even after independence, these old contradictions have never been resolved in a lasting way. a massive campaign by the hutu majority to exterminate the minority tutsi who are a nuisance to them, as in the northern neighbour rwanda, has spared burundi. but that can also be explained by the less far-reaching emancipation of the hutu. when we speak in the resolution about 14 years of civil war, peace negotiations, the fnl opposition movement, the disarmament of the rebels and the new fighting that broke out on 17 april, we must be aware of that history and the unresolved problems. the main thrust of the resolution is that the violence must stop and that agreement must be reached. i agree with that, but i see little reason for optimism on that point. the resolution rightly calls for european support for democratic governance, education and health care. we can do something about it.
president. - i have a few comments on the security strategy in the report by my colleague mr kuhne. he has worked on this, of course, with the full support of my group, and we think the result is very good. however, i would also like to make a few remarks to the attention of the high representative. this safety strategy, which is in place and which was developed in 2003, is a major innovation. the core of it, of course, remains intact. what we are talking about now is adjustments to a changed international agenda. effective multilateralism is an important principle. the combination of civil and military aspects is of enormous importance. modern threat analysis is also important. there are many positive examples of how the european union, under the leadership of mr solana, has dealt with this in recent years. it's basically the same approach, but it's working with a broader agenda. everyone here is talking about not just talking about terrorism, about classic security issues, but also looking at how issues related to energy security and climate threat are relevant to our security agenda. that's the broad agenda. i'd like to make a point of keeping to the tight schedule. it is not just the security of states that is at stake, but also the security of people. i welcome the fact that mr kuhne has tried to initiate that debate in this house, just as we have had the whole debate in the un on the 'responsibility to protect'. it also involves individuals. we must look at how this can be incorporated in our concept, and i am therefore sorry that the epp does not want to be part of that thinking. when we talk about human security, we do not mean automatic intervention in every situation where there may be a threat to human security, but we want to take better account of this important element. it is also important that the european union, thanks to the treaty of lisbon - and let us hope and pray that the irish will vote in favour of it on 12 june, and we are assuming that they will - will be able to work with a broad agenda, because the new high representative, who must be called that because of my own country, will also be vice-president of the european commission and will therefore be able to coordinate that broad agenda well. finally, a word about the united states. there's an election coming up, and we don't know who the two candidates are going to be. in any case, it is clear that whoever it is - and i hope, of course, that it is obama - it will be better to work together on a number of security issues. i am referring in particular to the point of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. mccain has made some interesting statements about that. perhaps it is time to come up with initiatives again at the end of the year, with new agreements on, for example, the multilateralisation of the fuel cycle. i hope the high representative will make a commitment to this.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, we thank the minister and the commissioner for their introduction. i share commissioner verheugen's conclusion that the atmosphere is positive, better than it was a few years ago. we expect further improvement with the coming of a new government early next year. i think both candidates want change, a greater investment by the united states in international cooperation and multilateral institutions. this too offers the prospect of further improving relations between the european union and the united states. i am not going to say that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. there are a number of issues that will remain on the agenda. i shall not speak about economic cooperation. commissioner verheugen has said something about this and we had a lengthy debate on it a few weeks ago. the question of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is one which i would like to raise again, as in the previous debate. it's time for a new initiative. i think that america should make a gesture by signing the nuclear test ban treaty, for example, but there are new possibilities when it comes to making agreements on the multilateralisation of the fuel cycle. i welcome statements already made by presidential candidate mccain about the withdrawal of tactical nuclear weapons from europe, a signal that he is taking that agenda seriously. the second point is the question of the missile defence system. my colleague rouček will say a few words about this. that remains an important point for us. we believe that this cannot be settled unilaterally in bilateral negotiations with a number of nato members. it is a european problem. it touches on the security situation in europe. it should at least have been discussed multilaterally within the european bodies responsible for this. i share the criticism of the lack of agreement so far on visas and the visa waiver system. we believe, of course, that all eu member states - and certainly all schengen countries - should be fully included in the programme. i hope that the commission, now that it can negotiate on its own, will make progress on this point. one final point. we remain unsatisfied with the american response to our complaints about the cia's practices, when it comes to extraordinary renditions and the continued existence of guantánamo. the fact that this must be brought to an end remains an important item on the agenda of the joint debate.
mr president, commissioner verheugen has just made an appeal to the european parliament to use its contacts with congress on the issue of the 100% screening of containers. very well, i think we are happy to oblige; but then, in return, i think this parliament would like to be more closely involved in matters such as, for example, the framework for transatlantic data protection, because for the last year and a half that has been treated by civil servants behind closed doors, as if it were a mere technical matter rather than one relating to our civil liberties and our fundamental rights. this is not a matter for diplomats. it is time that the commission and the council brought this to the european parliament. another matter concerns something that was announced the other day by the united states authorities – the electronic travel authorisation scheme. i would like to hear whether the council and the commission intend to raise this at the summit with the us. i get the impression that, by now, we have a patchwork of security measures that affect travellers – the electronic travel authorisation, pnr, api, biometric passports, fingerprints, entry-exit systems, automatic targeting system, visa, visa waiver – and the eu is just blindly copying all this. it is time that, instead, we started talking about a coherent, effective and proportional framework of security measures. in this context, i would like to know whether the commission and the council intend to raise the following issues with the us authorities. they have announced that – i believe as of august – they will require air and vessel carriers to collect 10 fingerprints and facial scans of all travellers and to submit this information to the department of homeland security within 24 hours. i will submit a parliamentary question on this, and i would like to know whether the council and the commission agree with me that carriers should not be carrying out law enforcement and security tasks, and whether they intend to intervene. finally, with regard to the visa waiver, i would like to highlight a specific issue. we have asked this a number of times and never got an answer: do you intend to raise the issue of the unacceptable travel ban to the united states for hiv patients?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. exact figures are lacking, but rough estimates suggest that every year hundreds of thousands of women and girls are trafficked by criminal gangs and then forced into prostitution in our member states. this is a problem of human dignity and the approach of the european union and the member states is unfortunately hardly effective. major events, such as major football championships, are known to have a sucking effect on criminal gangs engaged in these dehumanizing practices. that is why, on the occasion of international women's day on 8 march 2006, the committee on women's rights and gender equality launched a campaign to raise public awareness of the need to prevent and combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution during the 2006 fifa world cup. this red card campaign against forced prostitution was a great success, not only to raise awareness among the public, the supporters, but also to raise awareness in society that trafficking in women and forced prostitution must be actively combated. however, the results of the approach taken by the european commission and most member states are still disappointing. that is why we want to bring the issue back into the spotlight and make it clear to the public at euro 2008 this month and to society as a whole that this kind of violence against women and girls is unacceptable. in 2005, the commission and the council adopted a comprehensive action plan on the exchange of best practices, standards and procedures in preventing and combating trafficking in women. it is important that the member states also start implementing this action plan. that is also one of the questions we are asking. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women and girls in the labour market, and to extend it to include women and girls in the labour market. the commission can therefore answer the following questions. has the action plan on trafficking in women for sexual exploitation been implemented and what are the results and how effective has it been? what specific measures have member states taken to combat trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation? to what extent have member states correctly transposed and implemented directive 204/81/ec and what steps has the commission taken if this has not been the case? is the study on the relationship between prostitution legislation and the extent of trafficking in women and girls for sexual exploitation, which the committee on women's rights and gender equality has been requesting since january 2006, already available? will the commission state whether it intends to encourage member states to establish and further develop crossborder police cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution? if so, how? how can it support the red card action against forced prostitution by the committee on women's rights and gender equality? is the commissioner also prepared to send a letter to the governments of austria and switzerland, asking them to combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution during the forthcoming euro 2008 football championship and to support our red card campaign? mr president, it is well known that major football championships bring a great deal of joy and pleasure to the public and to the supporters, but this is a problem with a dark side, which must also be considered and not just in words, because the words of a famous dutch football song are 'no words but deeds'. i hope the commissioner will also be committed to this.
president, during the 2006 world championships, attention was also drawn to a helpline for victims of trafficking in women and forced prostitution. in turkey, for example, a helpline has been in operation for some years where women can report cases of trafficking in women. the european parliament already called in 2006 for the creation of such a helpline, which would be able to speak to victims of trafficking in human beings in several languages and provide them with assistance. meanwhile, two years later, there is still no such helpline. now, i was present two weeks ago when commissioner kuneva launched a helpline for consumers who were duped during euro 2008. what a great initiative to have a single phone number. so it can be. but why help consumers but not victims of trafficking in women? this brand-new consumer line shows how quickly action can be taken and how little effort it can take. now is the time to combine these initiatives and provide the victims of trafficking in women with a means of calling for help. in the words of barack obama: "we can do it, yes we can".
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are properly applied. our group greatly appreciates the efforts of commissioner verheugen to put an end to unnecessary bureaucracy. we must do everything we can to help small and mediumsized businesses. i have started with his proposals on food hygiene and have made enquiries in the netherlands. my colleagues have done the same in their countries. what about the bakers, the butchers and the corner shop across europe? we had already heard from sweden about the problem of the cake slices in the back of the church. from the netherlands, there were complaints about the rules that theatres and cinemas must follow. in both countries, however, the hygiene laws did not appear to be the cause. but other messages came in. from small shops in the uk who had made a lot of effort over the last two years to apply the haccp principles and were proud that they had succeeded in all of them. is the european parliament now going to say that all this is unnecessary? which brings us to the next thing. in the previous mandate we worked hard to reform the general food law. the reason was the lack of food security and a number of major food scandals. the essence of food law is that the responsibility for food safety lies with the producer. the government has a supervisory role. this division of roles is broken when companies are given exemptions based on a risk analysis. that is a step backwards. it is also an unnecessary step, because it is now also clear that implementation is going very well in most member states. the small businesses in the european member states are already well organized and operate with practical, workable hygiene codes. there are two things we must not forget. firstly, the food hygiene legislation we are going to amend today is replacing a whole bunch of rules. in 2004 too, parliament, and certainly the pse group, made a strong effort to combat unnecessary bureaucracy. the present rules already allow small firms to benefit from flexibility. a second point is that a review is already planned for 2009. if there are any major problems, they can be solved in 2009, so next year. in short, our group is not convinced of the need to make changes hastily now, without thorough evaluation. we do not want to leave small businesses behind. that is why we have tabled an amendment which means that we leave the decision to the member states. if there are urgent problems in one of the member states, that member state can decide whether to grant exceptions. that is perfectly in line with the regulation, mr schnellhardt, and it is also very pragmatic and very simple. so please support amendment no 12.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). i believe that this should always be the main idea in debates of this kind and the central point of departure for european policy. of course, it is also necessary to ensure that there are as few bureaucratic, useless rules as possible that hinder citizens, but existing rules already allow for the exemption of micro-enterprises from the most complex administrative hygiene requirements. coffee in community houses or soda stalls is not threatened and other businesses simply need to maintain good hygiene. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore strongly oppose this, as do consumer organizations.
mr president, we would like to make the amendment somewhat more balanced by adding at the end of this amendment: ‘stresses at the same time the necessity to improve the procedures relating to the eu’s black list’.
in writing. the european union has long been working on special cooperation relations with countries on the african and asian shores of the mediterranean. the question that is constantly raised by this cooperation is whether we are thereby supporting the dictatorship in syria and whether we are satisfied with the way in which israel is delaying the establishment of an equal and internationally recognized palestinian neighbourhood. the idea of a special union between the eu and all the mediterranean countries, proposed by french president sarkozy, is particularly welcome in the public opinion of eu member states bordering the mediterranean. the establishment of such a union can help the eu to build up spheres of influence in its neighbourhood with unequal partners, following the example of the traditional us arrangements with parts of latin america. it can also become a legitimation for the dictatorships in tunisia, libya and syria, and to a lesser extent algeria and egypt. it makes it easier to send refugees back to such states. and it offers the opportunity to enhance contacts with israel now, rather than waiting until after the recognition of a neighbouring palestinian state. it is only because of these underlying problems that i am not voting for this resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking in particular of the prominence of the waste hierarchy, the elimination of the by-product category, the prudent handling of the end-of-waste concept, the protective rules on hazardous waste and the objectives for prevention, reuse and recycling. the only negative thing in the report by the committee on the environment was the amendment to encourage waste incineration by considering it as a useful application if sufficient energy is recovered. the negotiating result, which was reached after two months, leaves little of the recommendation of the committee on the environment, and that was not the fault of the rapporteur but, above all, of the council's rigid position. the article on by-products has not been amended and member states can decide on their own when waste is no longer waste, with all the distortions of competition that come with it. moreover, no prevention targets have been set and the targets for reuse and recycling have been considerably weakened. that is why i did not support the compromise package. i hope, however, that we will adopt the better elements of the committee on the environment in tomorrow's vote, and i am referring in particular to the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group and the greens. the environment is worth going through another conciliation procedure to get the council to make the necessary improvements. if we do this convincingly as a parliament, it should be possible, under the leadership of mr jackson, to get more out of it than is the case now. i would like to thank mr jackson and the other shadow rapporteurs once again for their good cooperation and i hope that we will have a good result in the vote tomorrow.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for all the work she has done in the negotiations with the council. i think we have a very good compromise package in front of us in terms of water quality standards. i am particularly pleased that the concept of the mixed zones is maintained. i have a question to commissioner dimas on that. it is an important concept from the point of view of feasibility, provided, of course, that the environment is not significantly affected. the water framework directive calls for a reduction in the purification effort for drinking water. drinking water standards are more stringent than water quality standards. in the surface water there are several drinking water intake points and in practice the intake points may be located reasonably close to a polluting point source, which may place such an intake point in a mixing zone and which increases the purification effort for water treatment plants. can commissioner dimas promise me that he will do everything possible to prevent mixing zones from becoming a problem for drinking water intake points?
president. - i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperouze, for her work which has led to a good agreement at second reading. clear surface water is of course very important. there are constant reports of too much mercury and other harmful substances in the fish. that is unhealthy for people and the environment and we certainly need to do something about it. the result now is a good balance between environmental protection on the one hand and cost-effectiveness for businesses, for water boards and for public authorities on the other. the european parliament has successfully called for a number of improvements. for example, mixing zones near discharge points where higher levels of pollution are allowed should be clearly demarcated and member states should indicate how the mixing zones can be reduced in the future. parliament also has a policy for the future: substances which are potentially harmful should be listed separately for further investigation. i wholeheartedly support this. i also agree with the question that mr blokland asked commissioner dimas about the discharge points and the drinking water intake points in the mixing zones. i would also like to draw attention to a number of source measures, particularly in the vicinity of hospitals, as well as to residues of medicines. that is also an important point for the future.
president, commissioner, i thank mr harangozó for his attention to the vulnerable groups. cohesion policy has long made a substantial contribution to the upliftment of vulnerable groups. now, take ireland, for example, a country with very vulnerable groups: super high youth unemployment, deplorable cities, backward countryside, with almost no opportunities. many other countries also see the replacement of social exclusion with employment, training and participation. that is the course we are taking and it is also extremely successful. second point. i have seen it said in particular that we know too little, we have too little data. i agree that this can be improved, especially by the member states, the regions and the cities themselves. mr harangozó wonders why the life expectancy of hungarians is 15% lower than the average life expectancy in the eu. i don't know, but i've been to hospitals. the food and drink habits are extremely bad and there is nothing the european community can do about it. i think that taking responsibility for the region is one of the most important elements of our policy. finally, what is the underlying reason why the epp is against nuts 4? we are against it because in 2004 we voted for a strengthening of the policy until 2013, for more mass, more focus. we have even decided to include the entire external border in the policy on the external borders in the interreg areas. this is going to tend to fragment, to fog up, and that may not be the direction we go in the future in this field. that would be a mistake. that is why i ask you once again to delete that particular article. i am also happy to accept the challenge put forward by the rapporteur, namely that we should have an intensive debate on territorial cohesion over the next six months.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the mediterranean, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not depleted. it's the poorest neighborhoods that are going to have to deal with this, not the richest. and yes, europe will lose the support of its voters, especially those on the lowest incomes. that is why coherent policy is an absolute requirement. it is sad in many ways, but also very understandable that ireland has rejected the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty is a real step forward in development policy. it is in this text that coherence is first well established. the union must not take from the poor countries with one hand what is given with the other. the union's policies in agriculture, fisheries and trade must not be in conflict with development policy. yes, that is true in several policy areas, but it is not a question of rivalry between committees in this parliament. that's a trivial detail. the treaty of nice merely stated that the union must present itself to the world as a coherent force. that wasn't enough. the agricultural policy shamelessly dumped our surpluses, such as sugar and grain, on the world market with export subsidies. fortunately, they are almost a thing of the past. but it is only in the treaty of lisbon that the supporters of the poor countries find the legal basis to protect solidarity with the poorest in the world. ireland voted against it anyway. the lowest-income groups in particular have said no, because the poorest in europe do not feel sufficiently connected to this european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the task, as the rapporteur, mr schmidt, makes very clear, is to show solidarity with all citizens in europe and in the developing countries, while respecting the environment. that's not an easy task. the temptation is great to trade one solidarity for the other. and yet it is not a contradiction. solidarity with developing countries is the precondition for genuine solidarity with the low-income people in europe and the rest of the world.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, negotiations with the council have been long, intensive, complicated and tough. the starting point for most member states was: ‘how do we get rid of this directive, as we do not want any european standards on the return of illegally staying third-country nationals?’. clearly council and parliament had a very different understanding of what should be a serious return directive with sufficient safeguards. parliament had to fight for each and every single word and comma. to everybody, and to the pse group in particular, it should by now be crystal clear that the compromise package puts in rules where none exist at present. member states with more favourable conditions in place should maintain these, or introduce them if they wish to do so. national parliaments have a role to play to ensure this in the implementation of the directive. moreover, we also secured a political declaration from the council that this directive will not and cannot be used as an excuse to lower existing standards. experiences with 10 other asylum and migration directives do show that the fear that there is a tendency among member states to use the transposition of such directives as a pretext for making their national law more repressive does not materialise. at present, no eu legislation exists as regards the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. with the adoption of the package, community control mechanisms will become available. infringement procedures, competence of the european court of justice, commission reporting, ep monitoring: all these will be available. three years of debate have shown that there is no more room for manoeuvre and it is obvious that at second reading no further improvements will be made. yes, it is unfortunate, i admit, but it is true. council will start tabling a list with many ‘no-go’ proposals. pandora’s box will indeed be opened. clearly the current political climate in most member states will not be of any help. so how to put in place common minimum rules where none exist at present? how to make sure that community control mechanisms will be available? how to make sure that coe guidelines are made legally binding for all member states? at this stage, the fundamental question is: do we want a directive or not? do we want a directive which is not perfect but undoubtedly a first step in the right direction, or do we not want a directive at all as we consider the current situation to be satisfactory? even now, many member states would be relieved if the directive died out due to parliament’s fault. so, what an irony that those members of parliament trying to break up the compromise package are effectively supporting those member states not wanting to have any european safeguards on return in the first place! the compromise package should be seen as a very modest but important first step. the return policy cannot be looked upon in an isolated way, but should be seen as a necessary part of a total package on migration, including legal, as well as asylum. indeed, in my view, after almost three years of debate and negotiations, it is high time to take up our responsibility. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the dutch delegation of the social democrats and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, eluned morgan, on the way in which she has prepared this opinion. we are in favour of unbundling. we have already put this into practice in the netherlands and have good experience with it, including investments and the well-functioning market in this sector, both the gas and the electricity sectors. i think it is very important to continue this at european level. i would also like to mention that mrs kroes, the commissioner responsible for competition, has contributed to this development, also through her current work with rwe and eon. i think that's an important development. the other point is energy poverty, and that is why we also think this is a very strong report from parliament and we hope that it will be passed.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is therefore necessary to come up with a new legislative package now, and commissioner piebalgs knows as well as my colleagues how much i care about a level playing field. dividing the property is the best option. fortunately, the energy council has recognised that there is no such level playing field in the current situation. the ban on takeovers by horizontal un-divided companies in the coming years is therefore justified. no cherry-picking of smaller vital businesses by non-divided organizations. this gives organisations in the netherlands, producers such as nuon and essent, the opportunity to orientate themselves in europe; there's a pause in the coming days. in this context, i wholeheartedly support the division of ownership now proposed in mrs morgan's report.
i am sure that the commissioner will be grateful for the answer, mr president, because she is analysing very well what is going on. my next question might be: where do you see this difference by member state? the belgian ruling would lead one to say that there is still no good level playing field between the large providers and the new entrants to the market. could that mean we're getting a longer transition period? it could mean that we are, so to speak, giving europe-wide a little more time for that adjustment. now you see that the little ones are the butt of that market.
mr president, we have heard a great deal in this debate and i do not want to repeat everything, but i think there are two fundamental issues at stake here. first of all, fair competition or a level playing field between european producers and those from third countries. the european poultry sector has invested millions in advanced control of salmonella and other contaminants throughout the production chain, based on our european rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new products. same monks, same caps, as we say in the netherlands. we have recently demanded that for meat from brazil, and the same should apply to chicken meat from the united states. secondly, the precautionary principle. the reports on the health and environmental effects of this technique still raise the necessary questions. the commission's proposal to decide on a possible two-year authorization followed by an analysis based on new data is of course completely contrary to this precautionary principle. first we need clarity on security and then a debate, not the other way around. the idea of labelling american chlorinated chickens is also unacceptable, because the inequality between farmers here and there remains and, moreover, processed products are likely to escape this labelling. and when i speak of processed products, i mean, for example, the considerable quantities of chicken nuggets and drumsticks which will be consumed on television tonight by dutch, romanian, french and italian football fans. i therefore want to call on the commission to adhere to these two basic european principles, the level playing field and the precautionary principle, to respect the wishes of a large majority in the management committee and in this house and thus to abandon this unfortunate proposal.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). in the cities, areas formerly available for pedestrians, for children playing, for trees, for parks and plantations or for free trams were converted into car spaces between the 1950s and the 1980s. outlying roads were also widened or supplemented by wide through-track highways. public transport, on the other hand, became more expensive, while the network of lines and frequencies were reduced. even the construction of metro networks was not always aimed at speeding up public transport, with more space for large numbers of passengers, but rather at making more room for the car on the roads above the metro tunnels. many people are now condemned to use the car because of the location of their work and the lack of other means of transport. that takes up a lot of space, a lot of energy, affects air quality and causes a lot of unnecessary noise. but it is especially unsafe for pedestrians and cyclists, who have to share a scarce public space with the car. when we talk in this parliament about measures to protect pedestrians and other vulnerable road users, unfortunately we are not usually talking about alternatives to the car, but about how we can shape the car in such a way that the damage in a collision is reduced. for years, we have been talking here mainly about car lights, about braking systems and about the front edges of cars that can injure pedestrians. the european commission is now proposing to replace the 2003 and 2005 directives which required member states to incorporate better security measures into national legislation with a regulation which directly imposes eu legislation. the choice of regulation quickly provides the greatest degree of certainty and uniformity for companies involved in automotive technology, but it also has disadvantages. we are thus pushing democratic considerations within the member states further into the background. moreover, that regulation would not enter into force until 2014 and would be more moderate for phase 2 than the directive already provides. i support the rapporteur, mr ferrari, if he wants to introduce safety measures as soon as possible. my group can agree to this modest improvement, because all the little things help, but for real security more is needed. the best contribution to safety is to prevent further growth in the number of cars and to reduce their number where possible.
the report by mr ferrari deals with the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. i am pleased that mr ferrari has succeeded in reaching agreement with the council at first reading. i would like to thank him for his work and congratulate him on his excellent report. i'd like to make a few comments. let me begin by saying that the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users is of the utmost importance to me. you know that in my country, the netherlands, the weaker road users make up a large proportion of the total number of road users; the proportion of young people in the labour force is relatively high, especially in the transport between home and work and to and from school. recreational walking and cycling are also becoming increasingly important. these walkers and cyclists are of great value to our society. walking and cycling are extremely environmentally friendly modes of transport and, in addition, cycling and walking are very healthy for citizens, provided the air quality is good. a large proportion of car journeys in european cities are less than 5 kilometres. it is therefore important to encourage citizens to opt for clean and healthy forms of transport, while ensuring that they are adequately protected as vulnerable road users. because although i just praised the netherlands, because so many citizens there cycle and walk, there are also more and more citizens who no longer dare to let their children cycle or walk a short distance to school, for fear of accidents. however, the measures included in the compromise will help to reduce the frequency of accidents and, if they do occur, their harmful consequences. that is why i am satisfied with the compromise reached. i hope that citizens, at least in their own urban agglomeration, will increasingly cycle and walk instead of driving. on the other hand, we must be careful not to get into a situation where we are trying to reduce all the risks on the road to zero, because it is not possible to eliminate all the risks. it is equally important that the directors be made aware of their own responsibility. all measures taken in this area of policy should emphasise that road users themselves remain principally responsible for their own safety and for the safety of their fellow road users. finally, i would like to briefly touch on the actual legislation proposed. i welcome the choice of a regulation rather than a directive. this will ensure that the application of this important legislation is clear and will prevent any further divergences between member states as regards the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users. i am also pleased that this new proposal focuses more on active safety systems than the 2003 and 2005 directives. active solutions, such as brake assist systems, have the advantage over passive safety systems that they also prevent a lot of negative side effects of accidents, such as delay, traffic jams and immaterial damage that are not limited by the application of passive safety systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i support the idea of setting deadlines for increasing the requirements for type approval. the safety of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users is not a subject to be neglected. i also want to mention the fact that amendments to article 11 must be made by the codecision procedure. it is not desirable that essential changes be made through the comitology procedure.
in writing. - war, dictatorship, discrimination, natural disasters and poverty are driving people from africa and asia to flee to europe. for many refugees, this is not a choice for improvement, but a choice for survival. at the tampere summit in 1999, an attempt was made to reduce the flow of refugees to a number of eu member states. this was not achieved by appealing to mutual solidarity to spread refugees more widely across the territory of the eu member states, but only by creating even greater barriers to entry into europe at the external borders. in recent years, more and more distressing situations have arisen. many people drown at sea, and when they reach land they are imprisoned for a time, forced into illegality or forcibly returned to a country where they cannot survive. the weber report and the attempt to reach agreement with the council at first reading are leading to a further deterioration. there is a growing opposition to this in many quarters, and rightly so. if this is nevertheless adopted, people can be detained without trial for a year and a half, children can be sent back more easily and returnees can be banned from entering for 5 years regardless of the deteriorated situation in their country of residence.
in writing. − the provision of electricity is not a trade but a utility. it must be delivered to all interested parties without interruption and with the lowest possible environmental impact. this requirement is contrary to the risks of international trade by competing companies. electricity will continue to be a scarce and fragile commodity, especially as fossil fuels are depleted and global warming continues. it is therefore good that in many eu member states it is the state or local authorities that have set up power stations and electricity networks. privatization of these utilities is undesirable and dangerous. the sale gives new owners a monopoly on the transportation network. this network is an unprofitable tool between production and sale, but its ownership can be misused to impose a high toll on users and any competitors. the setting of electricity prices through the stock exchange leads to consumer prices that are much higher than the production costs. the eu member states are rightly looking at how to combat these dangers. the situation varies considerably from one member state to another. considerations can best be made there. i am in favour of the greatest possible freedom for the member states, the third option as envisaged in the glante amendment, but then against this european directive as a whole.
mr president, the fisheries sector is in a difficult situation because of the high fuel prices. in 2008 alone, the price of gas oil increased by more than 38%. there are no signs of an end to the price increase for the time being. in my country, the netherlands, some 15 vessels of the cod fleet have already been ordered to stop fishing because every fishing trip results in a loss. but the dramatic rise in prices is not the only factor responsible for the dramatic situation. the import of large quantities of fish at low prices from outside the european union is also partly responsible for this situation. large quantities of yellowtail flounder and pacific flounder are imported into the netherlands and sometimes sold as sole and flounder. this is unfair competition with the sole and plaice caught by the dutch fishermen. the use of the names of these fish species needs to be more closely monitored. the dutch fleet must also be transitioned. the ships we have today are too big and too dependent on fossil fuels. in fact, all vessels should be replaced by smaller multi-purpose vessels with sustainable fishing methods. unfortunately, the european commission has only granted a temporary licence for five electric pulse-fishing vessels for sole. we'd like more. the sector needs financial resources to survive and this needs to be addressed in the short term. i welcome the proposals of the european commissioner. perhaps there are also opportunities through the co2 savings of the fisheries sector. it's good to look at that again. the dutch fishing fleet is responsible for about 1% of total co2 emissions. we want to reduce it by 20%. if you look at the price of co2 of 25 euros per ton, there are possibilities here. especially when you consider that with a cleanup that fleet disappears and there's a complete reduction in co2 emissions. a seven-year depreciation could be expected. i hope the commission will go ahead with the proposals. parliament will be happy to support them, but perhaps you could take this with you.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to react to what was said by the president-in-office and the commissioner. we also hope that, with a new president in russia and, finally, a mandate for negotiations on a new contractual arrangement with russia, we will now enter into a more positive period of cooperation with the russians. over the last 10 years we have seen enormous growth in the interdependence between the european union and russia. for that reason, i think it is good to work with them with a clear mandate to define more concretely the work we want to do in the four areas of common spaces as we have been developing over the last few years. of course, we also want to use the new possibilities to continue – and maybe to intensify – to be partners in the international arena. we also have to work on creating a secure and transparent framework for energy relations, including, of course, trade, but also improving the investment climate in russia, where admittance and entry into the wto could be very helpful. i also think we have to work together to enable ourselves to work on the problems in the shared neighbourhood. we have already talked about transnistria and the caucusus, but we also have to look at how we can find a kind of compromise in the near future on the issue of kosovo. we also have to create necessary and effective mechanisms to deal with human rights violations and also – to say it more positively – to help promote the rule of law in russia. i would like to make two final remarks. i would like to emphasise, as we have done many times before, that, in order to make these negotiations successful from our side, we have to speak with one voice. i would also like to say – and i have said it before – that we also have to remain somewhat pragmatic. our leverage is limited: russia is not a candidate country; it does not want to join the european union; it is following its own course. it wants to cooperate and not integrate. i think we should take that into account in our dealings and talks with them in the years to come.
the president, madam commissioner, it is only by talking to each other that misunderstandings are avoided. we are now going to have a very intensive dialogue with each other, because we are going to start a dialogue with the russian federation when we start talking about the partnership and cooperation agreement. it is good that the negotiations are now beginning. the last decade has seen incredible changes both in russia and in the european union, but we have also become more interdependent than ever. that is why good binding agreements on energy, but also on climate change, are necessary for both. mr president, we must not forget some of the classics in these agreements. although some colleagues may have doubts, it is precisely now that we must focus on common values, such as strengthening the rule of law, fighting corruption and the importance of an independent social debate in russia itself. mr president, the negotiations will not be easy. i do not think that a new agreement should be an encyclopedia, but it should contain a number of very important points which are binding on both partners. we cannot wait for the agreement to be reached, mr president, because there must be positive voices from the kremlin on a number of other points as well. however, i am also concerned about a number of developments. i'm mentioning chechnya, i'm mentioning the tnk v. bp case and also abkhazia. i would like to know from the presidency what exactly you mean by joint action.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gurmai, for her report. she took the right approach. mr kusstatscher is of course right in his philosophical criticism of the use of the term 'intelligent car'. and of course, this is about artificial, artificial intelligence, and that's how we should understand that word. there are two issues which should be clearly highlighted in the resolution on the intelligent car. firstly, the development of the intelligent car must serve the interests of a clean environment. secondly, this development should have a positive effect on road safety. i am glad that these issues have been clearly included in mrs gurmai's report. i would like to make the following comments. firstly, i believe it is important that the development of the intelligent car should be in line with the environmental objectives of the european union. the report mentions the european commission's objective of limiting the co2 emissions of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to an average of 120 grams per kilometre. i would add that the target for 2020 is 80 grams per kilometre. i think that the development of intelligent cars can also help to achieve this goal. certainly, in the sustainable development of energy sources for the car there are still many intelligent possibilities to achieve the co2 emission targets. secondly, i note that road safety has also been served by the further development of intelligent cars. the report already says a lot about this, so i will not go into it at length. with regard to recital j, it should be clear that, regardless of whether technological development makes drivers feel safer and therefore less attentive, each driver is responsible for his or her own prudent driving behaviour. this principle must remain at the forefront and it is good that this is brought to the attention of the directors. my final remarks will be directed to this report as a whole. it is of the utmost importance that the development of intelligent cars is not seen in isolation from the development of an intelligent car environment. it is precisely in this cooperation that there are many opportunities to reduce environmental pollution and to make traffic safer. a good transport system is of vital social importance. we must, however, accept that transport is detrimental to the environment and will continue to be associated with accidents. however, the development of intelligent transport systems can certainly contribute to reducing these negative effects of transport. i would therefore like to draw attention once again to recital 13. i expect the member states and the european commission to give strong support to the introduction of environmentally friendly and vehicle-safe features. i also stress the importance of sharing knowledge about intelligent transport systems in a good way. it is likely that the knowledge will be available in member states which are relatively less affected by the negative effects of transport mentioned above. in that case, it would be good to have a system which ensures that this important knowledge is also available in member states which have a strong interest in it and which respects the intellectual property rights of the developer of the intelligent transport systems. i think that the member states should reach clear agreements on this.
in writing. − whereas we fully support cooperation between the member states to prevent the import of dangerous toys, drugs and other illegal or dangerous products, and whereas we fully support cooperation with trading partners to this end, we cannot vote in favour of this resolution due to the severe impact of the customs union on developing countries’ trade. the eu uses the customs union as a tool to negotiate favourable trade deals with developing countries while at the same time imposing high tariffs on products that are seen as unwanted competition for eu products. this policy is hampering the potential for economic growth in developing countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it requires the people's united support in defending these values. i wish that claim was true and that the people of burma could be happy with the state of affairs they have been in for the past 40 years. but what are the values that this regime defends? four features stand out. first of all: privileges for a military caste; a closed armed group controls the government and the economy. that group can enrich themselves while the others remain poor. secondly: the oppression of national minorities: the groups in the interior with a different language and a different culture who want self-government. the british colonial past has added their territories to burma, but in that country they are condemned to the position of third-class citizens. thirdly: the acquisition of foreign income through export on the basis of competition through extremely low wages or forced labour. fourthly: the systematic exclusion of groups who want to change this situation from any participation, even though they have won the only free elections that this regime has ever dared to organize. in the relief efforts after the flood disaster, we saw how much this regime is afraid of the possibility that foreigners on the ground might notice how bad it is or that they might influence the population. internally displaced persons must return quickly to their devastated villages without reconstruction with the sole aim of making contact between discontented masses impossible. immediately after the disaster, a referendum was held as a matter of priority, the main aim of which was to permanently exclude the democratic opposition from the government by means of a false result. the imprisonment of people for political reasons is a survival tool for such a regime. the outside world must stand up for these prisoners and other opponents. china and india should do the same, along with europe.
the author. - mr president, the violence in somalia has everything to do with the fact that there has been no generally recognised government since 1991. the south and centre of the country have been the scene of years of fighting between the armies of various warlords, and in the north the administration of the territory of the former british colony of somaliland is not internationally recognised. the union of islamic courts and the army of neighbouring ethiopia have since clashed. agreements on reunification of the country were never generally supported, and those who supported them often ended up withdrawing. this prolonged chaos soon turns support from the outside world for any transitional government into interference in intractable armed internal conflicts. in recent years i have warned on several occasions that the european union is being tied to one of the warring parties by co-financing failing structures without any prospect of a lasting and comprehensive solution. europe must certainly help if a solution is possible, but premature intervention leads to accidents. on 15 november 2007, during an earlier urgent debate on somalia, this parliament adopted a resolution calling for an end to foreign military interventions and for dialogue and reconciliation at home. it is good that the resolution before us today also speaks out against the misuse of european union support for warlords who want to restore their power, against the use of child soldiers and against new arms supplies. yesterday, an assassination attempt on the interim president abdullahi yusuf failed. armed forces are still at odds. we must now see whether the agreement reached last week to end the violence within 30 days and replace the ethiopian intervention force with a united nations peacekeeping force within three months will have a serious chance. if this leads to real solutions, european support will be useful.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). every year thousands of men from europe, the united states, australia and korea travel to poor countries in southeast asia, africa and latin america to engage in this sickening form of tourism, and almost always go unpunished. with this citizens' initiative we want to say: this can't go on. the european union too can no longer ignore this and we must, for example, strengthen the role of europol. i am very pleased to inform you that in this very short time we have already gathered 14 000 signatures. the campaign will continue, of course. i would also like to thank you for the broad support, including that of people in this parliament. not only have the members of my own group, the liberal group, signed, but i have also seen colleagues from the epp group, the socialist group, the gue/ngl group and others on the list, and that is of course very welcome. i should like to take advantage of the presence of the french presidency here to thank the french government for the initiatives it has taken in the past on this point, often in opposition to other member states. i hope, however, that you will not be discouraged and that you will take initiatives again in the course of the six months ahead.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - of course, all this is extremely important and it is good to know that mr haug is in good hands. i can say that the cooperation has been extremely pleasant. i am speaking as rapporteur for the development cooperation budget and i agree with those who say that in heading 4 an increase in the budget is urgently needed. but i would like to draw attention to two issues which are of importance from the point of view of development cooperation. that is firstly the food crisis and secondly a results-oriented evaluation. the food crisis, as has been said, is a major problem. we must therefore also look for solutions through the budget, both in the short, medium and long term. for the short term, there's food aid. i welcome the initiatives taken by the european commission in this respect. in the long term, we have basically the special programme for food security within the ios, but unfortunately it is only just starting and is not fully operational yet. so the problem is greatest in the medium term. the attention paid to food security and food production in developing countries is too low, both in the countries themselves and in the eu. we know about rural development, but it often does not benefit things like food production at all, but more the building of roads and things like that. i understand the european commission's proposal to use under-spent agricultural resources for this purpose. it is not only very difficult from a budgetary point of view, but also in other respects. countries that fulfill their pledges to set aside 0.7% of their gross national product for development aid will say: let other countries do the same, let them also keep their promises, and we may be able to do much more. they have a good argument which must be taken into account. in any case, it must be clear that the money must really benefit food security, increase production, the poor farmers in the poor countries. the second point concerns the evaluation of results. in europe, criticism of development cooperation is growing, even in countries that have always been development-minded and generous. we must not just stick to good intentions and good intentions, mr president, but evaluate in a results-oriented way. better effects, more results. we can convince people.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs haug and the commissioner. i also had the french presidency on my list, but unfortunately it has already taken the wrong path. one of the attractions of this budget for the member states is the low rate of payment appropriations. i think that 0.9% is one of the lowest rates we have had in recent years. it is up to us to see whether that is realistic or not. there is nothing wrong with keeping it low, but it has to be realistic and we have already heard that we may have a lot of new priorities coming our way. one of the things we will have to look at - and many have already said so - is section 4. if we look at heading 4, one of the main institutions to which the money goes is the united nations. i have just returned from a trip to kosovo by the committee on budgetary control. what we have heard there about the united nations is not very optimistic. i think the commission should take a hard look at its policy towards this institution. another point is heading 5 of the budget. the margin is, i believe, at the moment, 121 or 123 million. how is that margin in the face of rapidly advancing inflation? 4% to 5% per year. what are the consequences of this for the commission's expenditure on staff, buildings and so on, and what are the consequences for us?
- a writer. - we too are appalled by the latest measures announced by the italian government to solve the so-called roma problem in italy. i am very sorry that we have to have such a debate here today. i myself was rapporteur for slovakia's accession for many years and have had a lot to do with the roma problem. i used to say: i am not saying that we should not discriminate, it is simply forbidden, those are the rules and agreements of the european union. the registration of roma is very much like discrimination and that did not happen in slovakia. it is a pity that i now have to debate the action of the government of an existing member state. the latest package issued by interior minister maroni to address, as the government now calls it, the roma emergency has a bad side. the creation of a database of fingerprints of roma children is contrary to the fundamental principles of the european union: non-discrimination, equality before the law, protection of minorities. the announcement of this measure comes at a time when the european commission has not yet completed its assessment of an earlier italian package of measures. in may of this year, the prefects of the major cities were given extraordinary powers to act against illegal immigrants and roma, powers that were also frowned upon at the time. i would therefore call on the italian government to exercise great restraint and not to go beyond the limits of what is acceptable in europe. abolish the measure! this has no place in the european union. the european commission is in a situation which, to my knowledge, has never been seen before. we therefore ask the commission to examine the measure carefully. the commission must take an objective position, look at the letter of the treaty and not be guided by political considerations. this approach and italy's approach are at odds with the eu treaty and the commission must make it crystal clear where the line is drawn. but it is not just italy, let us be clear. what this latest episode has made clear once again is that much more active policies are needed to break the social and economic isolation of the roma and to combat discrimination against them. last wednesday the commission presented an overview of what is already possible with european instruments. i thank the commission for that. as the commission says, member states can make more and better use of the existing instruments to promote the integration of roma. but i also expect the commission to come up with concrete plans which were not there last week. several resolutions of this parliament, the last of which was adopted in january of this year, also call for this. if one thing has become clear, it is that we need not wait any longer to take the roma and the position of the roma in europe seriously. it is a very special minority which cannot be counted among the traditional minorities. it is a problem that affects europe as a whole, especially since the recent enlargements which have made many roma eu citizens. a policy of repression will not ultimately solve the problems of the roma, nor the problems and tensions which they sometimes cause in our society. it is a matter of an integrated approach, and the way in which the italian government is trying to tackle the problem is unacceptable in my view.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, digital fingerprints are a modern version of nazi methods to distinguish gypsies from other citizens. the digital fingerprints database is the most brutal revival of racism since 1940-1945 – for the fingerprints are a state-authorised first step to facilitate mass evictions of an ethnic group. most of the roma who are legally crossing the borders of an increasingly borderless europe are poor and badly educated. what they basically need is a place to stay. poverty should be solved on the spot, not by evictions, and let us keep in mind that roma are the largest minority in europe – not less than 19 member states have a population smaller than the european roma community. during communism, roma had jobs and free access to health care and education; after communism their living standards dropped. but the poverty was a fertile soil for fund-raising. the gypsy industry emerged; ngos like oxfam and care made big money as executors of projects. but roma hardly benefited, and moved to the west as soon as they were allowed to. pushed by the council of ministers to examine policies to improve roma inclusion, the commission admits the urgency of this in a document of 2 july. it refers to the european parliament resolution for a european framework strategy and it recognises its role as a coordinator – finally! in the document, under the heading ‘lessons learned’, i read ‘for effective roma inclusion, the full involvement of civil society and in particular roma ngos is a factor for success.’ roma have become partners! i hope we will soon see how this will be feasible within a structure of the commission itself. meanwhile i strongly advise the commission to study the osce action plan. why reinvent the wheel? finally, i call upon the commission to make clear to the italian government that fascist rule is in contradiction with eu law, and that roma victims who lost their property should be compensated. once italy exported fashion; nowadays it exports racism.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in this hellish task we are facing. although the final result is not quite what i would like, i think that we have achieved the maximum that can be achieved in these political relations. in all these cases, i think there are two things that come first: maximum consumer protection and full transparency. i believe that economic interests are entirely subordinate to these two basic concepts. maximum consumer protection means systematic application of the precautionary principle. if you don't know 100% that something is safe, don't put it on the market. it is also essential to avoid misleading consumers when they make a purchase. maximum transparency means that we do not give in to pressure from multinational food companies to keep their formulas and production methods secret. consumers have the right to know exactly what is in their food and under what conditions it was produced. in the light of these two principles, i must say that the four reports, although not always ideal, are a clear improvement on the original proposals. they are in favour of consumer protection and transparency and i will therefore support the compromise. it is a pity that we have not been able to arrange the labelling of gmos directly. finally, i would like to add one more thing. i find it very remarkable that in new proposals, such as the new foodstuffs, the commission is already launching the uniform procedure before parliament has adopted it. i think that shows, to put it mildly, a lack of respect for european democracy.
mr president, we are holding this debate today because citizens and governments are concerned about the construction of this pipeline. they are concerned about the environmental situation in the sensitive baltic sea region. but this is a huge politicization of the debate. everyone agrees that all international and environmental conventions must be respected, especially when it comes to the sensitive baltic sea area. but, mr president, the politicization that is taking place here has nothing to do with that. we must recognize that we need energy, that domestic production, for example in the netherlands, is falling more and more and that we therefore need the gas of others. that gas is from russia. it would have been much better to transport that gas overland. but that has been made impossible. now we have to go through that sensitive area. so my first point is respect for all international and environmental conventions. the second point is - and i hope not everyone has been deaf - that if there is sufficient environmental impact assessment, then permits must be issued. such licences should be issued by germany, denmark, sweden and also finland. we shall have to make a further assessment of this later, at the end of the year. another point. we also need a certain reciprocity. we depend on russian gas and the russians depend on our willingness to buy. i hope that this reciprocity will be properly regulated in the partnership agreement in the future, without all the political emotions associated with this project. that way we will be able to solve many problems in the world.
the peace process in afghanistan is a matter of life and death for citizens of the european union and beyond. they all deserve the utmost respect and the full support of the european parliament, not to mention our prayers for divine protection, because their mission remains very dangerous. the murderous attack in kabul yesterday morning is further proof of this. i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to two specific problems of the complex situation in afghanistan. without an effective strategy against the talibanization of northern pakistan, the stabilization of afghanistan will remain primarily a western wish. as a result, nato forces are operating with their hands tied. the second afghan problem is the urgent need to modernise agriculture. its greatest handicap is the continuing insecurity in large parts of the country. un statistics are clear: the more insecure the region, the more abundant the poppy fields are in annual bloom. i wish the council and the commission all the wisdom and perseverance in the real stabilisation of afghanistan.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter liese, for the way he conducted the negotiations with the council and for the efforts he has made to achieve this result. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the emission ceiling, for example, is higher than parliament proposed, whereas the auction rates are lower. however, this agreement is more ambitious than the original commission proposal and i think that is a good thing. the aviation sector also needs to become a cleaner sector and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. in our fight against environmental pollution and climate change, this agreement is an important step in the right direction, especially in the light of the progress made in the climate package which we as parliament are now actively studying.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - i too find one minute very short, but i thank the commissioner, the minister, the members and also mr la russa for the preparation. i'll make this short. the energy market must be able to operate at european level, in particular to ensure that final consumers are supplied with energy at market prices. that's our goal. the disconnection is not an end in itself but we think it may be the way to a functioning market. if the so-called third or fourth way, as proposed by the council, can ensure a functioning market, then that is of course fine. however, in order to be ready for a possible alternative solution if that third or fourth way does not work, we have already put forward a proposal, which i hope will come to fruition tomorrow, for a so-called european network operator, which will be directed and controlled by the european union. i hope that this can be supported by both the commission and the council so that in a few years we will at least have an alternative. in october, mr president, we want to organise a round table meeting with all the interested parties and we hope that this will be a widely accepted idea.
for more than 50 years, sovereign wealth funds have been active on the financial market. in recent years, the resources of sovereign wealth funds have increased enormously in, for example, china, russia and the arab countries. the state investment funds aim to invest the state's surplus reserves in a profitable way. i think that these countries may be entitled to make the best use of their foreign exchange reserves. i am therefore in favour of the contributions from these funds. the funds improve the liquidity of financial markets and create growth and jobs. they also contribute to longer-term investment. they provide stability for the companies in which they invest. we must therefore continue to give them room to invest. however, these funds may also entail risks. we will have to look at the type of investment they make and whether they meet the requirements of transparency. the political involvement in these sovereign wealth funds is not yet fully clear. the disadvantage is also the lack of transparency and the growing concern we may have about these public investment funds. the european commission must therefore take action, and that is a good thing. otherwise, these sovereign wealth funds are dealt with nationally. i am against having too much national policy. we in europe must respond to this together. it is important to have a coordinated position at european level. i therefore welcome the response of the council and the commission to work closely together at the level of the imf and the oecd. i look forward to the guidelines that the imf, the world bank and the oecd are developing and i hope that transparency, good governance and reciprocity are incorporated into them. i think that we should limit ourselves to the public investment funds when it comes to reciprocity. we are always in favour of private investment, but we can demand reciprocity from public investment funds.
madam president, i share the concerns expressed here by many speakers about state-owned funds, but i would like to stress as well that private commercial funds, such as hedge funds and private equity, are of even more concern. this is because they often do not have a long-term-oriented focus, whereas sovereign wealth funds, together with pension funds, often have this long-term orientation and can strengthen the role of minority shareholders, as well as having a positive role in providing the market with liquidity. the point is that they are often not transparent enough in their investment strategy and intentions, and i hope that the commission will focus on this. the committee on legal affairs recently adopted a report in this parliament on the transparency of institutional investors, and there we asked the commission to come up with a directive guaranteeing common standards of transparency. i hope the commission can react to this request. my last point is about the code of conduct and the ‘comply-or-explain’ procedure. is this also an element which the commission has considered?
madam president, thank you for giving me the floor again. it is because mr purvis is saying that we might be demonising sovereign wealth funds and private equity and hedge funds, and i do not think this is the case. we also chose a very balanced approach in the oral question as it was tabled and in the resolution and i think it is wise not to ignore or deny that it is important for us as a parliament to take account of what is happening in this field. i think it is our duty, it is our right to do this, and i would not like to see this set aside as mere demonising.
president. - before the european union was established, we had a well-organized railway system in most of europe. since the end of the 19th century, this has been one of the core tasks of the state, along with the postal services. each state was responsible for its own railroads. in most cases the state had become the owner of the main or only domestic railway company. the need for this was created by the fact that the original private enterprises were mainly focused on making quick profits. they had failed to ensure the quality and continuity of the service on a sustainable basis. after they were taken over by the state, the infrastructure and the frequencies improved. the infrastructure belonged to the national railway company and thus to the state. the execution of passenger and freight transport was in the same hands. the commission has also taken the view that the community's transport policy should be based on a balanced approach to the problems of the environment and the environment. it was not necessary to have separate bureaucratic state bodies to deal with this. almost everything except the sleeping carriages and the dining carriages on international long-distance trains was nationally regulated. there was also good international cooperation. international rail travellers saw the railways as one big overarching european institution. at station counters, handwritten tickets to all possible destinations in europe and good information on foreign offers could be provided to everyone. regional cross-border and very long distance connections between non-contiguous states were available to a much greater extent than today. the system, which we can envy today, had four weak points, especially after electrification. different national grid voltages and different forms of electronic security were chosen. freight transport was hampered by checks, disconnection and transshipment at border stations. as public transport became increasingly unprofitable due to the rise of the car, border lanes were reduced and passengers had to pay an additional fee for crossing the border. after the advent of the airplane, information and ticketing for long-distance international travel were increasingly neglected. it is only in these areas that the european union's complementary action could bring about improvement. for years my group has been very irritated by the fact that the european union's interventions are not primarily aimed at these crossborder improvements but above all at greater liberalisation. to limit the damage of these changes, more accompanying bureaucracy is needed. a series of previous decisions on railways since 2001 have created established facts. in view of this new reality, my group is seeking the best possible result for the future. the results presented at second reading are relatively good. a number of considerations of subsidiarity, safety and the desire not to leave everything to agreements between the railway companies which have now become independent lead us to agree tomorrow, despite our criticism of the foregoing.
i would like to thank mr rack for his efforts. urban mobility is a complex subject for policy making at european level. a clear delimitation of responsibilities is not easy to achieve and this is reflected in the report we are debating here. on the one hand, the report states in several places that the european union has a role in the development of urban mobility plans, and in other places that urban mobility is a responsibility of european cities and municipalities, and that the principle of subsidiarity requires the european union to take only limited regulatory action. in short, weighing responsibility in this matter is difficult. i think, however, that the rapporteur, mr rack, has dealt with this matter well and has found a good wording with regard to the principle of subsidiarity. i have a few critical remarks to make. firstly, i think the report has become too detailed. this suggests that it is possible to design a european framework that can solve all the problems in all european cities. the detailed list of subjects for harmonization and a list of areas of action are very nice and well-intentioned, but i wonder if we are going much further with this. i think a general approach would have been more practical. this could have focused more on the exchange of best practices and technological developments in urban mobility. i realize that this approach is less ambitious, but i think that the priority must remain that urban mobility is a matter for european cities and municipalities. the list of subjects for harmonisation also includes some social standards. i don't think this is a good idea. social standards, such as the mobility of vulnerable road users, are highly national and therefore cannot be harmonised or standardised. despite these criticisms, i shall vote in favour of the report. the report by mrs rack has succeeded in making it clear that a safe, sustainable and well-functioning urban mobility structure is a matter for european cities and municipalities, and i think this is the great merit of the report. the european union can lend a helping hand by providing financial support and exchanging relevant information, but a regulatory european union is neither necessary nor desirable in this context. i would like to conclude, however, by saying that in all this we must not lose sight of the fact that the responsibility for the development of urban transport systems remains with the european cities. they will have to develop systems and work well with all the authorities concerned. finally, i would point out that the success of these transport systems depends on the participation of the citizens. they also have a responsibility to contribute to the objective of urban mobility plans: sustainable, safe and well-functioning urban transport.
on behalf of the ind/dem group thank you, mr president. i would also like to welcome mr trichet, president of the european central bank, and mr juncker. i would like to begin by congratulating mr trichet on the presentation of his annual report. the prospects for the eurozone are unfavourable, let us not turn a blind eye to them. i fear that in the years to come many of the objections raised against the introduction of the euro will be answered. after a number of years of prosperity, it will now be necessary to see whether the european central bank is able to ensure low inflation. the eurozone has one monetary policy, but soon 16 countries will have their own economic policies. sixteen countries with their own inflation rate and policies to stimulate employment. the latest interest rate hike by the european central bank will bring real interest rates in the euro area from 4% to 0.25%. but not in every member state is this rate an adequate means of combating rising inflation and the threat of recession. i would like to hear from mr trichet whether he can give an estimate of the adequacy of the instruments available for the coming years.
mr president, i would like to join in the compliments and congratulations given to the ecb for what it did last year in the financial crisis. the ecb’s role as liquidity provider of last resort and market maker of last resort has been emphasised in the report and i share this view. i think it also achieved this. linked to this, mr trichet, i think it is correct that you emphasised the necessity of better information access and exchange of information, where i think the ecb could take a leading role. this is also what we presented in a report for parliament in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which we will discuss next week, about the reform of the supervisory system. i think it is very important that we have a better link between the micro-prudential information that market and banking prudential supervisors have and the ecb information, and i think the ecb can take a leading role there. you have said that you do not want to overhaul the supervisory systems – that is not what we proposed – but i think it should also be in your interest not to be too dependent on the voluntary cooperation of member states and member states’ supervisory authorities in this exchange of information. therefore, it is important that there will be more independent players in this area and there will be a stronger system and a stronger structure at european level. another element is the payment and settlement systems. i am happy to hear that the target 2-securities proposal, which is elaborated by the ecb and other central banks, has now been received positively by the csds. i think this could be an important basis for further improvement of that system. i would also like to ask your opinion about what happens now, also from the market, in the sphere of derivatives and the over-the-counter market in order to create more central counterparties and a better system of supervision there. my last remark is a parallel with the bernanki speech yesterday, but i will not go into detail about it.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr olle schmidt on the preparation of this report. for the representative of a non-euro country, sweden, it has become a very good and clear report. i think he has met the criteria for accession on behalf of sweden. last week the european central bank raised interest rates. it is clear that the european central bank and its president, mr trichet, take the bank's mandate and the maastricht criteria seriously. i welcome this independent stance of the ecb. the ecb must be protected from political interference, for example by national governments, and i am also glad that this has been confirmed by mr juncker on behalf of the eurogroup. the european central bank has also acted well in response to the financial crisis. at the right time, the ecb has provided liquidity to the markets. this has stabilised interest rates in the short term. the banking crisis has awakened us. the lack of transparency of financial risks in institutions can lead to large losses. the european parliament is therefore discussing financial supervision. the european central bank can play a crucial role in this, because it is well informed by the national central banks. however, the treaty does not contain any provision to that effect. i believe that there should be closer cooperation between the central banks and the european central bank, the financial markets and the regulatory authorities. the european central bank should play a greater role in supervision. it is able to organise cross-border information exchange, especially when it comes to financial stability. the ecb has proved its right to exist. we must use its authority to strengthen financial supervision.
- i'm the reporter. - ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on clarifying and simplifying european social security coordination and thus also on clarifying the annex. the european parliament, the council and the commission have worked together to simplify the proposal so that european citizens can better understand the complex rules governing social security coordination. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have had the pleasure of working closely over the past months and years on this document. of course, jean lambert, who was the green party shadow rapporteur for my report, as i was the shadow rapporteur for her report, ria oomen-ruijten of the ppe-de group, mrs bilyana raeva of the alde group, dimitrios papadimoulis of the gue/ngl group and eva tomaszewska of the uen group, and all the other colleagues who have made a valuable contribution to the debate. i would also like to stress that the negotiations with the commission and the council have been very successful. i would like to thank in particular hélène michard and rob cornelissen of the european commission. as far as cooperation with the council is concerned, we have seen many different presidencies come and go. as the coordination of social security took several years to complete, we have already enjoyed cooperation with finland, germany, portugal, slovenia and france. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the process has been long, but it has certainly been a successful one. we now have a good compromise, which all the member states and all the european institutions, including the european parliament, can follow. the guiding principle in assessing the amendments has always been the conviction that changes to the current coordination system should in no way lead to a reduction in the rights of citizens. one very important example of this is the deletion of annex iii, since annex iii allows member states to restrict the rights of their citizens. with this report we have committed ourselves to a europe which gives more rights to its citizens in as many areas as possible. the beauty of european cooperation is that it enables european countries to work together to care for their citizens. social justice is an important part of that, and it doesn't stop at the border. citizens must be able to rely on the guarantee of their social rights, even across national borders. the single market allows citizens to move freely within the european union. we want to encourage that. the citizens must be able to count on their social security, their pensions, wherever they live or work, and good care, not only for themselves but also for their families, throughout europe. that is the true european cooperation.
on behalf of the pse group on behalf of the pse group, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the commission services and the slovenian presidency. this case has a long history. the former regulation no 1408/71 was one of the first pieces of legislation designed to promote the free movement of workers in europe. the simplification currently planned should lead to faster provision of services to the european citizen who claims them, and at the same time to better control of the legality of those claims. cooperation between the benefit institutions and the improvement of the exchange of information are of great importance in this respect. the implementing provisions must also avoid a breach for the frontier worker and the other beneficiaries. the second reading will leave our group with three points of concern which we may come back to. first of all, it should be noted that two separate schemes which determine whether a person is an employee or a selfemployed person without staff remain in force. in the field of social security, the definition in the country of origin is used, in the field of working conditions, in the case of the posting of workers, the definition in the country where the work is done. until we succeed in developing a clear european definition of selfemployed, this subject should be brought back to this house. a second point of concern is the information to be given to the rightholder. the text drawn up by the commission, which has been amended, still contains too many articles indicating at what stage and on what subject the rightholder will receive information from the responsible bodies. a clear statement of the right to information, centrally placed in these rules, can greatly increase clarity for the rightholder. a third concern is the monitoring of compliance. we know from the previous regulation that registration in the member states and cooperation and coordination between the competent authorities sometimes worked very poorly. it is highly desirable that this parliament be kept informed of the further implementation in this field.
i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the very good work they have done, because it has not been easy. the free movement of workers in europe, mr president, requires good regulations to ensure that workers who benefit from this free movement do not find themselves stranded. this is now laid down in the new coordination regulation. the coordination regulation was necessary because the old one was no longer sufficient and coordination could be simplified. i wonder if we can be satisfied with the result. has it really become easier? i have my doubts about that. we are coordinating social security, but what we are not coordinating is taxation, while taxation is becoming more and more taxed. i would like to see that considered. another point is that coordination is always done after the fact. national legislators should be much more aware of the consequences of systemic change for people who are mobile, that is, people who work in one country and live in another. i would also like to draw attention to an amendment to the annex. this amendment is very good for dutch pensioners who continue to pay their health care contributions in the netherlands, but live abroad, but until now had no right to receive that care in the netherlands despite having paid there. so dutch people living in belgium or germany, but also further afield, in france, the beautiful france, or in spain, will soon have the right to treatment. i also thank the minister for health, who has approved all of this.
- i'm the reporter. - i don't have much to say. i would like to thank all the people who have contributed to the debate, including for their support, and i look forward to the vote very soon.
mr president, i would like to propose reversing the order of the vote. amendment 79 is broader and amendment 163 restricts amendment 79, so amendment 79 is the most far-reaching. therefore we would like to have that first.
in writing. − today the proposal of mr. lambsdorff for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu priorities for the 63rd session of the un general assembly was adopted without a vote in plenary. not only is this practice – that is enabled by ‘rule 90’ – very dubious, it also gives the false impression that the whole ep agrees with the content of the report, which is certainly not the case. we strongly reject the recommendation that the current status of the lisbon treaty would call for a ‘reorganisation and expansion of the offices of the council and the commission in new york and geneva in view of the increased powers and responsibilities that the eu’s representatives will be expected to exercise with a view to ratification of the lisbon treaty.’ not only is this an insult to the irish voters that rejected the lisbon treaty by a wide majority during the referendum, it is also an attempt to interpret the lisbon treaty in such a way that it would ‘confer legal personality upon the eu’, thus making it a superstate.
in writing. the two largest groups prefer a two-party system. the main feature of such a system is that both parties have one common interest, namely that a second, third and fourth party do not have access to political decision-making, and that they remain completely irrelevant to the voters. only the largest fractions count; the protest and the alternative must be excluded. in the event that others nevertheless make their way into parliament by way of exception, they are preferred to be allocated the least attractive place possible, as individuals with restricted rights. some members of this parliament do not belong to a political group. this is often the result of coercion by others. the same pressure forces other members to join a group with which they partly disagree. the group of the european people's party has a right to vote in the european parliament. the reason is that you cannot form a group of less than 20 thousand or more of your own kind. for democratic input from all existing opinions in society, it is better that this threshold should disappear, rather than raising it to 25 or 30 and introducing rigid rules against dissidents. i absolutely reject that.
in writing. − cities are densely populated, have little outdoor space and have large transport flows over relatively short distances. the scarcity of space does not allow for heavy traffic, and noise and air pollution are reasons for striving to reduce the number of cars in the city. of course, the city must also be accessible to firefighters, police, ambulances, movers and transport for people with reduced mobility, but the scarce outdoor space must be available especially to pedestrians, cyclists, the tram, children playing and green areas. only then will the city be livable. the text on which we are voting today does not make that clear choice, but merely attempts to reconcile conflicting interests and ideas. fortunately, the eu has no jurisdiction in this matter. the only thing the eu can do is to contribute to the transfer of best practices, good experiences gained in the meantime with improvements. these improvements are not only important for the city where they have already been applied but also as an example for others. examples of this are the selective access of cars to central london, the new tram networks in strasbourg and bordeaux or the long-established car-free inner city of groningen. the eu will unfortunately have little to contribute to this on the basis of this report.
on wednesday afternoon, 18 june, i was to meet three honest, peaceful chinese citizens in a hotel in beijing. just an hour before we met, i learned that two of them had been arrested by the security services and the third had been ordered by the authorities to cancel our meeting. more than 31 hours later, both detainees were released. the official version is that they were not arrested and therefore not released, but only checked. in any event, the chinese authorities apparently wished to prevent any personal contact between a member of the european parliament and these three nationals. i can understand her disgusting attitude, though. beijing could hardly expect an olympic propaganda story from three prominent representatives of the thriving protestant house churches. in the run-up to the big sporting spectacle, members of unregistered protestant churches in particular are facing increasing religious persecution. the chinese progressive leadership has chosen to remain silent on the harrowing details of this repression. - it makes sense. after all, what glory is to be gained from the forced labor of a simple house church minister in beijing? for three years he had to work for ten to twelve hours a day manufacturing soccer balls for the upcoming olympic games. speaking of the chinese form of forced labor! furthermore, what should we think of chinese authorities who have had members of house churches arrested because they volunteered to help the victims of the terrible earthquake in sichuan province out of inner conviction? i didn't get to see him. mr president, in short, i believe that beijing has long since extinguished the olympic flame by its flagrant violation of fundamental rights, well before the olympic games began in its own country!
president, on 8 august the olympic games will begin in beijing. eight is a lucky number in chinese culture and is associated with good fortune and prosperity. i hope the chinese people can experience this as well. in economic terms, china is taking a very constructive approach. "it doesn't matter what color the cat is, as long as it catches mice", deng xiaoping once said. he opened the country to foreign capitalist enterprises. step by step, the chinese economy is being unleashed. at the moment, china is a solid partner in terms of economic development. it accepts, for example, that its currency is linked not only to the dollar but also to the euro and other currencies. china has a constructive role to play in the economic sphere. in the field of human rights, it is unfortunately clear that the relationship is not good, especially with regard to the human rights of its own population. i am disappointed that at such a festive event as the olympic games in china, restrictions are being imposed on the chinese-language satellite broadcaster that broadcasts from the west. i hope that the chinese government will take this opportunity to show the chinese people that the rules of the game apply not only on the sports field or in sports but above all when it comes to the government's respect for human rights and freedom of expression.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the situation in turkey. secondly, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation he has given in the preparation of this debate and, on behalf of my group, i would like to stress once again that, as far as we are concerned, and the president-in-office of the council has said so, enlargement has been a success so far and makes an important contribution to the development of the wider european union. we must emphasize this at the beginning of my speech and it is also stated in mr brok's report: we are sticking to the commitments made to turkey and the western balkan countries when we talk about the enlargement strategy. so there is no change in strategy for these countries, but more attention is paid to the way in which the accession criteria are applied and processed in the negotiation process. secondly, we agree with the rapporteur that more attention should be paid to the integration capacity of the union itself. on the one hand we are asking more of the applicant countries during the preparations, on the other hand it is clear that the european union itself must do something more to guide the arrival of new members. and that means, for us, also carrying out the necessary institutional reforms. the treaty of nice is not enough to make further enlargement a success. thirdly, and i think this is the most important point, the report also looks beyond the current enlargement agenda to the countries not on the shortlist of possible candidates. the neighbourhood policy we know is not enough. this is true of our southern neighbours, to whom the eu has now presented the proposal for a union for the mediterranean, and even more so of our eastern neighbours. we have clearly come to the conclusion that the european union must offer more, something that goes beyond the neighbourhood policy. for us, this must be about relations between those countries and the union as well as relations between those countries themselves. the black sea would provide a good geographical framework for this, and russia and turkey should also be involved. without these two countries, the main challenges and problems in the region cannot be solved. turkey could be a pivot between the black sea and the mediterranean, and in this way it could make clear its important position in europe and its great value to the european union.
president, after the large influx of accessions in 2004 and 2007, enlargement is stagnating. croatia has to wait until 2011, macedonia enters at the earliest in 2014 and the other five western balkan countries follow even later. negotiations are under way with turkey, but it is uncertain whether accession will be possible in the coming decades. with all the states that were formerly part of the soviet union's sphere of influence now in the european union, it seems to be tired of enlargement. the debate on enlargement and neighbourhood policy is based on two different views. in one view, the european union is a world power and a superstate which is gradually attracting more and more decisions from the member states. this superstate wants to make its immediate neighbours dependent on it, but does not give those countries influence as equal partners within the union. countries which are not sufficiently adapted or whose economies are weak are kept outside the union, but are nevertheless drawn into its sphere of influence without any participation. my group does not want to go that way. the other view is that it is a cooperation in diversity and equality. the union is open to any european state that wishes to join and that meets criteria such as democracy and human rights. such a union does not seek to impose decisions that have no impact on public opinion in the member states, but seeks to solve the transnational problems of its citizens by working together. such a union is the most useful and has the best chance of survival in the long term.
on behalf of the ppe-de group the fisheries agreement with mauritania, which was concluded on 1 august 2006, had to be renewed this year. on 14 december last year the commission suddenly proposed not to renew the fisheries agreement because the fishing opportunities it offered had not been fully exploited by the european fleet, especially for smaller pelagic species. it was a big surprise for us. at that time, partly at the instigation of parliament itself, the negotiations were resumed. the new protocol which the commission is now presenting to us is a very strict restriction on the old one. not only are the quantities of fish which have not been fully fished in previous years reduced, but all fish species show a sharp reduction: 25% for squid, between 10 and 50% for demersal species and 43% for pelagic species, while the compensation to mauritania remains the same or is reduced only to a limited extent in subsequent years. we wonder whether this restriction was really necessary and on what basis it is based, especially as the fisheries sector is currently in great difficulty due to the fuel price crisis and the reduced fishing opportunities. the commission has therefore decided to suspend the fishing authorizations for the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. the fishing industry must be able to exploit every fishing opportunity that exists at this moment. for example, it would be possible to create a bypass to mauritania for tuna fishing in the mediterranean. the dutch pelagic fleet is also affected by the restrictions now proposed, particularly for cod, herring and mackerel. this is about mauritania. i should like to make a very brief comment on the proposals made by the commission. unlike the proposals on mauritania, i am very pleased with them. i think there are many points of reference in the adjustment of the fleet to the fuel crisis and i hope that these new measures will help to avoid a cold reorganization of the sector.
in writing. the pvda delegation voted in favour of the agreement with mauritania, not because it is a good agreement, but because it is a small improvement on the existing situation (less catches). in general, we are against these agreements because they deprive developing countries of their sources of food and income. in the case of mauritania, it is even more distressing that development money is being used to support fisheries interests. what a disgrace!
i know that i can never be accused of being a tory, but i too voted against the european arrest warrant. the reason for this is not that i am against extradition, that suspects are transferred from one country to another. actually, i'm very much in favor of that. my only problem was that i felt we had not adequately addressed the rights of those defendants and that we should have done so at the same time. the procedural rights of defendants were not regulated. despite the energy and the wonderful proposals we are going to discuss here today, and which i am in favour of, we still have not got through that proposal, which has been on the table for years and which is a crucial element in creating trust between member states and thus also in facilitating extradition. i would like to hear from minister dati whether she considers that proposal to be so crucial to our european cooperation, what points are still being worked out in the council and whether there is any possibility that in this vigorous french presidency there will be any shots fired in this dossier on the rights of suspects. this is necessary to facilitate the handover. as regards the in absentia judgments, it is good that the requirements for surrender are set out as they are now. the question is: are they enough? the council's political agreement might suggest that you should be given a new trial, but that an appeal is also sufficient. can minister dati confirm to me that everyone is really entitled to a new trial? the court of justice has already ruled that the right to a fair hearing is not a right which is guaranteed by the treaty. so i was interested to know if people do have a right to a whole new trial and not just an appeal. one last point, and i'll make it short: we hear a lot about the cases that are needed to facilitate the operation of the investigating authorities. we hear too little - or it is disorganized - about the situation with the gaps in the field of defence, precisely because of european cooperation. i hope that we will be able to establish a eurorights panel, an ombudsman panel, to see what gaps there are in the field of defence, so that we can also solve them together.
madam president, this is just to react to the british sceptics because i agree with them that we should not make legislation on the basis of the lowest common denominator. the thing is, however, that you then have to think about how you want to make legislation, because if we also agree that we want to have a common approach in catching criminals, then you cannot make legislation through unanimity. that is why everything is now stuck in council. but i also expect their help in coming up with a decision-making process with qualified majority voting (qmv), because otherwise we are stuck. either you isolate yourself and do not want to cooperate in the field of justice, or we go over to qmv, because that is the only way we can make really substantial, meaningful legislation.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her generally balanced work. i would therefore like to leave the small talk about some details to what it is. and, to be perfectly honest, the evaluation is already pretty dated. priority no 1 is, at least as far as alde is concerned, to reconcile the data available from the member states. only then can there be a genuinely good evaluation and therefore an effective assessment. the member states must really do something about this, and of course with the necessary guidance from the european commission. it is important to emphasize - and i am clearly putting a different point of view than martine roure here - that the transfer data obtained do not allow us to conclude that the dublin system as such leads to a disproportionate transfer burden for the member states at the european external borders. of course - and this is what the rapporteur and the commissioner said - the geographical position of these member states means that they are faced with a considerable burden. that is precisely why alde has been advocating for a long time, in addition to the dublin system, a mandatory burden sharing mechanism, in financial terms, in material terms, but also in terms of the deployment of manpower on the ground. the 27 member states are all responsible for what happens at the eu's external borders. i am therefore very curious, commissioner, to know what exactly you mean by the temporary suspension. what does it entail? does it mean that the asylum seeker can choose the member state of his choice, that he can move freely? that would seriously undermine the political message of the dublin system. in short, simply commit to the mandatory solidarity mechanism that we have been advocating for all this time. finally, if the eu is to maintain its credibility, there must be a genuine and consistent level of protection in all 27 member states. the importance of a genuine common asylum procedure and associated status cannot be overstated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the facts described in the report are disturbing. while the european commission continues to launch new initiatives in the field of asylum and legal immigration, there appears to be a lack of control over implementation. a cost calculation, data on asylum applications and the processing of personal data are not adequate. i find that a disturbing conclusion. if the dublin system is not working properly, what will happen to the new initiatives on migration? can the house be sure that the council and the commission are seriously considering a cost-calculation? is the protection of personal data taken seriously? i would like to hear what the council concludes from mr lambert's report. it is clear to me that the dublin system is not yet perfect. can the council verify that the exchange of information is functioning properly in the new initiatives in the field of asylum and migration?
i would like to add that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. we have spoken with one voice and have maintained calm. but the eu - and this is also reflected in today's statement - has made it clear that what has happened there, and in particular the reaction of russia, is not acceptable and that russia's disproportionate reaction to the military developments in georgia must be condemned. at the same time, all the parties say that the use of military force is not the right solution, and i also see this as an implicit criticism of the behaviour of the georgian government, which has started military action. this reaction also shows that we think, and rightly so, that if we do not solve the problems in europe, that is not in accordance with the security agreements we have and which were made in the past around the problems with south ossetia and abkhazia in georgia. i also disagree with the statement by the russian foreign minister, mr lavrov, that the way russia has reacted sets the tone for russia's new foreign policy in the region around russia. i think the european union should do everything possible to convince mr lavrov and the russian government that this is not the way we try to solve things in europe or to advance our interests. cooperation is the key, not unilateralism. i remember discussions over the last few years about the bush administration's actions. i hope we don't get into the same argument with russia. that is why it is so important that the council, led by the french president, has today called attention to and emphasized that six-point plan, in particular the return to the military status quo ante. it is therefore essential that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future status of south ossetia and abkhazia, and that the european union should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future status of the two separatist states. that is also the purpose of a mission to moscow next week at the highest level, which will have to put pressure on moscow once again to implement these six points. under the circumstances, it makes sense that it was said: i am not going to go into the details of the new partnership agreement until there is clarity and agreement on its implementation. this crisis places high demands on the european union. we are rightly taking the lead in finding solutions. there is no alternative. nato cannot do it, the osce is too weak, america does not have the position we have, the un cannot play a mediating role because of the blockades in the security council. today's summit was unanimous, let's keep it that way.
president, the naked russian show of force on georgian territory today seeks to legitimize a double ethnic cleansing, in abkhazia in the early 1990s and in south ossetia last august, and also bases itself on the mass issuing of russian passports in the said areas. what can and should the european union do to counter this brutal resurgence of imperialist ideas in kremlin policy? a deeper and stronger european 'yes', transatlantic commitment to our eastern neighbours in line with the swedish-polish proposal for an eastern partnership. i am grateful to commissioner ferrero-waldner for speaking out clearly on this. the current situation in georgia is also an acute stimulus for the member states to take a real serious and urgent approach to a common external energy policy, with energy diversification. this naturally includes pipelines that are under the unchallenged control of the sovereign states through which they flow.
mr president, the main focus of attention is on russian military action in georgia. the possible use of cluster bombs and the occupation of a port city outside the disputed area are rightly cause for outrage. in my view, this does not apply to the protection of south ossetia and abkhazia. these two areas have not been part of georgia since the break-up of the soviet union. most of the inhabitants of these two countries do not want to be subordinated to georgia under any conditions, just as most of the inhabitants of kosovo do not want to belong to serbia under any conditions. within those countries, they would be second-class citizens. equal rights and democracy for these people are only possible if their separateness is no longer called into question and if they have a guarantee against military invasion from outside. in short, there is every reason to criticize russia, but not because it is finally recognizing the de facto independence of these two states. kosovo could not be a unique case.... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to join the previous speakers in making two points in particular. one is how we ensure that there is a genuine comprehensive and democratic process of consultation involving not only this parliament but also national parliaments and in which all parties concerned can be consulted. i am particularly concerned about whether this will be balanced and whether, for example, consumer organisations, smes, trade unions and others will be able to bring in the expertise and pay to really play a part in that consultation process. the commission has a responsibility in this respect and i would therefore like to ask the commission how it intends to support this. i would ask the house to support an amendment we are tabled on this subject. the other point concerns the breadth of the selection. i wonder whether we should be making an advance on this by excluding certain matters in advance in paragraph 12. it makes more sense to keep those cases open now.
mr president, i welcome the long-awaited proposal on completion of the anti-discrimination package, which means that we can finally end the hierarchy of rights. a european union in which some europeans are more equal than others has failed in its mission. i completely concur with the wise words of gérard deprez: the directive needs substantial improvement. it contains far too many escape clauses, which risk codifying existing discriminatory practices rather than ending them. family law and public order are, and remain, a national competence, but in practice they are being used – or misused – as a pretext for discrimination, mainly against homosexuals. it is a shame that the commission seems to be condoning this. freedom of religion is a fundamental right and one that i will defend ferociously, but it is an individual right: it is not a collective right for certain groups that entitles them to discriminate and not apply the law. finally, i would like to add that, ironically, this package seems to provide a higher level of protection against discrimination on all grounds apart from gender discrimination. the gap between the directive on gender discrimination and this directive will have to be closed.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister and commissioner, the commission's social agenda includes the long-awaited proposal on european works councils, alongside welcome proposals on anti-discrimination and cross-border healthcare. the commission also opposes the revision of the posting of workers directive, which has come under heavy criticism following some highly controversial judgments by the european court of justice. i want to touch briefly on both topics. first of all, the european right of workers to information and consultation. we all know what it's hanging on to. the commission has also proposed that the european works council be established in the member states. i very much regret that the commission has failed to propose a policy of sanctions for non-compliance. i also think that the subsidiary rules fall short of the desirable situation, which has been agreed in good examples, namely, several regular meetings a year, which can be well prepared with the necessary training and support. one meeting a year is little more than symbolic politics, and the social dialogue in the company is far too important for that. secondly, the secondment directive. the first limitation imposed by the european court on the terms and conditions of employment in force in a member state appeared to be a policy change in european law initiated by the court without the support of the european legislator. the commission has also been deliberately trying to dismantle the principles contained in the directive, following the luxembourg case. what was once intended as a directive to protect workers against exploitation and unfair competition in the case of crossborder provision of services has thus become, through the action of the court and the commission, a threat to the obligations in force in a member state concerning the terms and conditions of employment to be respected. the commission should take up its legislative role in this area again and ensure that member states are able to continue to apply their generally applicable rules on labour law and collective agreements in the future.
in writing. - i voted against the report by the rapporteur, mr franca, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to criminal decisions, because it seeks to harmonise criminal law at european level. i believe that criminal law is a matter for the member states and not for the eu. there is therefore no need for harmonisation.
in writing. - i voted against the report by the rapporteur, mr franca, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to criminal decisions, because it seeks to achieve the harmonization of criminal law at european level. i believe that criminal law is a matter for the member states and not for the eu. of course, i'm all for the right to proper representation in the defense. however, there is no need for harmonization.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, this package contains good proposals in itself for the protection of the rights and privacy of consumers, but unfortunately it is incoherent and therefore creates legal uncertainty for both companies and users because the scope is completely unclear. i feel that the commission has been guided more by the internal institutional structures and the legal basis than by reality. because what are we talking about, exactly? is this about the phone? that's totally outdated! or is it about cell phone? what is skype? what are pay-by-phone services? is that a telecom, too? what about rfid networks? that remains unclear. why are there rules on reporting breaches for telecom and internet providers but not for banks, insurance companies or social services, for example, which often use the same data? what if the personal data collected by one company is used by another, for example by public authorities, the police, the judiciary, as laid down in the data retention directive? who is responsible for that data? what's the citizen's interest in that? where can i go as a citizen? finally, i think that we must urgently begin to discuss with the united states transatlantic and global standards in this area.
draft report by the committee on culture and education. - president, commissioner reding has once again shown her strength with the telecom package. i have worked constructively with mrs toia on the commission's proposal on the digital dividend from the committee on culture and education. i would also like to thank the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, mrs niebler, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, for the good cooperation. the committee on culture and education considers radio and television to be essential means of disseminating culture and language. the switchover from analogue to digital television is currently freeing up space in the spectrum. these frequencies are of great interest to mobile telephone and broadband internet providers. the committee on culture and education is not opposed to technological innovation, but it wants to protect the rights of the current users, namely the public and commercial broadcasters. the cultural and linguistic diversity of broadcasting must be adequately safeguarded, and the interests of consumers and their investment in television equipment must be safeguarded.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. i imagine it like this, suppose a scouting mission comes from the planet mars. they come to earth and in preparation they only watch commercials to get a picture of humanity on earth. and then they come here and they find, to their amazement, that women are not just interested in cleaning products and not just sitting around all day waiting for their husband to come home from work, that women are independent and intelligent and make their own money and therefore are also consumers, and that you also have other types of families on earth that you never see in advertising, like single-parent families or a gay couple with children, or an immigrant family, or for example, someone in a wheelchair or someone with a speech impediment. you never see that in advertising. so i agree with the rapporteur on that point. but having said that, i agree with the words of commissioner reding and also my colleague from the epp: there's always such a thing as free speech. i do not think we should interfere in any way with the content of advertising. better is best practice, and i'm not allowed to mention brands here, but i'm thinking of an italian fashion brand that has been doing nothing but breaking taboos for 20 years, and other products as well. the report is also too broad, because the title says 'marketing and advertising', but it also covers school textbooks, television, the internet, video games and much more. i think, frankly, that the eu should keep its hands off this. there's also a little bit about ads for sex services. that's way out of line. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not forced to accept the new rules. finally, if you look at the image of women that has been portrayed in advertising for the last 50 years, i am satisfied to say that women are much smarter than we think. they do not let advertising stop them from becoming self-employed. finally, if we really want to do something, i have two concrete proposals. firstly, if we do not like the advertising, we will go on strike as consumers, and secondly, i propose that at least one woman be appointed to one of the four top posts in the european union.
i would like to thank mr parish very much and i can support him fully in what he has said. it's been proven that cloning causes animal suffering, and that's the conclusion the efsa came to. if we allow cloning of animals for food production, we face the following problems in addition to animal suffering and ethical concerns: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of food and to improve the quality of the food we eat. i am therefore rather outraged that the commission even dares to propose that cloning be included in the definition of the novel food regulation. it is an indirect indication that it may be in favour of cloning animals for food production. i therefore urge the commission to reconsider its position in this report. in view of all the objections, i also call on the commission to come forward without delay with proposals for a total ban on animal cloning.
in writing. the european union is also calling for the release of all political prisoners and for the release of all political prisoners. what i reject in this resolution is the side-stepping for georgia and the attempt to punish, isolate and encircle russia by nato for recognising the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia. a very large proportion of the present states in europe have been created by de facto secession from another state, a unilateral declaration of independence and the eventual recognition by other states. most european states were created after 1830, especially in waves after 1918 and 1991. kosovo was the most recent example. there is no reason to make kosovo's history an exception, or to pretend that this is the last time a new state will be created. it's never the last time. as long as the inhabitants of a territory in the majority find the ruling state useless or even threatening because they perceive it as a foreign domination, new states will continue to emerge. let us recognize that the people of abkhazia and south ossetia do not want to be subordinate to georgia.
the rapporteur believes that the european sanctions policy should be evaluated first and reassessed second (see paragraph 11). european action through the imposition of sanctions can only have constructive value if the human rights situation in the partner country concerned is actually improving. a thorough evaluation is therefore certainly important to examine the effectiveness of sanctions policy. the council and the commission must, however, enter into a vigorous debate on the use of sanctions policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i wonder whether unanimous sanctions are even possible, given the diversity of member states within the union, and i am thinking here of the case of cuba, but also of zimbabwe. in view of the possibility of reassessing the sanctions policy, which mr flautre also advocates, it is doubtful whether the sanctions policy is such an appropriate instrument. in short, to improve the situation in the union's partner countries in the field of security and human rights, it is important to think about the right instrument. for example, can serious violations of religious freedom in china and india give rise to real formal action by the european union? the question of reviewing european action in cases of this kind is more important at the moment than any premature reassessment of sanctions policy. i hope, moreover, that if a number of amendments are not adopted, i shall support the flautre report.
mr president, sanctions were a suitable means of gradually putting an end to the worst forms of colonial domination and to the apartheid regimes in south africa and southern rhodesia. in the past it has always been the opponents of change who have rejected sanctions and have mainly called attention to the negative side effects. on the other hand, the representatives of the poor and the oppressed in those countries pointed out that they accepted the disadvantages of the boycott as the price to be paid for their liberation. since the long economic boycott against the atrocious regime of saddam hussein in iraq, we know that such a boycott can sometimes also lead to the inhabitants of such a country becoming isolated, afraid of the outside world and supporting their government. a boycott certainly does not help to impose the wishes of the outside world against the wishes of domestic public opinion. it is and remains a suitable instrument to support the suppressed public opinion and the struggle for improvement in a country. if we make that distinction clearly, sanctions will remain a useful tool for achieving greater equality and democracy.
i am a member of parliament for nine years now and in the meantime i have had two children. two and almost eight now. of course, pregnancy is always exciting, you always wonder if the baby will be born perfectly healthy, but to be honest, in both of those pregnancies, i never wondered if i would survive. what a tremendous luxury that is! the figures have already been mentioned: in europe, fewer than 1 in 3800 women die from the consequences of pregnancy. in other countries in africa, much more. 1 in 16. in niger, a figure of 1 in 7 is mentioned. it's caused by unsafe abortions. yeah, i wish they weren't, but then there's got to be something else, like birth control or the men having to abstain. it's caused by no or late medical attention, it's caused by too many pregnancies in a row and also at too young an age. the very large differences between the situation in europe and in many of those other countries show that investment pays off. clearly, investing in health care is reducing maternal mortality. yet very little is happening in this area. in 1987 about half a million women died every year from pregnancy, and in 2008 the number is the same, and it's still very disappointing. i won't hide my cynicism. i think there's a lot more focus on fighting aids because aids kills men, too, that's how i think about it. i am encouraged by the stories of commissioner ferrero-waldner, whom i would like to thank very much for her contribution, and also by those of president jouyet. there's a clear link between maternal mortality and self-determination. according to recent studies, some 200 million women in developing countries would like very much to have fewer children, but half lack access to contraception and sex education. that leads to 52 million unwanted pregnancies a year, and we have to deal with that. the fight against hunger and poverty, according to kofi annan, is hopeless in advance if the international community fails to strengthen women's rights. we, the european union, are uniquely placed to strengthen the call for equal rights for women worldwide. we want to, but we're also avoiding our real responsibility. that is why i want to call for a european women's rights envoy. a majority of this parliament has already embraced this and i ask the commissioner to support it. this will be a top diplomat who can speak out or mediate on behalf of the eu when violence against women occurs, who will make proposals to the council of ministers and the european commission and who will be accountable to the european parliament. it is an engine we need, a dynamic, someone who will ensure that we take these women's rights into account in all our proposals because it is so crucial. mr president, i have already put this proposal to someone in the french presidency. he said he thought it was interesting. i'd like to ask you what you're going to do with it. i have the proposal here, also in french and german. i'm going to hand it over to you, and i really hope that this female ambassador comes, because we really need that engine to make real change.
i will not hide from you, mr president, that i find it difficult to make a coherent speech here after hearing what has been said by the gentlemen from that side of the house. and that's something that strikes me very deeply, also as a woman, because it's about me and it's about the other women in this room. because what we are talking about is not a medical problem, it is not a financial problem (though i am grateful for the pledges of more money) but it is a social problem. it's a problem of society's attitude towards women. a society that still treats women all over the world as second-class citizens. i think it is a very good thing that the commission has taken this decision, and i think that it is a very good thing that the commission has taken this decision. i can't believe that. no woman wants an abortion, no woman! but if there's no other choice, then at least it has to be safe and legal. that's a woman's right. i am very pleased that the council of europe has supported this. if we don't acknowledge that, we'll be crying crocodile tears in this room. so i call on everyone in this house to vote for the amendments condemning the so-called gag rule in the united states and also the vatican's ban on condoms, let me just say it out loud, because they are directly responsible for millions of deaths and i think that parliament should condemn that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, ports in europe are an engine for the economy. as much as 90% of europe's international trade passes through its ports. as commissioner for international trade, you must address that. every year, over 3 million tons of goods are shipped from all over the world. more than half a million europeans find work in ports. the growth rates are still considerable. growth brings opportunities, but also challenges: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. that is why it is so important that europe does not bother the ports, but rather helps and solves problems. we do not need a directive on port services, we do not need legislation, but we do need clear guidelines. it is important that the european commission should speed up the process of drawing up guidelines on unclear and sometimes even contradictory environmental legislation. vague terminology and conflicting definitions hamper legal appeals and put important projects on hold. the commission has not yet given a date for the presentation of these guidelines. can the commission clarify this tonight? it is also important to have guidelines for state aid. equal conditions of competition between european ports are an essential condition. transparency requirements are also important for ports. the epp-ed group supports the european commission and is opposed to maintaining thresholds as our rapporteur wants. so we shall vote against those parts of the report. we also vote against the gue/ngl amendments because they are against good proposals from the greek government and it is wrong to try to undermine them through the european parliament. my greek colleague will deal with this later.
i would like to thank mr ortuondo larrea for his report on european port policy. the report is a good example of the need to put an end to unfair competition between european ports. it is unacceptable that one european port should be self-sufficient in commercial terms while the other european port is dependent on public support. my first request to the european commission is related to this. can commissioner mandelson promise to publish the guidelines on state aid to ports before the end of 2008? i would also urge the european commission to publish guidelines on the implementation of community environmental legislation before 2008. the lack of clarity and transparency in this area is currently hampering the development of european ports.
president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i think that there is now a proposal which is better than what was presented last time. there is much more room for decentralizing responsibilities. the role of the member states is also increasing, and i would like to discuss this again as a member of the committee on regional policy. i am surprised that the position of the ports is clearly defined, but that at the same time the necessary connection with the hinterland is not provided for in certain situations. i would like to give the example of antwerp here in belgium and the ruhr area. for years there has been talk of the activation of the iron rhine, the rail link that would finally put an end to the endless line of containers that you have on the motorway in front of you. this is ridiculous! it can be done in other ways, but this is primarily the responsibility of the national states. the same applies in the netherlands. in the netherlands we have laid the betweel line from antwerp to the ruhr area, a multi-billion investment. what do you think of my surprise? the german border is lacking the optimum connection! that's something we should talk about. on the one hand, if we see the growth of transport through the ports, these arteries, in global connectivity, we must take a more rigorous integrated approach. i know that the european commission is working on a document on territorial cohesion which must be achieved not only in western europe, the old member states, but also in the new member states and beyond. there should be more control in there. not hard legislation and regulations but a way to test each other on those responsibilities. no money from the structural funds. billions are going into port development and clusters, without proper alignment with the hinterland. this is my cue. i would like to ask the commissioner whether this is the main point of the green paper on territorial cohesion which will be presented in october.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. often, that transport is done in the most environmentally unfriendly way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the enormous growth in freight transport, which is still continuing, is due to the fact that its costs have been falling. it is not good for the environment, for safety, for working conditions and for animal welfare. my group therefore favours limiting transport growth and shifting as much as possible of the necessary remaining transport to rail and inland waterways. we find this wish expressed in a moderate form in the proposals of the european commission and in the supplementary proposals of the rapporteur, mr cramer. we do object to the possible displacement of passenger trains in favour of freight. in order not to interfere with each other, the growth of freight transport requires complementary infrastructure where necessary. i would also like to point out the problems encountered in the launch of the european single security system ertms. investments in these are useful for the future, but cause problems in the short term.
i would like to thank mr cramer for his work as rapporteur. the report looks good. i would like to stress the following points in the report. the transport of goods must be free, fair and clean, and we are working hard on this in this parliament. earlier this year, the end of the cabotage restriction was in sight. that was a good start. this report continues on that basis, and that is excellent. the rapporteur rightly points out that urban goods logistics needs a specific approach. it is of the utmost importance that european cities become cleaner. i therefore think that automated speed adjustment in cities is an excellent means and i hope that the european commission will support measures and make proposals to ensure that freight transport in cities does not have to constantly slow down and speed up. this is how we make freight transport faster and cleaner.
president. - one of the points made in the president-in-office's speech on this subject was that it is a very sensitive matter. i'm all over that. in fact, i believe i am the first speaker to say that i do not see the need for such a directive. i do not see why europe should have an additional directive. why do i think that? firstly, in the field of soil, we already have a lot of directives that affect soil health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not used for the production of waste water. all of them affect soil health. in europe - and this is the case in france and elsewhere - we are suffering from too many administrative regulations. the average farmer takes more time to fill out forms on all sorts of things than just doing his farm work. if another directive is added to it, that is too much of a good thing. we must first see what the result so far of the current directives is, whether they are not sufficient, and whether they do not contribute sufficiently to a healthy soil. the groundwater directive will not enter into force until 2009 and it is completely unnecessary to introduce a new directive before then. the commission has made a proposal and has calculated what the benefits would be. what i've missed in that whole calculation is what it costs in administrative burden for the stakeholders to do it all. again, too much time is wasted on paperwork, filling out forms, attending meetings and i don't know what else. what could possibly happen right now? the commission can play a very important role in the exchange of experience. there are certain countries which are already very far along in the process of making the soil healthy and there are other countries where this is not the case. the countries that have done so so far have done so without any help from europe. why not use these good examples for the countries which are still having problems at the moment? i think that we are facing too much administrative work at the moment and that europe and the european union in general are not making themselves more popular with the citizens by stacking one regulation on top of another and saying, 'you can do it yourself'. no, let us limit it as much as possible and take as an example the results in the member states which could serve as an example for the other countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i speak on behalf of the alde group, with regard to the kirkhope report. pursuant to rule 168, the alde group would like to make a request for referral back to committee. to be clear, there is no intention of breaking up the compromise package with the council as such, but my group does believe that a more extensive debate on the definition of a parent carrier should take place. the commission is working on a formal notice, which is most welcome. however, that does not give us the 100% clarity we need at this very moment. a proper debate should be allowed for, as well as decent consultation of our legal services. there is no rush to put this matter to the vote at this very moment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. discrimination and violence are a relic of a time before the judeo-christian-islamic civilization, when the equality of all people was not yet assumed. tanzania has 150,000 inhabitants who, due to a lack of the color pigment melanin, have red eyes, pale skin, and light hair. they are seen as a product of witchcraft. many of these people are killed, after which their skins and other body parts are stripped off and used in magical rituals. because of the large number of albinos, tanzania is the main supplier of human body parts for all of africa. these terrible practices cannot be ended without active education among the common people in tanzania and across africa, better medical care and better access for albinos to leadership positions. the tanzanian government is taking measures, including the registration of all albinos, to protect them. without a change in the perception of the position of albinos, that registration could also be misused in the future to track down and eradicate these people. in europe we had a bad experience in the 1940s with the registration of endangered populations.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would say to mr lauk that he may support the report that mr dăianu and i drafted on european supervision, but there was a lack of support for it from the epp. allow me also to say something in response to the commissioner, which is that i find it unbelievable that he has not reacted to the core issues of the report. he merely told us that the commission is closely monitoring and closely following developments, and then said that hedge funds and private equity also have much positive influence, and that we should reflect on that. it is like hearing that a hurricane or tsunami is coming and being told that we should reflect on the positive aspects of water and wind! it is ridiculous. ik zal in het nederlands verdergaan want ik wil me op twee punten concentreren, die met name met het verslag van de heer lehne te maken hebben. een van die punten is het stock lending en short selling - hij heeft het zelf ook al aangesneden. dit is natuurlijk typisch een voorbeeld van de afgelopen tijd waarin je ziet dat de commissie achter de feiten aanloopt. wij hadden veel eerder al aan de orde gesteld dat er op het punt van stock lending, het lenen en uitlenen van aandelen, iets zou moeten gebeuren omdat dat misbruikt werd in campagnes van hedge funds tegen bedrijven. nu eindelijk hebben de financiële markttoezichthouders, een aantal afzonderlijke toezichthouders in de afzonderlijke landen, dat gedaan. het gaat hier niet om een gecoördineerde europese actie. dergelijke initiatieven moeten dan gewoon weer uit de nationale kanalen komen. wij hadden dit kunnen vóór zijn en hadden wellicht ook een aantal defaults, een aantal banken of verzekeringsmaatschappijen die omgevallen zijn, kunnen voorkomen als wij hiervoor adequate maatregelen gehad hadden. het illustreert ook nog eens dat dit soort zaken over de sectoren heen gaan en dat sectortoezicht alleen voor de banken, alleen voor de verzekeringsmaatschappen, alleen voor de effectenhandel, niet volstaat. dergelijk toezicht moet je echt bundelen en ervoor zorgen dat op die effecten over en weer geanticipeerd wordt en dat voorkomen wordt dat dit soort zaken plaatsvinden. het andere punt zijn de beloningssystemen. in het verslag hebben wij aangegeven dat het van groot belang is dat die aan banden gelegd worden en dat in de aandeelhoudersvergaderingen moeten kunnen gestemd worden over het beloningsbeleid. ik heb met vreugde gezien dat mijn democratische collega's in het congres bij de discussie deze week over het noodfonds dat er in vs komt, willen dat een van de voorwaarden voor het lenen uit dat fonds is dat de exorbitante salarissen en bonussen van managers aan banden gelegd moeten worden. het zou toch te gek zijn dat goldman sachs en morgan stanley, die zich nu onder dat toezicht stellen en ook gebruik willen maken van die publieke middelen, doorgaan met die miljoenenbonussen. het is gepast is dat wij in europa ook verder gaan dan de aanbeveling van een paar jaar geleden. ik wil de commissaris vragen wat hij op dit punt gaat ondernemen, want het is echt tijd voor actie.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the un is currently meeting in new york on the millennium development goals. if nothing changes, we won't make it in 2015. if we do that, we will not have reduced poverty by half, we will not have dramatically reduced maternal mortality, we will not have all children going to primary school. in fact, there are calls to set aside the mdgs. it's not working. it's called "aid fatigue". it's another word for cynicism and short-sighted self-interest. too little help can't get you anywhere. and yes, aid projects often fail. and that's the problem. too little help is not enough. it's like a football coach giving his team only right-handed shoes. after dozens of games, he says, you're losing to everybody, this is never gonna work. i'm done with this, you can keep the shoes and figure it out on your own. there are plenty of countries where aid is successful. the scale of the aid is important. in rwanda, a lot of aid has been given after the genocide. the country itself has risen admirably. there is much criticism - and i have it for kagame - but still, after the horror of 1994, rwanda is giving a lesson in life to the whole world. however, without the aid, this economic growth would have been less significant. in mozambique too, aid is successful and there are many other examples. since the millennium development goals were set, 29 million children have found their way to primary school. if the world would just stick to its own agreements, there would be no food crisis. if every rich country spent 0.7% of its gross national product on development aid, the number of malnourished children would not rise again after years of decline. the european parliament will therefore use this report to make a strong appeal to the member states to honour their own commitments, especially those member states which are lagging behind, such as france, germany, the united kingdom and italy, to name only the large member states. the aid must be increased until 2015, in a clear timetable, in equal steps. no backloading, because a late catch-up after a series of small steps up, deprives the poor countries of 17 billion euros in aid until 2015. one thing must be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it takes more than that. the european union must continue to invest in peace and security, good governance and respect for human rights. in kenya, thanks to european pressure, this has been achieved, with raila odinga now prime minister. in eastern chad, the situation is much more difficult for eufor. but it's essential now to start tying private money flows to public goals. access to credit is the key. loans are rarely reserved for the poorest and that needs to change. with development as the goal, equal access for women and men, no usury, investing in opportunities for small entrepreneurs who are strong networkers, connected to local organizations. private banks do not automatically think of these conditions and are less likely to grant loans to women than to men. the european union can have a huge impact here with credit guarantees. the european investment bank will also have to provide much more support to micro-credit institutions than it does now. it is only then that people will really have the opportunity to demonstrate their capacities and build their own existence as autonomous, independent citizens. the poor countries must also be given more influence in the imf. in addition, more money must be made available for the effects of climate change with a share of the auctions of co2 allowances. the polluter pays, the poor countries are not responsible for global warming. the aid will also have to be directed towards renewable energy. development policy is at the heart of the european union. the european union must be a solidary player on the world stage, each member state in its own way, but in a coherent way and with 0.7% of gross national product. that is millennium goal 8, and fulfilling that eighth promise brings those other goals a long way closer. finally, during the reading of this text, 80 people died of starvation and 50 children under five died of easily treatable diseases.
i am convinced that the council is genuinely concerned with improving the safety of citizens and that it also attaches importance to civil rights. you may be very pleased with the reports before you, but if you read them carefully you will see that we reach a very different conclusion from you. we think that the proposals you have adopted are simply not up to par and that there is a risk of infringement of civil rights. how is it that we come to a different judgment? first of all, traditional parliaments have more regard for civil rights than governments and so there is also a problem in decision-making. but parliament particularly wants to look at the effects of these decisions on society in the longer term. if we look at the relationship between government and citizens historically, we see that government has a monopoly on violence and that citizens have fundamental rights that government should not touch, except when necessary, effective and proportionate. but if the citizen is too often confronted with government action where it is not necessary or justified, his confidence and therefore his cooperation with that government will be diminished and then we have a long-term security problem. trust comes on foot, but it goes on horseback. in my view, the proposal on data protection does not provide the protection it is intended to provide and the council is moving towards the extension of the framework decision on a slippery slope. let me begin with mrs roure's report. i would like to thank mrs roure very warmly for all the years she has been guiding this report through parliament. i have a number of questions to put to the council. the proposal concerns european cooperation in the field of justice and police, i.e. services concerned with security. but i understand that it now says - perhaps you can contradict that - that the council does not consider itself bound by these proposals when essential national security interests are at stake. what interests are involved and can you give an example of a case in which you would like to throw this framework decision in the trash? another point is the sensitive data, which mrs roure herself has already mentioned. i can still understand why you'd want some of the data. but can the council explain to me what it can benefit from knowing whether someone is a member of a trade union? just give an example of when it is interesting to know whether someone is a member of the fnv in the netherlands. is that an indication of recalcitrant behavior? or in what case could this possibly play a role? the sex life? is this about active pedophilia? yes, that would be a crime, and then, of course, that would be recorded. but what kind of things do you want to know more about? as regards the transfer of data to third countries, i remember a hilarious moment during the german presidency when a council representative described the need to transfer data to iran very quickly. that was a moment when the whole house was looking at this man in amazement. he couldn't have meant it, passing information to iran! i therefore ask the council member to give us a guarantee that sensitive data will never, ever be sent to iran. and in addition to that guarantee, could you give me the article number you're basing it on? although i think the level of protection is insufficient, i think the objective is good: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. a key word to improve this cooperation is trust, and here too it is about trust. i blame the council for not doing enough to increase that trust and therefore cooperation. trust must be based on something, such as substantial data protection and rights of suspects worthy of our rule of law. but then you don't care. you've been working on the procedural rights of suspects for my entire term and we still have nothing. and where you can seriously help cooperation, you leave it behind. instead you have come up with the wild framework decision on the fight against terrorism. mrs lefrançois has written a very good report on this and i would like to thank her very much for it. my question remains: what problem does the council want to solve? the incitement to violence is prohibited in all member states, and rightly so. but now, incitement or provocation must be punishable as well. and when is it provocation or provocation? when someone writes that the united states is a rogue state, an axis of evil that must be fought? if that person also writes, "whoever is not for us is against us", is that provocation? if a western man makes an anti-islam film with the intention of hurting, does he incite an attack? or am i provoking you? ambiguous legislation is bad legislation. if you want to make incitement to violence a european crime, you have me on your side. but not with this. when you put all the language versions together, it's not even clear whether it's "provoking" or "inciting", provocation or incitement. a woman may dress provocatively, but that does not make her a rape-invited assailant. the first paragraph of article 1 is particularly worrying in this respect, stating that it does not matter whether or not terrorist offences are directly advocated for conviction. this is going way too far for my group.
mr president, to start with, on a point of order, i would like to ask the presidency of this house to write to the french presidency and indicate that we find it unacceptable that the french presidency is not available for the whole duration of such an important debate. voorzitter, terrorisme is niet uitgevonden op 11 september 2001. het bestond altijd al en zoals de vorige spreekster net al heeft opgemerkt, wordt in het trend report van europol inderdaad aangegeven dat de overgrote meerderheid van de aanslagen niet van moslimextremistische achtergrond is, maar dat het gaat om separatistisch geweld, extreem-rechts en extreem-links geweld. wat wél nieuw is sinds 2001 is dat regeringen wereldwijd de strijd tegen terrorisme aangrijpen om rechten en vrijheden van burgers in te perken. nu ben ik helemaal vóór samenwerking in de strijd tegen booswichten. ik sluit mij helemaal aan bij de woorden van manfred weber. heel vaak worden echter maatregelen genomen, zoals het inzamelen van persoonsgegevens, voor doeleinden die helemaal niets te maken hebben met terrorisme. zo worden bijvoorbeeld de pnr-gegevens gebruikt voor controle op immigratie of het bestrijden van gewone misdaad, wat op zich ook heel legitiem is, maar laten wij het beestje dan ook bij de naam noemen. de plechtige verklaringen van de raad over de burgerrechten en de privacy klinken nogal hol als de raad niet eens aanwezig is, maar vooral ook niet bereid is om de aanbevelingen van het europees parlement over te nemen, zoals neergelegd met name in het verslag-roure. misschien moet de raad dan ophouden met krokodillentranen te huilen over het ierse "nee". dan heb ik ten slotte nog twee concrete vragen. ik wilde graag van de commissie -want de raad is er niet - iets weten over de high level contact group. na twee jaar onderhandelen met gesloten deuren en zonder een mandaat dringt minister chertoff nu bij commissaris barrot aan op het tekenen van een akkoord in december. ik wil graag weten of commissaris barrot namens ons "nee" zegt. tweede vraag, er wordt namens de eu onderhandeld over een regeling waarbij de douane zonder enige uitleg en onbeperkt, ook in europa, aan de grens laptops kan doorzoeken en in beslag kan nemen. ik wil graag weten hoe dat zit.
in writing. the european parliament's vvd members voted in favour of the berman report, among other things, because it contains valuable comments on the possible role of the european investment bank in developing countries. however, the vvd members distance themselves from the 0.7% development cooperation target set in this report. it is not the quantity that counts, but the quality of development cooperation.
in writing. − it is of great importance to further explore how supervisory structures in the european union can be improved. however, mr rasmussen's report deals with the european commission's recommendations on hedge funds. i do not support the green group's amendments to the recitals for procedural reasons. the recitals are not a place for forming value judgments about the current situation on the financial markets. i voted against amendments nos 6 to 10 this morning, not because i am against european financial market surveillance but because this report is not the right place to launch this initiative. i would urge the committee on economic and monetary affairs to consider the question of financial market surveillance and the desirability of strengthening it in a european context. if there is a good report on this, it is very likely that i can still support this initiative of the green group.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the report by rasmussen on hedge funds and private equity has been watered down following the compromise negotiations between the three largest groups in the parliament. it is also regrettable that the amendments tabled by the greens and the gue/ngl group, which were directly taken from the rasmussen draft report, were not adopted during the plenary vote. in spite of this, we decided to support the report in the final vote. this is due to the urgent need and necessity to counteract harmful financial speculation and instability on the markets. in this respect, the report could be seen as a step in the right direction.
in writing. - the vvd members of the european parliament voted in favour of the ebner report, partly because it gives a good impression of the specific problems of agriculture in mountain areas. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of controls on imports of agricultural products from third countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. businessmen who want to keep their costs as low as possible may be tempted to use old, dangerous ships. they are a danger to the crew and to others and can be a serious threat to the environment. the poor working conditions, which are made possible by the choice of registration under a flag other than that of the country of ownership and the actual base of operations, also lead to disadvantages. operating costs can also be reduced by dumping ship's waste and cargo residues on board. to prevent this, it is necessary to ensure that ships of malicious operators can be definitively denied access to european ports, that anchorages outside ports are also excluded for these ships and that sufficient inspections are carried out to determine what is wrong. the port state's obligations under the international labour organisation's maritime labour convention must be strictly observed, the polluter must pay and all the rules must apply at night. the council's attempts to give such undertakings more flexibility than parliament wanted at first reading have unacceptable consequences. the council rejected the majority of parliament's 23 amendments on the inquiry into shipping accidents, which could jeopardise the independence of the inquiry. the council has also been slowing down on the protection of passengers on board ships since it refused to follow the athens convention in 2003. the common position of june 2008 limits the information obligation and liability. in the case of shipwrecks, the council is not following the proposals of the commission and parliament, which aim to ensure that a ship in distress is always received in time at an airport and that crews are protected from punishment for negligence which is not their fault. all dangerous situations and abuses in shipping must be brought to an end as soon as possible. it is therefore important that parliament, in relation to the council, also in the second reading, should stick to the line which has been set out earlier.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). although it is unfortunate that we are missing a couple of proposals, i am satisfied with the content of the package as it now stands before us and i am grateful to the rapporteurs for the work they have done. there is one part of the package that i am not satisfied with. the costa report on the liability of passenger carriers has two paragraphs which ensure that the same level of liability is imposed on inland waterway passenger carriers as on passenger carriers on the high seas. this is completely undesirable. first, there is no need. there are hardly any known cases of accidents involving passenger transport on inland waterways. and, in addition, these two paragraphs mean the end of a large proportion of the companies which transport passengers on inland waterways, because they cannot afford the associated sky-high insurance premiums, if there is any insurer who wants to offer them insurance at such a level of liability. the commission has not yet received any comments from the french authorities on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. it seems to me clear and logical that such companies are not subject to the same level of liability as large carriers of thousands of passengers by sea. we must not make a fool of ourselves by imposing on the carriers of passengers on inland waterways a towering and extremely expensive level of liability. i am also still very much dissatisfied with the way in which these paragraphs have been put back into the text. the chairman of the committee on transport should never have declared these amendments admissible, because there was already agreement between the council and parliament on this matter at first reading. for the reasons stated above, i have asked for a majority vote on paragraphs 9 and 20. i hope and expect that many colleagues will support me in rejecting these paragraphs.
mr president, mr clark, you really must look into this proposal and not just talk about other companies, because there is nothing to be gained by what you are saying. you've got it all wrong. this is about maritime security. i do not want to spend any more of my two precious minutes on this, but i will now turn to the actual contents of this package. it's been a wild ride, this maritime security package. we, as the european parliament, are putting our heels in the sand, because we want the whole package. but it seems that the council is also putting its foot down. i am the shadow rapporteur on the independent accident inquiry and the council has been very unhelpful so far. but if we both show some flexibility and add a little water to the french wine, we should be able to reach an agreement before the end of this year. the epp's main point in the independent accident investigation is that the investigation is genuinely independent. the council's position on this point is not adequate at the moment. finally, there must be one final person responsible for an inquiry, because if three member states each conduct their own inquiry, it is very unclear and not transparent for the public. so one person is ultimately responsible. thirdly, we must not only investigate rare accidents which are widely reported in the media. the epp also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. finally, i agree with what mr blokland has said about the proposal in the costa report to include inland waterway transport in the liability regime. the epp has been and remains against this. so, council, stick to that point and i hope that tomorrow amendments nos 11 and 20 will not receive a qualified majority.
i am very much against the suggestion made by mr costa that there is a link between the deaths on the seine and the fact that the epp does not want to support his proposals. that is a link which mr costa is not allowed to make, so i am strongly opposed to it.
i would also like to thank mrs caroline lucas and mr zaleski for the efforts they have made to produce this resolution. unfortunately, the trade in waste wood is still widespread in europe. the european commission's 2003 flegt action plan, which was designed to prevent illegal logging from entering europe, has had only a limited impact. it is therefore regrettable that the european commission has still not come forward with the new proposals. because bad behaviour by importers still seems to pay off because there is little action against illegal trade and no sanctions. responsible timber importers are therefore literally and figuratively paying a high price for complying with environmental and safety standards, as much cheaper illegal timber is still widely traded. the timber industry itself has already taken good initiatives, such as certification. we must support this with binding legislation, appropriate within the wto framework. i therefore also advocate that existing certification systems, which have been developed by the sector itself and also by ngos, should be recognised. we do not think that what mrs lucas wants, namely the creation of a new european institution which would also involve a lot of bureaucracy, is necessary. of course, measures must be taken on the spot to combat illegal logging in the region. we also expect the european commission to propose sanctions which should also have a preventive effect on importers of wood. because if we do not sanction companies that are acting illegally, we run the risk that this illegality will continue to pay off, and that is what we must get rid of.
president. - commissioner wallström has just spoken about reaching out to the citizen. the most visible part of the european community's action is cohesion policy, with thousands of small-scale programmes in regions and cities. we are also going to be actively reaching out to the citizens in the coming period, i am thinking in particular of the open days of regions and cities in the coming weeks here in brussels, but also of a wide range of activities in the member states. so far so good. i'm not sure. but there are also adjustments that need to be made, and i will mention two of them. first of all, there is the parliament's fervent desire to make the european solidarity fund more flexible. citizens expect quick action in the event of natural disasters, floods. we have a view on this and the european council has been blocking that debate for a few years now. let us at least see that it is unleashed. secondly, the green paper on territorial cohesion, expected in october, should lay the foundations for cohesion policy beyond 2013: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are seeing a concentration in a number of regions in europe, which is a consequence of globalisation and should be so. at the same time, however, we must have a vision of how to achieve a balanced development in europe in all areas with their own qualities in the broad range of agricultural development, r & d, ecology, etc. the single market has brought many good things and it is almost complete. however, cohesion policy is now entering a new phase. the green paper will lay the foundations for this, followed by legislative steps in the new period.
the joint motion for a resolution rightly addresses the precarious position of the christian minority in india. i would like to stress to the council and the commission that this situation, particularly in the state of orissa, is hopeless unless the causes are really tackled at their political and socioeconomic roots. on august 23 this year, saraswati, a local leader of the radical hindu vhp in orissa, was reportedly killed by maoists. the christian minority, however, had to pay the price. hindu nationalists, armed with clubs, axes and torches, went hunting for their christian fellow citizens and held horrific meetings for weeks, even in the refugee camps. this violence seems purely religious, but it has an obvious political component. the point is that in orissa, but also elsewhere in india, the hindu nationalist bjp is gaining strong support today. in its ideology there is no place for religious minorities, let alone a christian minority. council and commission, i have just heard that you are meeting the indian prime minister, mr singh, in marseille on 29 september. prime minister singh has called the outrages in orissa a national disgrace. you must speak to him about it in marseille. you must set an agenda and discuss this point in detail, namely what happens to religious intolerance and to the persecution of christians, because it is unacceptable to maintain a strategic partnership in this way.
mr president, like europe, india is a subcontinent of many peoples and languages, where efforts are being made to put an end to a past of war and oppression. yet india still has torture and death sentences and violence against the people of kashmir, who have never had the referendum that was needed after partition in 1947 to decide which state they want to belong to. in europe, the strategic partnership with india, agreed in 2004, must not be a pretext for turning a blind eye to the discrimination and the lack of rights of 170 million untouchable people who do not belong to any caste. the prime minister of india in 2007 rightly compared the plight of these dalits to apartheid in south africa. many dalits have converted to christianity or islam. the extremist opposition party bjp wants to use the upcoming elections to mobilize hindus against christians and muslims and to force dalits to resign themselves to the fact that they will be forever poor and without rights. how do we help the indian government to stop the violence and how do we ensure that eu aid reaches the dalits after the floods?
mr president, almost a year ago there was a popular uprising in burma. the repression continues. it would be a great honour for india if the government would sever its close relationship with this criminal regime in burma. more and more indians are asking for it, shocked by the regime's criminal response to the cyclone's aftermath. india has been experiencing fantastic growth in recent years with an increasing number of highly skilled people and a tremendous curiosity for innovation. india is taking a new role in the developing world, with its own everything but arms. india is a new donor. the dialogue between the european union and india is also changing and sometimes becoming more intense, as it should be between equal partners. the enormous economic growth can create better conditions and opportunities for more social justice in india. the problem of the untouchables is, unfortunately, still a painful one. the european union also wants india to comply with the ilo conventions on child labour. it's not something you can just fix. in india, whole families live off the money the children earn. but child labor is both a cause and a consequence of poverty. as long as children are working, there is too much cheap labour and the wages of adults remain low. the gap between rich and poor will remain too wide in india. working towards opportunities for all is a matter of survival, it prevents unacceptable social tensions and is a matter of justice for millions of indians. that is a joint task, within the eu, in india, in the world.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am glad that the commission has taken this initiative. i was very shocked a few months ago when my daughter, an extremely thin daughter, came home and refused to eat her second sandwich because she would become too fat. she had heard a lot in school about not being fat, but she had little idea of how to eat healthily and what a normal portion is. after all, an eight-year-old doesn't really understand when you're overweight. so it is very important to focus on talking about healthy eating and not about being overweight or obese. indeed, it is primarily the parents' job to show what is healthy and what is a balanced portion of food, and it is also the schools' job to teach this to a child and to set an example. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report, which is a very good report. we must therefore see this point reflected in the legislation on labelling. i also like to talk a lot about sports and also about the fact that children should be able to play outside. we must therefore at least recommend that spatial planning plans take better account of children's wishes to live in freedom. and in relation to food, the european commission has a pretty cool website about eu mini-chefs. this website has already been improved. the fact is that there are now pictures of vegetables, which were almost non-existent before, but almost all recipes contain meat. let's face it, animal protein is a big contributor to obesity. apart from animal welfare, the european commission should not explicitly promote meat consumption. the commission has already done so. mrs ries has just said that she is against amendment no 6 because she does not want to punish people but rather to reward them. it does not therefore want to introduce a fat tax, a higher tax on unhealthy products, but above all a lower tax on healthy products. i agree with that, but it now appears that, for example in the netherlands, all foodstuffs now fall into the low category. the chips, the lollies, etc. all now have a low vat rate. that cannot be the intention, that you grant that extra exception to unhealthy products. so it is not a question of punishing, it is a question of not rewarding, namely a lower rate of vat, products which are not healthy.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). these trans fatty acids exist in natural and industrial forms and are found in many foods. although several scientific studies have produced different results, the majority of studies indicate that there is no difference in risk between naturally occurring trans fatty acids in food and artificially added industrial trans fatty acids. both types of trans fatty acids are equally harmful when consumed in excess. i therefore think it is not appropriate to maintain this distinction in the present proposal, hence my amendment. it is also very difficult to eliminate all trans fats without other risks to public health. a ban on trans fats leads to an increase in the concentration of saturated fats, according to the uk food standard agency, among others. those saturated fatty acids are at least as harmful as trans fats. on average, humans ingest far more saturated fatty acids than the world health organization recommends as a standard. i therefore tabled amendments to limit the amount of saturated fatty acids as well, and at the same time i propose not to call for a ban on trans fatty acids, as is now stated in article 32 of the report. what would be possible, for example, is that we set a limit of, say, 2% of trans fatty acids in total energy intake. this is technically feasible and to some extent already in practice. we must avoid a trade-off between trans fats and saturated fats which does not improve the health of the consumer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister, last week i attended a presentation by my danish colleague, karen riis-jørgensen, of a new website with 'patient rights' in all the languages of the union. there was also a danish lady who had not been there for a while. she had breast cancer and didn't make it through the danish system because she had the wrong amount of tumors. she would have been treated if she had five tumors, but she had seven, and she didn't meet the criteria. so somehow she had to have two tumors removed before she could be helped. in short, an endless magic trick. eventually she was able to get help in germany. she did, she borrowed money from family, friends, and went to germany where she was helped. now the seeds are gone. she's cured, insofar as you can say you're cured of cancer. the battle that someone like that, that one person, has to fight with a system at a time when you're already sick, at a time when you're as weak as you can be, is inhuman. and then we say, we put the system above the patient. i find that totally unacceptable! in the end, the danes did pay for a good part of the treatment, so everything has turned out positively. but what happened to this lady is not an exception, it happens all too often. the european commission's proposal is therefore a major step forward in helping these patients and my group would like to support it. we must also ensure that this debate does not become an ideological debate. this is not another health services directive. this is not about how we are going to reform health in the european union. this is not a question of whether or not to let the free market run wild on health. it is not a question of subsidiarity for me either. it is not a question of whether the member states or the union win. no, it's about whether or not the patient wins here. otherwise, we'll just leave it at that. we must certainly talk about all these other things, perhaps have a good debate about them during the election campaign, but that is not the point, not for me and not for my own group. we do not want to harmonize health, and this is not the time for that, and perhaps it is not possible at all. we must, however, learn to exploit the opportunities offered by the european union, the economies of scale we have, so that we can finally have truly specialised help for rare diseases. we have had this opportunity for many years, of course, but we can now really make use of it and we must seize it. in conclusion, last week there was also a meeting in this house hosted by mr dagmar berend, where the european patient forum presented its manifesto. i'm glad that the patients are also fisting at the door, because we need the patients' input. we are now going to decide democratically where the lawyers have already made a headway. but now we are taking the decision where it really belongs, namely with the people's representatives.
i am very pleased that our former colleague, mrs roselyn bachelot, is here today, and once again she is showing that the european citizen is at the heart of the matter. because that's what it says in this legislation. i would also like to compliment the commissioner, who has ensured that this very difficult piece of legislation is finally put in place. we, as the european parliament, as the european commission, as the council, are doing something for people with this legislation. this directive provides legal support for mobility and at the same time it provides legal support for the initiatives already in place for crossborder care. however, if i compare this directive with the previous copies, the withheld versions, i find that the focus is now more on patient mobility and less on health services, and that is to satisfy member states. i would like to make a critical remark on this. border regions which have already taken some good initiatives on crossborder care - i mention for example the cooperation between the university hospital aachen and the maastricht academic hospital in my own region, the province of limburg, which would also be a very welcome pilot area in that euregio meuse-rhine - are, by no longer focusing on the services themselves, becoming far too dependent on mobility alone and therefore also on the arbitrariness of insurers or the will or unwillingness of national governments. we need to look at article 13 again to see how we can get regions to work together much more. and i would also like to take this opportunity to say, commissioner, that we in the meuse-rhine euroregion would like to be a pilot region. secondly, the involvement of patients in the establishment of the national coordination points. mrs schmidt in germany has taken a good initiative in this respect and we must look at how we can integrate this more. another point is the list of 'in-patient outpatients', which is intended to exclude certain operations from this directive. this too must be carefully considered, because it is not possible that cooperatives such as those i have just mentioned will be excluded from the list in the future because of an overly strict interpretation. it is very important to know that, through good cooperation, top-quality medical care does not become more expensive, but simply cheaper and more available to people. that's what we're doing it for.
i am here because i am concerned. we are talking today about the european schools and i am grateful to mrs hennicot for that. i would like to draw commissioner kallas' attention to a specific aspect of european schools, namely religious education. i have heard several disturbing reports in the past year. as you all know, the governing body of the european schools decided last year that there must be at least seven pupils with the same language in order to teach a subject in the mother tongue. for general subjects such as geography and mathematics, this rule is not a problem, but for religious education it is quite different. this increase in the border has led to the fact that there are now european schools where pupils are unable to receive any religious instruction in their own language. i am very concerned about this, especially when it comes to primary education. i think it is very important to talk about religion, to talk about and to learn about the values and norms that we all in europe so emphasize. religion is all about feeling, and as we all know, it's best for children to express their feelings and emotions in their mother tongue. i find it unacceptable that, depending on language and nationality, some pupils have the opportunity to receive religious instruction in their own language and others do not. i therefore ask the commissioner to pay attention and to draw a clear line here. every pupil, regardless of whether he or she is a native speaker of english, german or dutch, should have the same opportunities and the same quality of education. i would also like to draw attention to the position of the teachers, in addition to the pupils. the 'minimum of seven' rule raises the question of whether there are enough pupils each year and makes it uncertain for teachers whether religious instruction will be given the following school year. this uncertainty of occupation has consequences for finding good teachers for religious education in all languages. i ask the commission to support the importance of religious education for parents and pupils in european schools and to support the continuation of religious education in the mother tongue in european schools.
mr president, the citizens are looking to europe for protection, stability and unity. it is precisely at this moment that a strong europe is more important than ever. everyone agrees that action was needed and it is good that it was taken quickly. it was inevitable. but there are a number of developments which i find worrying and i also detect a certain ideology behind some of the actions. a number of people have already been celebrating the death of capitalism here. but to be honest, politicians are not bankers. emergency measures, yes, but i also see a number of operations which amount to a mere nationalization of banks. frankly, there are some bankers who are clearly no longer to be trusted and to whom we cannot give our savings. but ask yourself, would you trust your savings to politicians as bankers? mr schulz, for example? now, not me. the crisis must not be used to evade, weaken or even abolish the rules. i find the call for flexible application of competition policy or the stability and growth pact extremely worrying. it is these very rules that have made europe so robust. i have a specific question to the commission - and i note with regret that mr barroso does not seem to find the debate interesting enough to stay until the end. the dutch minister for finance stated this afternoon in the parliamentary debate in the lower house that the purchase of fortis and abn-amro - not only the bank but also the non-systemically important components such as insurance - had not been notified as a state aid operation. i would therefore like to know how the commission intends to deal with cases of this kind in the future. the commissioner kroes said last monday - and i agree with him - that the competition rules and the stability pact apply without reservation. how do we deal with these kinds of cases? what will happen if it is found that the state aid rules have been breached?
the question is, mr president, whether this financial crisis will lead to further european integration or whether it will be the opposite. in my view, a crisis of this magnitude can only be tackled at european level. this should lead to further european integration. but that requires leadership. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. so far, the response to the financial crisis has been largely in the hands of the member states, and i welcome that, for example in the case of the response to the crisis at fortis. the commission, however, remained silent. in my view, the financial crisis is caused by the rapid innovation in the financial sector in recent years. banking products are packaged in a way that could lead to quick profits, but also to great risks. it is only that these risks were not and sometimes still are not apparent. it is terribly difficult for experts to make a good estimate and thus to assess the value of these new financial products. the commission must therefore now come up with measures to increase the transparency of financial products and to improve the governance of banks. the commission should also put forward measures to improve supervision and make proposals to strengthen cooperation between central banks and other supervisors. this is the position which parliament will express in the report on the follow-up to lamfalussy and the future supervisory structure for the financial sector, which we shall be discussing shortly. i am also very sorry that the socialists have refrained from voting on such an important report in the committee. i wonder if they will abstain again tomorrow. the crisis shows the importance of europe. the fact that european governments operate separately in this area can lead to state aid and to the disadvantage of foreign savers, customers and investors. only a european response can be a full-fledged response to the crisis and that is why the commission must take the lead today.
rapporteur. − mr president, since 2002 i have been dealing with the issue of stability and supervision on the financial markets. already at that time, in a report for parliament on prudential supervision, i pleaded for a strong system of european supervision comparable to the european system of central banks. thank god we have the euro and the ecb in these turbulent times, but it is all the more embarrassing that we do not have this strong supervisory architecture. at the time i could not get a majority of parliament behind a revolutionary reform; everyone was speaking about evolution. nevertheless, when i have spoken over the years with a number of supervisors and other high-level representatives from the industry and supervision, people told me: ‘we cannot say this publicly, but you are right that something more has to happen; a real crisis situation will show that this is not sufficient’. so we needed a crisis to create the sense of urgency. needless to say, i would have preferred to avoid such a crisis and i wish that we had been better prepared. but the crisis is there now and the tsunami that mr mccreevy still did not want to look at some weeks ago, when we dealt with the rasmussen and lehne reports, is there and it is unprecedentedly heavy, i would say. i would now expect this momentum to be there, but i am disappointed and embarrassed that what we are doing in the european union is too little, too late. the whole world is watching but we are not managing to really get a common approach. even economists and commentators that were the cheerleaders of this wonderful innovative financial engineering that should not be hindered by regulation are almost unanimous in their disappointment at what europe’s leaders have done so far. i could refer to the editorial in yesterday’s financial times for instance, where they say: ‘thus far, europe’s leaders have displayed a purely declaratory brand of unity, jointly proclaiming that they will each take care of the problems in their own back yards.’ so the financial times also concluded that we need a conductor and not only solo singers. tomorrow i think there is an opportunity for parliament to show that we not only sing our own arias of regret and anger and play the blame game, but we can make a real contribution constructively to establish leadership and pick up on very concrete proposals that the european commission could immediately initiate. it may look quite technical for many other members of parliament but i can assure you that these have been well thought through and well prepared by us in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it only needs leadership and courage from you, commissioner, to give the green light and to start up the process. you should not listen too much to the city lobbyists keeping you from doing things, and of course you should listen to experts – but the political responsibility is with you to take these initiatives. mr barroso has already mentioned some short-term measures. i am happy with what he said about a wise persons’ group but, here again, this was something that we in parliament proposed two years ago, and we did not get your support for this. in relation to the crd proposals, the measures for the credit-rating agencies: it is not quite clear to me what measures you are going to present on the recommendation on executive pay. here, i hope, you are not listening only to the weak proposals of the ecofin council but that you are prepared to move a bit further. finally, on the supervision: it is not only long-term measures for the wise persons’ group; we should already start with something now. concerning my amendments 5, 6 and 7: i hope there will be support for a proposal which immediately leads to an independent chair and vice-chair for the european supervisory structure.
rapporteur. − madam president, there is a lot of material for debate. if i may quote the commissioner on some of the things that he said, i should like to start with his statement that, in times of crisis, politicians should do something. i think they should do it much earlier. before a tsunami comes over us, we should take the measures and be proactive and prevent this type of thing from happening. so i agree with what others have said: if we are starting to act now, it is too little, too late. my second point is this issue of the supervisory steps to be taken. you mentioned the solvency ii example where you also accuse us, parliament, of weakening these proposals on group supervision. i do not think it is a weakening of the structure that has been proposed, as i think my colleague mr sánchez presedo has mentioned already. what is proposed in fact by the commission is a system of group supervision where lead supervisors, which often are the big member states, take the lead in the process of a college. i support the idea is that we should create colleges and that we should take some of these supervisory issues at a common, joint, level, because these cross-border groups act at the joint level. but the point is that there may be conflict between the interests of these lead supervisors of one national member state and the supervisors of a host member state, a big part of whose markets may dominated by this other group. so in these cases of conflict, it is not fair to just say that you can have a sort of voluntary mediation by the level 3 committees followed simply by advice to the lead supervisor, and then in the end the lead supervisor can either comply or explain that he is deviating from this advice. this is what is worrying the host member states, and that is why you cannot stick solely to national supervisors dealing with this. there you need a neutral, impartial, independent arbiter at european level, and this is what i have already proposed in this report: not a bureaucratic supervision structure, just something to build on the present structure simply by adding to the other chairs of these three level 3 committees an independent chair and an independent vice-chair to act together with these level 3 committees and to deal in a binding way with the resolution of conflicts that may remain between supervisors. this is what i think should be the guarantee to enable host member states, smaller member states in particular, to give their assent to this type of group supervision and these mandates to lead supervisors. so this extra level, the extra add-on that we need to solve this problem, as well as for the short term, is in amendment 7 that i have tabled for the vote tomorrow. another issue is the role of these supervisory committees as compared to the commission. i also have the impression, like mrs kauppi, that in the commission you would only prefer to have these supervisors as advisors and not really have an independent role for them to play, for instance in the international connection, in connection with the iasb standard-setting board or the fsf. a direct question to you. we have been told that mr barroso was very proud that now the commission is invited to this financial stability forum, but that although you were invited last week you did not go to that meeting. maybe you can directly respond to say whether this true or not? a final thing, on the executive pay recommendation, the only thing you have mentioned is that this is soft law and one member state is following up on this. there is room to come up with stronger proposals, so please come up with your proposals.
president. - mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply and for the fact that the president-in-office of the council has not yet made a statement on the elections in belarus. there is therefore no reason to change the european union's policy towards belarus now. we agree that it is good to see if we can talk to the authorities in belarus about possible follow-up through an informal dialogue, which has also been proposed by the french presidency. the next steps must come from them. if belarus is willing to develop a dialogue with the european union on the possible opening up of society and the creation of space, including for the opposition, then the european union may also respond. until then, i am not in favour of lifting the existing sanctions against a number of leading figures in the country who are not allowed into the eu. there have been some encouraging signs in recent months - already mentioned by colleagues here - which also give rise to the question of whether we can move forward through dialogue with that country. secondly: if minister martynov is invited to luxembourg for a meeting, i suggest that the council contact the opposition. there are two leading representatives of the opposition here, mr kazoelin and mr milinkevich. why are they not invited by the council to speak? i would like to make one final comment. if there is to be a dialogue with belarus on possible reforms, we think it is important that the opposition be involved. there's an example. we had a sort of informal dialogue in belarus itself, called the 'troika for belarus', some seven years ago, with the european parliament as one of the leaders. it would be possible if the belarusian authorities were prepared to resume this dialogue through a sort of troika of the european parliament, the osce and the council of europe. because whatever we do in europe, whatever discussion we have, the opposition must be involved.
president. - if all parties are given equal chances of winning seats in elections in belarus, it is quite possible that the party of the current president lukashenko will emerge as the largest. he is respected by those who value security of life more than individual liberty. they appreciate that the dislocation in belarus is much less than in a number of other former soviet republics. on the other hand, he is repulsed by those who reject his efforts to unite with russia. they are attached to the distinct belarusian language, which was the reason for the founding of this country almost ninety years ago. many intellectuals, who focus more on poland, lithuania and the european union, have left the country. we need to stop beating up protesters. the imprisonment of opponents and all other attempts to make existence impossible for opposition parties. an electoral law that makes it easy to keep the entire opposition out of parliament is not good. we must not seek confrontation with this country, but do everything we can to support its democratization. the situation in belarus has been less bad recently than in previous years. political prisoners have been released and the government is seeking to move closer to the european union. the government also announced that the parliamentary elections would be fair this time. but what happened next was far from consistent with that. belarus still has the death penalty and, contrary to the law, the media is not independent. in the future, free movement with belarus must be promoted and talks must be held with both the government and non-governmental organisations.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in belarus. i support that desire wholeheartedly. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the middle east. i think that an important concrete step in this direction is the adjustment, i.e. the reduction (paragraph 13 of our resolution) of the european visa fee for belarusians. the current level is 60 euros for ukrainians and 35 euros for russians. i would like to hear what the council and commission think of this proposal. i found paragraphs 7 and 8 of the resolution - which i am prepared to support - to be particularly interesting. in this we call for genuine democratic elections and also for respect for human rights, but we are only addressing the belarusian government. we must also address parliament, because it is our natural interlocutor.
president, president-in-office of the council, only a few weeks ago you considered it premature to invite the belarusian minister martynov to paris. i see you've decided the time is right. the precise reasoning behind this change of course remains, to be honest, completely unclear to me, even after this statement. the elections of 28 september, as everyone here has already pointed out, did not meet the standards that we all know and that you also attach such importance to. with a meeting at this level and in this setting - informal or not - the regime seems to be rewarded. but what for? this morning i too had the pleasure of exchanging views with mr milinkevich and mr kazoelin. the opposition in belarus is united and perhaps stronger than ever. the same opposition must be given a chance to reach the belarusian people and the belarusian people must be given the opportunity to experience european freedoms firsthand. it is not possible that an eu visa still costs 60 euros, while the average monthly salary in belarus is a paltry 250 euros. how many times do we have to ask for this now? i do not doubt the usefulness and necessity of a certain dialogue. but it is clear that lukashenko's fine words are often empty words. the dialogue envisaged must therefore be justified and also very targeted. my question is: what is the council's concrete plan of action? i'd love to hear more. finally, a question which has also been raised by mr jan marinus wiersma. would you be prepared, mr president-in-office, to receive mr milinkevich and mr kazoelin on monday, either before, during or after the meeting with mr martynov? that's up to you. but let it be clear that under the present circumstances this would be the only correct signal. unfortunately i will have to leave the chamber in a few minutes. i do apologize for the inconvenience but i would like to have a straight answer.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his report. many of us here think that clean drinking water looks like this. i would point out that in many countries this glass is empty. a lot of people don't have water or the water looks like this. if there is a shortage of oil, the debates are very heated, and i sometimes wonder why this is not the case when it comes to water. water is a matter of life and death. the world's population is steadily increasing, and the amount of clean drinking water available is only decreasing. europe too is facing water shortages. but also hidden water scarcity, for example by cutting off households from drinking water supplies. this is due to a number of factors, including poor sanitation, the gradual liberalization of public services, the use of pesticides, fertilisers and intensive livestock farming. do you know that 100 grams of beef requires 2,400 liters of water? the commission's communication focuses largely on water conservation. this is bringing water to the sea, as far as i am concerned, because the first thing to do is to tackle the source of the problems mentioned above. i think of the fact that first of all, investment must be made in sound sewage and water treatment systems throughout europe and beyond. the use of pesticides must also be reduced, the impact of intensive livestock farming on the water supply must be considered and measures against climate change must be taken. access to clean drinking water is a civil right, a right of everyone. the question is not whether there is enough drinking water, the problem is the distribution of clean drinking water, unnecessary pollution and the urge to privatize. in england alone, privatisation led to a sudden sharp increase in prices and in the number of households cut off from water. this is a disgrace! i'm advocating that the drinking water supply be kept in public hands.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's water resources are not depleted. water scarcity and drought have both climatic and human causes. tourism also takes a great deal of water resources, especially in those countries where the problems are already great. the ipcc's research results have shown that the risks will only increase in the coming years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the water sector does not deteriorate further. i therefore believe that this report sends a good signal. efficient water use is literally vital in the fight against water scarcity and drought. i would also like to stress the principle of water pricing, which is also included in the report. there are good experiences in several member states. i also welcome the report's link with the water framework directive. i think that's the right place to address the issues of water scarcity and drought. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, richard seeber, on his excellent work.
co-rapporteur. − mr president, in the light of topical developments we have strengthened the text in an oral amendment about the deposit guarantee schemes, and it reads ‘the lamfalussy level 3 committees can take decisions on the basis of a fair ...’. sorry, i have the wrong one. this one is about qualified majority voting in the level 3 committees. this text is brought in line with what should be done to guarantee that host member states have an important say in the group supervision, and it reads that ‘the lamfallusy level 3 committees take decisions on the basis of a fair and appropriate qmv system that takes into account the relative size of the financial sector and the gdp of each member state, as well as the systemic importance of the financial sector for the member state’. from then on it is the same text.
co-rapporteur. − mr president, it is the second one. it was indeed about the deposit guarantee schemes. we tried to strengthen the present text by asking that these rules in the european union be ‘urgently revised to avoid arbitrage between guarantee levels in member states that may further increase volatility and undermine financial stability instead of increasing security and depositors’ confidence’. then it says they should also guarantee a level playing field for financial institutions. sorry for this.
in writing. - i abstained on the report by mr panzeri on the intensification of the fight against undeclared work. although there are some good points in the report, i believe that the report is trying to introduce elements of flexicurity back into the european labour market by a backdoor. flexicurity will lead to more flexibility for employers and less security for employees. i can't agree to this.
in writing. - more than 20% of jobs in europe are undeclared. it's affecting our social security system. the proposal acknowledges that the market is partly corrupt and that competition is distorted as a result. we support the fight against undeclared work. we shall abstain, however, because this proposal is seriously flawed. unfortunately, it is based on a neoliberal mindset that pits workers against each other. the fight against undeclared work is used as a pretext to promote the so-called flexibilization of labour. this is worsening the labour market position of europeans as they are forced to compete with cheap labour from elsewhere. the eu's enlargements in 2004 and 2007 have had a profound impact. the wealth gap within the eu has widened considerably as a number of new member states have seen their once thriving industries collapse. these are now countries that mainly import goods and export labour. people from poland or romania come to work elsewhere for wages that are not lawfully paid and under unacceptable conditions. their low pay is being abused to reduce the pay of others. europe cannot be further integrated if we have very different income levels within the eu and if those differences are abused in the competition.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. on 23 may 2007, balkenende defended in strasbourg that the eu symbols should not be included in a constitutional treaty. his main reason for doing so was that otherwise the dutch council of state would find a new dutch referendum necessary. the commission is proposing to include the eu flag, the anthem and the motto in the european parliament's rules of procedure. he argues that he is thereby sending a political signal that these symbols represent european values. he hoped that the eu would be a benchmark for freedom, development and solidarity in the world. the eu is also characterised by its uncontrollable size, its intrusive interference, its risky coercion of economic freedom and its display of military power. it is better if 'listening to the voter' becomes more of a european characteristic. this symbolism will not change anything. the blue flag is already on every banknote and car number plate. we are still pretending that the treaty of lisbon has vitality, when it has been rejected according to its own rules.
in writing. − this proposal is an attempt to finally take earlier decisions seriously by improving controls, better information, guarded motorway stops and the abolition of the exemptions for the so-called self-employed as of 23 march 2009. the transposition into national law and enforcement of social legislation for road transport is hopelessly behind. the four member states which fail to do so are protected as long as their names are not publicly mentioned. the fact that they do not regulate working, driving and resting times properly is bad for road safety and for the health of professional drivers. my party, the sp, supports the plan to do something about this, even though better proposals were voted down at an earlier stage. we do this because we consider compliance with social legislation to be important and because the directive will also cover self-employed drivers. this will put an end to the abuse of workers by their employers in forcing them to become self-employed without staff. as ostensibly self-employed, they are forced to work under worse working conditions and take on business risks they cannot bear. the competition in this business is killing me. words about following rules should be turned into actions. this is the only way for drivers to maintain a sufficient income and livelihood.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it now appears that the commissioner responsible, mrs hübner, with whom we are so anxious to debate this subject, will not be able to be present. the commission presidency and the coordinators of the various political groups therefore propose that this debate, which is so important for parliament, be held in the november part-session. the request is therefore made to move the debate to the november partsession. that is the request i would like to make.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, some things that you have worked hard on never happen, and some things happen only very late. that was the case with this directive. you would not expect any more for it to happen. in 2002, six years ago, i was working very hard as your rapporteur in first reading on this commission proposal after the social dialogue negotiations of the social partners’ fields. we managed to convince the commission and the vast majority of the council to adopt 95% of our amendments and improvements of the text, only a blocking minority of, at the time, 4 of the 15 member states did not want to go along with that majority. several presidencies tried very hard to break the stalemate but, after some years, the proposal was – well, maybe not really dead, but at least in a coma. that was a shame, since the problems that the directive tackles had not disappeared by far – on the contrary, in the period of enlargement of the eu. also, with the directive, those problems of exploitation of migrant workers are not fully solved, so we have to continue to work on this, but a temporary agency directive is a first step. it creates clarity about the status and rights of employment of temporary agency workers by reinforcing the principle of equal treatment as the basic principle of labour law but at the same time – and no less importantly – by emphasising the role of collective bargaining and decent industrial relations in a growing and maturing temporary agency sector. i emphasise this, and this is linked to the negative connotations of exploitation by gang masters from the organised professional temporary agency sector. in the present directive this sector can really prove to be mature and to have a good social dialogue with trade unions, and then help reach very advanced arrangements for flexibility and security in the labour market.
president. - before i go into the matter, i would like to suggest that we ask each presidency of the council to provide us with a washing doll or an inflatable doll to put in the chamber, since the council itself is never present at these debates and i would like to speak to someone. perhaps you could formally convey this request to the presidency. i hear my colleagues agree. first of all, i would like to congratulate and, also on behalf of my group, express my support for the rapporteur, who has done a hell of a job over the past year. i gotta hand it to you. the eu is not about marriage morality, mr president, but about guaranteeing the rights of eu citizens wherever they are and whoever they are married to. the choice of partner is not our concern, but we must ensure that the rights of citizens are safeguarded. it is therefore deeply regrettable that the member states have not reached agreement on this. i would like to say to my esteemed swedish colleague that i think there is a big misunderstanding. i think that the rights of people, women in particular, are being strengthened, not weakened. i think it's a good thing in the 21st century that people can make individual decisions about their own lives and divorce can be part of that. i would like to say, as the rapporteur has said, that my group will also vote against the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group and i do not agree with mr casini's arguments. it is also a matter of principle, because i believe that we must decide for ourselves what we want for our citizens and that we must not be limited by the fear of the sharia. there are sufficient guarantees in the present proposal and in the additional amendment by the pse group, which we will support. we've been through that together. i would also like to say - and i am reacting in particular to mr casini's comments - that it is actually very bitter that we are using the same arguments that are used to exclude, say, certain legal systems - sharia or something like that - or that it is also referred to within the european union to not recognize marriages that are perfectly legal within the eu, purely because of the sexual orientation of the couple. i think that's an anomaly. i would therefore like to say that i find it extremely regrettable that the member states have not reached agreement. i understand that the commission is for the time being committed to a european solution. i'm very happy about that. i realize it is an extremely difficult task: if this problem has not been solved, despite mr sarkozy's enormous drive, it must be very difficult. finally, i can only say that i hope that if closer cooperation does come about, all the 26 member states that have agreed, including my own, will join in.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. in any case, the figures we have just heard from commissioner barrot show that international relations end in divorce much more often than national ones. however, these divorces are much more difficult to formalize, while their impact is very great, because often one of the partners is in a foreign country, where he also has no social safety net or insufficient knowledge of the situation, which makes it very difficult to reach a good, fair divorce. i would therefore like to express my appreciation for the work of the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt: i think that it has been very careful and has made sure that the rights of the weaker or less well informed people are strengthened and that all the partners are really well informed about their rights and know what is best for them. what i do find interesting is that the website not only provides some sort of financial overview or how quickly you can get a divorce, but also pays attention to the possible parenting paths, for example. i believe that children's rights should be well guaranteed, but that is the parents' job. the parents, not the government, should determine what is good and in the best interests of the child, but at the same time there should be the possibility of finding an appropriate solution, preferably one that involves working with the children together. at least there has to be an agreement. the wife does not have to be responsible for everything, but there must be agreement on how both parents handle the matter. i also found the swedish colleague's remark incomprehensible, because if a woman wants to leave a marriage, it is a pity if a man suddenly says that he does not agree. finally, i would like to say to the rapporteur that there is no such thing as gay marriage in the netherlands. we have a marriage that is open to all couples, regardless of their sex. it is just one marriage and it is therefore only the european union, not the netherlands, that makes a distinction within our dutch marriage.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the first question is: which court has jurisdiction? the second question is: which law should the court apply? the first question is to be dealt with at european level, and i think that is understandable. this guarantees that every european citizen can bring his case to court. the second question concerns a field which is typically a matter for the member states themselves to decide. the existing national legislation is based on many national principles and these must be respected. the commission proposal also aims to harmonize these collision rules. the report by mrs gebhardt largely maintains the commission's report and does not seek to remove chapter iia from the proposal. that is why i shall vote against the report and against the proposal. i therefore call on the council to reject the commission proposal as well.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will start with another remark on the absence of the council, because in my speaking notes i had some remarks about good cooperation between the european parliament and the council, dialogue, spirit of the lisbon treaty etc., but the council is absent for this debate as well. i think that is absolutely disgraceful, because it is the council that is hammering out a pnr policy and is required to reply to questions, and it is not here. the council has publicly made solemn pledges to involve the european parliament, but now we see what the pledges of the council are worth – nothing. i think this is an affront not to the european parliament but to the citizens who are entitled to answers and transparent decision-making. so please, mr president, pass on my discontent to the representatives of the presidency. it is a joint debate on, the one hand, the proposals for an eu pnr and, on the other hand, the agreement on pnr between the eu and australia. they are essentially the same problems, and the problems have already been raised in the context of the agreement with the us and, later on, with canada. one of the main issues is that of purpose limitation, because everything else follows on from that – purpose limitation or, in other words, the justification for the proposal to begin with. now, everything is wrong with the justification, everything is wrong with the purpose limitation. i shall describe this to you. to start with, subsidiarity: the commission and the council state that the aim of the proposal is harmonisation of national schemes. however, only a few member states – i think it is three so far – have either a pnr system in place or plans for such a scheme. therefore, the proposal cannot possibly harmonise national systems, because they are non-existent. it merely creates the obligation for all member states to set up such a system for the collection of pnr data. i would call this ‘policy laundering’, because whatever we cannot achieve at national level we try to achieve via the back door of the eu. i am very pro-european, but i do not like this. moreover, the commission has proposed a decentralised scheme so that the european added value is even less clear, and it creates an unworkable patchwork of rules and systems for the carriers and a very intransparent system for citizens. the stated purpose in the proposal of the commission is to identify persons who are, or may be, involved in a terrorist or organised crime event, as well as their associates, create and update risk indicators, to provide intelligence on travel patterns and other trends relating to terrorist offences to be used in criminal investigations and the prosecution of terrorist offences and organised crime. the commission, in its proposal, claims that the eu has been able to assess the value of pnr data and to realise its potential for law enforcement purposes. however, to date we have not seen any concrete evidence to substantiate this claim. any evidence so far provided by the us is anecdotal and, to be honest, the information that we got from various us government agencies over the last year or so only seems to demonstrate that the mass collection and processing of pnr is not useful at all. there has only been a single evaluation of the us pnr scheme, which did not assess the results. as a matter of fact, a recent dhs-funded report raises substantial doubts over the usefulness of behavioural surveillance as a tool to identify potential terrorists. this is easy to understand, because how are you going to develop risk profiles of potential terrorists on the basis of pnr data? it is blatant nonsense. how are you going to determine if anybody has bad intentions on the basis of his telephone number or his credit card number? in other words, the purpose stated in the commission proposal is demonstrably invalid and unfounded, and yet that is the basis on which the council is working. the commission and council seem to be confused as to what can and cannot be done with pnr data. pnr records tend to contain very summary data and, on average, no more than 10 fields, with very basic information. so it is totally unclear how this data could serve to identify high-risk persons. law enforcement authorities already have the necessary powers to obtain pnr data on a case-by-case basis in the context of an investigation or prosecution into known suspects and possible associates. so the commission proposal would merely remove the obligation of getting a warrant and due cause. so if law enforcement authorities need new powers, it is for them to demonstrate when and how the existing powers were insufficient. so far we have never had an answer to that question. we already have a directive on api data, and they can indeed be used for the identification of persons and they can be used to run persons against a watch list. this is not possible with pnr data. so if we have a directive on api data, then why do we need more? that has not been demonstrated. automated systematic analysis of pnr of all passengers can be useful for other purposes, for example combating drug trafficking or illegal immigration. they may be very legitimate and valid purposes, but let us have it on the table and let us not talk about the prevention of terrorist attacks, because that is something completely different. if the commission and the council intend to expand the scope of the proposal to cover other purposes, as i have just said, they should clarify in detail, for each stated purpose, what use will be made of the pnr data. in other words, you can use pnr data in a targeted manner in the context of a specific ongoing, concrete investigation. you can use pnr data for automated systematic analysis, for example against drug trafficking, but in that case you do not need to store the data. so we need to know exactly what the purpose is. that brings me to the issue of, let us say, the legal base, because if you read the small print of the eu-australia pnr – and this also applies to the eu-us pnr – it is not only about the fight against terrorism and crime but also about immigration, public health risks, administrative purposes, customs, immigration, supervision and accountability of public administration. that has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism. the commission and the council have chosen a third-pillar instrument for the pnr proposal and also for the agreements with other countries, but the third pillar is about police and justice cooperation within the european union. it is not about security in other countries. the commission may argue that, indirectly, if we provide data to the americans, the australians and to south korea, for example, we will benefit from it in terms of security. that may well be true, but then i would like to understand where public health comes in. where does immigration come in? where does the supervision and accountability of public administration come in? it has nothing to do with it. i will not go into all the other details of the implementation, but the question of purpose and justification needs to be answered before anything else, because the claim that it has been so useful in the fight against terrorism has not been substantiated to date: we are still waiting for evidence, and i would very much like to have that. and, if there is no evidence, then we should look at the proposal again.
mr president, i would just briefly like to reply to that because i think it is a matter of courtesy as well as political interest for the council to be here and i am sure they can spare one minister to be present. we have had previous debates in the past two months where the council was present but left the debate half-way through. i think that is unacceptable and it is not for me to report that to my group. it is for the presidency of this house to transmit our discontent to the presidency of the european union.
i would like to make a further comment on what mr bradbourn has said. i am not opposed to the pnr either, because it is a bit of a given. the point is, and i agree with the rapporteur on this point, that we must look very carefully at how best to use this instrument and when the need and the usefulness are really established. i would also like to make a proposal to the commission. commissioner barrot says that he is really very keen to work with the european parliament and i appreciate that, but we are not quite getting past the question of utility and necessity and that is, i think, the real heart of the debate between the commission, the council and parliament on this subject. commissioner, you say you have a lot of evaluations that show that it's all very useful. i know from what i have read that it mainly provides information on migration and has solved a number of other issues, but as far as i know it has not done much to combat terrorism. i'd be happy to investigate that with you at some point. so i propose that there should be an inquiry and that you and i should sit down together to define the question of inquiry, and then we should have an inquiry and then we should have a full discussion. we are not opposed to pnr in principle, but we do want it to be handled with care, in line with the principles of our privacy policy. i hope you will support that. can you respond to this? as for your agreement with australia, it may well be much better than any other agreement, for example with the united states, but my question is: what other chords are on the shelf? you just said that this must not fall into the hands of repressive authorities. so i can assume that we will never negotiate with russia and we will never negotiate with china. can you at least confirm that and perhaps give a list of the countries with which negotiations are already under way and which we will not be informed of until a few months from now?
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i will be very happy to sit down with him and talk through all the details. i shall come back briefly to purpose, because there are many misunderstandings about what can and cannot be done with pnr data. pnr data are already available now, today, without an eu pnr scheme, simply with a warrant and due cause. but the need for further, unlimited powers has not been proven. so i do not dispute the usefulness of pnr data in themselves: i dispute the usefulness of this mass collection and automated analysis. i am not the only one who is of this view; i am in good company. the data protection authorities have the same view, but they are being ignored. the air carriers are telling us the same. security experts from airport security tell us the same, and i will give you a quote from a report that was commissioned by the department of homeland security – i will be very happy to give it to you. it says: ‘automated identification of terrorists through data mining or any other known methodology is not feasible as an objective’. i did not make this up. these are security experts commissioned by the department of homeland security. there is evidence for the usefulness, as you said, commissioner, but usefulness in combating drugs trafficking or illegal immigration or other purposes. this may surprise you, but i am not even opposed in principle to using pnr data for those purposes. but we must be very precise in defining the purposes so as to ensure proportionality and to ensure adequate legal safeguards. i would like to conclude on a very personal note. i am very unhappy about the way that we have been arguing about pnr for five years now, and the council and the commission just charge ahead like a runaway train. i would like to say to my fellow irish eu citizens that, if you share my desire to end this kind of undemocratic and untransparent decision-making, then please say ‘yes’ to the new eu treaty.
the commission's proposals for a more rapid recovery of cod stocks in european waters are the subject of the busk report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr busk, on his report. cod is an important fish species for the eu. in the past, it was a popular food, and cod was eaten as a substitute for more expensive meat. today, cod is a luxury fish that is available only at high prices. since the late 1980s and early 1990s, cod stocks have been declining. this is due to a variety of natural causes, such as the warming of the north sea and the near disappearance of severe winters, but also to the intensive fishing for cod. it is this particular cause that the commission intends to tackle with the new cod recovery plan. i agree with the commission's wish to simplify the rules for restricting cod fishing. the current system is too complex and leads to many differences of interpretation between fishermen and inspectors. simplification of the system will at least solve this. it is necessary, also for the dutch fisheries, that we maintain the recovery of cod stocks at european level. the proposed measures took time to take effect. for more than a year and a half, cod stocks in the north sea have been making a remarkable recovery. parliament - and i too - wishes to involve the fisheries sector and the regional advisory councils more in the measures to be taken. this will improve the sector's footprint. the new rules are, as far as i am concerned, a step in the right direction. the member states can regulate cod fishing better, while fishermen know much better what they can and cannot do. it will take four to six years to see whether the measures we are taking now will have any effect. i therefore call on the commissioner to take the time to evaluate the measures taken before proposing new measures. otherwise, the fishermen will be in an impossible situation.
in writing. the adoption of the medina report is a strong signal for better regulation. the report contains the main epp positions, such as: independent monitoring of the implementation of impact assessments by the european commission; timely and comprehensive consultation of stakeholders; the 25% reduction in administrative burden should be a net objective. reductions in burdens resulting from existing legislation in certain areas should not be offset by additional administrative burdens resulting from new legislation. unfortunately, there is insufficient support from other groups for the following points: support the commission to consider self-regulation and co-regulation as serious strategic policy options. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation. the epp also believes that the commission should take account of the opinions of the high level group on administrative burdens (stoiber group). the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of the environment be amended to include the possibility of the member states to impose a minimum level of protection on the environment.
madam president, it is interesting to see that financial market supervision has become a chefsache in the council. i appreciate the setting-up of the high-level group with mr jacques de larosière, which we in the ep have been demanding for several years now. i want to give this clear message: coordination alone is not enough. we really need institutional solutions. voluntary cooperation of national supervisors on the basis of ‘comply or explain’ systems like in the solvency ii and the crd proposals is insufficient, and the financial stability forum, which is pretty unaccountable and which only has representatives from larger countries, with their national interests, is not sufficient. it does not give a clear voice from europe. we need a unified architecture similar to the european system of central banks, which is perfectly placed to be an arbiter internally and a strong voice internationally.
i would like to join mr salafranca in saying what president sarkozy said this morning: we must try to resolve the problems with russia through dialogue and not through confrontation. we must try to develop relations in europe based on partnership, but also on the principle of equality of partners, without, of course, failing to be critical where necessary. in this context, we must seek solutions to the problems of georgia and we must cooperate with russia on a number of important issues already mentioned, international issues such as the future of the non-proliferation regime, the problems of iran and the follow-up to kyoto. our own environmental ambitions can only be achieved if we reach agreement with other important partners in the world. cooperation with russia is also needed on the financial crisis and russia's role in the g8. the financial crisis shows once again how dependent we are on russia, but also how dependent russia is on the international economy. this is another reason why there will be no return to the cold war: the world has changed completely from what it was 30 or 40 years ago. secondly, we again commend the action of the french presidency and the unity of the union in dealing with the conflict in georgia. it is very important that this unity be maintained in the future. this is particularly important in the context of the talks which have started in geneva and which will continue in november. it is understandable that there was no immediate agreement on a formula for resolving the georgia question. that is perhaps also a difficult question to resolve, because there is a fundamental difference of opinion between us and russia. we say that the territorial integrity of georgia must be upheld. we cannot accept the recognition of south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states. it's going to be a tough discussion. it is perhaps worth recalling in this context the need for a wider debate in europe too on the security structures and arrangements we have, the so-called helsinki process. the russians have made proposals to modify and improve it. perhaps the council and the commission will have some ideas on this. what is important in the context of this discussion is to make it clear to russia that we do not want to fight over spheres of influence and that we do not accept spheres of influence, including in the regions bordering both russia and the european union. i am not in favour of nato expanding in that direction. i am in favour of an active policy of the european union to guarantee the independence of countries such as ukraine, georgia and moldova, and i hope that the proposals the commission will put forward this autumn on the eastern partnership will help to strengthen ties with these neighbouring countries, so that they too can be helped to guarantee their own development and independence.
president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, relations with russia have undeniably changed in recent times. i would like to say that in my view, isolating russia is not an option. at the same time, it is very difficult to talk about partnership when there is so much mistrust of russia in the member states. i do think, as chairman of the delegation for relations with russia, that we must keep the dialogue going. the council does that, the commission does that and we as parliament must do that too. we have had a very lively discussion on this in our delegation to russia in connection with our visit to moscow at the end of this week. the result of this was that we had to continue the dialogue, but we had to let our partners know that it was not business as usual. we need to report this openly and try to have constructive discussions. we expect much more from russia, mr president. the withdrawal of troops from the buffer zone was only the first step. the only way to reduce tensions is to reduce the number of troops in abkhazia and south ossetia or to withdraw them. there is nothing in the agreements about this, but it is in keeping with the spirit of the agreements and i would also like to hear the minister's opinion on this. the eu, and the presidency in particular, has been incredibly clear and very active in recent times. i think this should continue. i have three more questions. first, as regards the run-up to the summit: what signals and what concrete steps do you think are needed to restart the negotiations? secondly: how do you involve parliament in this? and thirdly, a note: russia is not a party to the oslo convention on cluster bombs. now it turns out that the dutch journalist was killed by a russian cluster bomb. how can we, commissioner, still include russia in the new treaty to be signed in oslo?
president, the member states of the european union have not closed ranks in response to the unilateral territorial division of georgia under russian supervision. there is no question of a joint, let alone firm, european response to the kremlin's power machinations. the crucial question remains: what does the union mean by a strategic partnership with the russian federation? in more poignant terms: is moscow really an indispensable partner for brussels, or am i touching on a political taboo in europe? the fact is that russia has so far blocked an effective international response to the iranian and north korean nuclear programmes. at the same time, moscow is not proving to be an indispensable partner in the bloody fight against islamic terrorism, for example on the afghan front. the cold figures may be the only sign of a strategic, indeed indispensable, partnership between the european union and russia in the energy sector: today, the eu27 depend on russia for some 70% of its oil and gas exports. however, for its own sake, the eu must reduce this strong dependence as quickly as possible. finally, moscow itself indicates that its energy reserves will be exhausted in ten to fifteen years. the council and the commission, where is your strategy for energy diversification? the new turkmen gas find should spur you to action.
president. - in the climate and energy debate currently taking place in this house, we have repeatedly stressed the importance of a sustainable society. one part of this is a sustainable transport sector. in recent months we have tried to impose stricter standards for freight (euro 6) and passenger cars. this is a source approach. but other stages can also be taken to make transport more sustainable, through green procurement, as proposed in the proposal we are discussing. i wholeheartedly support the principle of including energy and environmental impacts in vehicle procurement. this will stimulate sustainable vehicle development by promoting demand for sustainable vehicles and thereby encouraging manufacturers to innovate more. important aspects to be taken into account are fuel consumption and related co2 emissions, but also the emissions of toxic and otherwise harmful particles and substances such as nitrogen oxides and fine dust. for effective policy, it is important to ensure a good exchange of knowledge and information between member states. this will allow the exchange of best practices, which will help to optimise green procurement procedures. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dan jørgensen, for the compromise he has reached with the council on this subject. the first stage of the procedure was difficult, but in the second reading i think we have reached a reasonable agreement, which i have been able to sign.
mr president, a measure which may seem justifiable for reasons of road safety and terrorism is not at all obvious from other points of view. press reports about body scanners have caused a flood of outrage in the dutch press. if the body scanner is a good tool, it's been presented in the wrong way. certainly, as long as the health and privacy implications are unknown, we should not use it. it is precisely because people feel threatened by all kinds of other new developments that there is every reason to be very cautious about this now.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to begin by thanking, as i have so often done, all those involved: i would like to thank commissioner kuneva, the shadow rapporteurs and also the three council presidents, because we started this report in 2007, under the portuguese presidency. the slovenian presidency was followed by a french presidency, and we finally found a compromise. it is a pity that the secretary of state, mr luc chatel, is not here, because it is of course great to see that we have reached a compromise, and that already at first reading. in 1994 a directive on timeshare was adopted which has considerably cleaned up the sector. the major problem was that member states implemented the directive differently. there was a patchwork of legislation and also compliance was different in different places willingly or unwillingly and that still inspired some distrust among consumers with regard to buying timeshare across the border. we're working on a new policy now. we have broadened the scope of the directive a little, because the 1994 directive did not define a number of products or did not define them sufficiently, such as long-term holidays, the exchange of products, etc. i think we have now succeeded in making a clear improvement on this point and both industry and consumers are very satisfied with the result. i hope that we as politicians are too. we have worked quite intensively with colleagues from the various groups and we have achieved a good result. for example, there is a ban on prepayment, because that was a very annoying problem for many consumers. you paid and could not get back the eur 1,000 or eur 1,500 you had paid in advance. the 14-day cooling-off period is also a very important matter, i think. then, and i am personally very pleased about this, there is a checklist, a standard information form which expressly states what you have bought and also that you have the possibility to terminate your contract within 14 days without giving any reason. then there is the voluntary code of conduct for the sector and the quality mark, a distinctive or quality mark, and also the fact that the commission has undertaken to monitor it. that's very good for me. i think it is good that the commission has committed itself to following these codes of conduct. i am particularly pleased that the commission has undertaken to monitor compliance with the scheme in the member states in the trialogue. in some cases it will be somewhat easier for the consumer to go to the national courts. i regret that jurisdiction, the determination of the competent court, is not explicitly mentioned in this directive. i'm sorry, but in a compromise, you have to add a little water to the wine every now and then. i also regret that, if crucial information has not been provided, a contract is found to exist after a year. all of that can be done in a compromise. overall, there has been enormous progress for both the consumer and the sector, in particular maximum harmonisation. this makes it easier in some cases to go to court in the member state where you live. it will be much easier for the sector to do business across the border. i think, mr president, that we are on the verge of a good result and that we as a parliament, together with the commission and the council, can be proud of it.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, if we adopt this directive this afternoon, we will adopt a directive on a small part of the internal market, but it will be a very big step for the european consumer. this directive is a precursor to the horizontal consumer protection instrument. as rapporteur, i proposed that this should be laid down in a regulation. in the end it has become maximum harmonization and i think that maximum european harmonization will not only protect the consumer but also the bona fide companies involved in the trade in question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's tourism sector is not left behind. i am glad that this maximum harmonisation will give all european consumers equal rights. i believe that european consumers, regardless of their country of origin, should have the same rights when they buy goods, services or whatever within the internal market. this directive will do just that. i hope that the member states will also regulate and monitor compliance in the same way, so that consumer confidence is maintained. the internal market, and this is why i believe in europe, can only function well if it is based on trust, both from business and from the public and consumers. if we succeed, i think this will be a precursor and an important signal to harmonize the horizontal consumer protection instrument as much as possible for all consumer purchases. i think, mr president, that this is a great step forward, because we have already optimized many areas of the internal market, but not yet consumer confidence. i think that the directive before us is a very important step in that direction. i want to thank everyone who has contributed positively to this.
- i'm the reporter. - president, i would like to thank everyone once again: the shadow rapporteurs from the various committees, the commissioner... i hope we will adopt the text, because it is a major step forward for consumer rights in europe and will give a huge boost to tourism in europe. i hope therefore that the compromise will be accepted by the house and that we will take this important step towards optimising the internal market in one reading.
rapporteur.− mr president, in agreement with the shadows of the ppe-de, pse and verts/ale groups, i would like to propose an oral amendment to paragraph 1(g). it consists of two small changes. the first change is that we replace the words ‘fails to meet’ in the second sentence with ‘may not conform to’ so that the second sentence will read ‘and that as a result the agreement may not conform to eu and international data protection standards’. the second small change is in the last sentence, where i would like to replace the word ‘leaves’ by ‘might leave’ so that it reads ‘considers that this might leave the agreement open to legal challenge’.
rapporteur. −mr president, yes, as far as i am concerned, because the request for a split vote was made by the pse group because it did not agree with the middle section. if my oral amendment is adopted – and i am looking at the shadow of the pse group:yes, she agrees with me – then they agree with the paragraph as a whole, so we could vote on the paragraph as a whole.
in writing. −we welcome the report aimed at creating a safer online environment for children. it is our responsibility to protect our children from dangerous material containing child pornography and violence. however, the report should not be used as a pretext for the harmonisation of criminal law in the eu. first and foremost, we need better co-ordination between national legal systems.
in writing. −for many employers, the temptation is to pay as little as possible for the remuneration of their employees' work. other costs associated with the work, such as safety and amenities, are also under pressure. workers can only protect themselves against this by ensuring that their pay is based on a collective agreement binding on all and by adequate legal protection in the country where they live and work. both the original objectives of the services directive and the recent rulings of the european court of justice affect that protection. if they allow a worse foreign cmo or foreign law to apply, more and more employers will use cost-saving options for them and the income of employees will fall sharply. some people have the illusion that the draft eu constitution or the lisbon treaty offer sufficient guarantees against this. to achieve this, the text will have to be amended before it can be adopted. it was also expected that the andersson report would provide the guarantees envisaged. the compromise reached on this text unfortunately makes this even less the case than it was initially. that is why we cannot vote for it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - i am speaking as a member of the committee on development and i would like to make three points to that committee. firstly, the food crisis, secondly, the system of evaluating development policy and thirdly, the lack of resources in chapter 4 - foreign expenditure - which has been discussed earlier. first of all, the food crisis. of course, that is a big problem. millions of lives are at stake and a joint european approach is urgently needed. but we need a different approach from the one the commission proposed in the first place. the budgetary agreements must be respected and the powers of the council and the european parliament must not be overridden. i am therefore pleased that the commission is going to review the first proposal to use unused agricultural funds for this purpose. mr president, the stakes must be: the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, food aid is needed for people whose lives are in immediate danger, but in the end it is a long-term issue and therefore food production must be put back on the european union's development agenda as a priority. we will also have to talk about a re-evaluation of the food security thematic programme and we will have to look at how we can give small farmers better access to crucial production factors. we are therefore also pleased that the proposal for a pilot project on micro-credit has been adopted, as this may make it easier for small farmers to finance food production. secondly: the systematic evaluation of development policy. this one needs to be better. the evaluation is too much about where the money goes and too little about the results. if we are to maintain public support for development cooperation, we must have a better view of the results of our work. thirdly: the lack of resources for external expenditure, chapter 4. this matter has been discussed. this is not just about development cooperation funds, but also for kosovo, the middle east, etc. we have great ambitions. you're right to be. that is why this item also deserves a structural increase.
the budget of the other institutions, mr president, is fairly balanced between the ever-strong, almost chronic, demand for more staff and the need to reduce expenditure. the european parliament, as a prudent budgetary authority, remains within the agreed limits (one fifth of the institutions' budget), but nevertheless invests in knowledge by increasing the number of staff in the political groups and by strengthening the library. it must, because the questions we face are always complex and always linked to globalisation and global issues. the foundations are being laid for the introduction of the members' and assistants' statute, and that is a matter of social justice that has been delayed for too long. the number of staff responsible for liaising between the european parliament and the national parliaments will be increased. that is essential, although it is a small amount. it is about the exchange with the national parliaments and it must be improved. there is often a great lack of knowledge in the capitals about the brussels agendas and about subsidiarity issues, while european citizens are more critical than ever of what should be regulated at national and european level. as regards the other institutions, mr president, one thing: the accessibility of citizens must be a priority. that is why it is important to increase the ombudsman's staff, to mention just this one point. the european union must be open to all citizens, including and especially those who have complaints.
mr president, one of the great advantages of speaking late is that you do not have to repeat a lot of things. that is why i shall immediately mention two matters which are particularly close to my heart. first of all: as europe's children are becoming more overweight, we as a society will have to invest more in teaching healthy eating habits. the increase in the school milk budget which we are proposing fits well within the framework of this ambition. with the additional 13 million we are going to spend, we would like to increase the number of schools and, in addition, to increase the range of healthy products. it is a pity that the commission is, in my view, moving too slowly in the matter of the school fruit programme. we as the european parliament would have liked to have had money for that programme in the budget as early as 2008. now it's 2009 before free fruit is in schools and only a meager 1.3 million has been allocated for networking and information provision. i'm sorry to hear that. school fruit doesn't fall from the sky after summer vacation. you will have to set up that programme in a thorough way and that will also require money next year. so a little more forward thinking is in order. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to a proposed study on the returns in the food production chain. for example, did you know, commissioner, that the economic return on this apple is 22% in your supermarket and 23% in the retail trade, while the primary producer of this apple, the farmer without whom this apple would not have existed, has seen a negative return of -4% in recent years? the study we are proposing is intended to take account of the position of farmers. if we want to maintain agricultural production in europe, we must also take account of the position of the primary producer and of the concentration of power in the chain, for example in large supermarkets. i hope, commissioner, that you and your colleague from the competition committee will put your teeth into this.
president, commissioner, council representative, minister, tomorrow we shall be voting on the resolution on the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and bosnia-herzegovina. my group supports the agreement, but we do want it to be used to ensure that the country reforms and modernises itself in a number of important areas. bosnia is far from ready for eu membership. there is still a lot to be done in bosnia in terms of the structure of the state and the judiciary. more attention should also be paid to the detection and prosecution of war criminals and to the fight against corruption and international crime. above all, there is a real need - and this has been said here several times - for internal structures, bureaucracy and internal cooperation. i was in sarajevo not long ago and i must confess to you, mr president, that what i found most distressing was the lack of responsibility on the part of the politicians there. the commissioner has spoken about this and mrs pack has also given a great deal of attention to it in her excellent report. you get the impression that all the problems bosnia has are imposed from outside and also that all the solutions have to come from outside. it is as if the internal ping-pong game that is played out there on different levels in different dimensions is the fault of the outside world and that we should therefore also solve it. but, as we say in dutch, mr president, "we are not married like that". it is not only in our interest that bosnia should be put back on its feet and that bosnia should live up to its european destiny, it is also in the interest of bosnia itself. what i found very positive, and i must therefore mention it here, is the commitment of all kinds of entrepreneurs, large companies, small companies trying to set something up economically there, although this is still made very difficult by the lack of an internal market, ngos that are very active and do good things and above all the contribution of europe there: the european soldiers who are there, the high representative and, above all, the work of the commission there. i think it does a great job in bosnia and it makes me proud to be european.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in bosnia-herzegovina. there is no agreement between the three peoples and their main political parties on the future structure of the administration. every attempt by the european union to impose such a structure on them has failed and will fail in the future. serbs, croats and bosnians will have to find their own way. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. my group supports the association agreement, which in our view should have been adopted much earlier and without the requirement of administrative reforms. in the committee on foreign affairs my group has tabled amendments seeking to find a final solution to the administrative problems which everyone supports and to protect the domestic economy. this will enable the european union to withdraw rapidly from all internal affairs. a majority rejected these solutions and wanted to remain in bosnia. this leads to the fact that my group unfortunately cannot support the final result of the pack report.
i would like to make a general comment, mr president, on behalf of the ind/dem group. the two parties in the netherlands that i represent are strongly in favour of a european perspective for bosnia-herzegovina. i have two questions to put to the council and the commission. just last saturday, an article appeared in the dutch press with an alarming headline: "bosnia is about to jump". it was an interview with an insider, a real expert on the bosnian situation. the council and the commission, do you agree with this warning signal that bosnia is really on the verge of collapse? this would be particularly true of general gun ownership in the country. the second point is even more serious. i have been studying the phenomenon of salafism, muslim radicalism in bosnia-herzegovina, supported by scientific research, also in my own country. i ask the council and the commission how they see bosnia as a haven and also a base for radical muslims in the balkans and in europe. experts claim that the european institutions are neglecting this serious problem. so, vigilance is required. my question to you: how do you view this problem? it 's not a small thing . bosnia is on the doorstep, and then with radical muslims... internally, externally, also active in eu member states, such as austria, my own country, scandinavia not small. i'd like your reaction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic states is not affected by the crisis. the holodomor is the starvation of 6-7 million people, of whom 3.5 million in ukraine, 2 million in kazakhstan and hundreds of thousands in the north caucasus on the volga and in western siberia, in the years 1932-1933. holodomor represents the brutal deprivation of the ukrainian peasantry of its grain harvest by stalin and his cronies as a trial bolshevik means of educating the countryside in the spirit of forced collectivization of agriculture. holodomor is the deliberate denial by the stalinists of the acute famine in ukraine and elsewhere in the soviet union, so that millions of victims were deprived of all domestic and foreign aid. holodomor stands for the soviet leadership's uninterrupted export of grain during the famine years of 1932-1933, even though it could have fed about a million and a half people for a year. holodomor represents genocide against the ukrainian villagers by a pure policy of starvation in the form of a complete economic blockade of the ukrainian countryside, by the introduction of natural resources, supply stoppages and blacklists based on the decree of 18 november 1932, dictated by molotov, stalin's then envoy in kharkiv. the holodomor represents stalin's paranoia about ukrainian nationalism, which the great leader considered to be the cause of what he saw as the inadequate supply of grain from the european granary. the holodomor represents stalin's intentions to disrupt forever all ukrainian dreams of autonomy, or even independence. mr president, we know today that this demonic plot has failed.
in writing. - i do not support the haug report because the european parliament is asking for more money. i support the new priorities on climate change and energy. it is good that many amendments seek to give greater expression to these priorities in the budget. but that also means that we have to indicate where we want to cut back. i do not find anything in parliament's position on this. i would also like to speak in favour of balanced support for the governments of the middle east. as far as the palestinian authority is concerned, this point needs constant attention. the provision of aid is appropriate, because prime minister fayad, as it now appears, is pursuing a course that deserves our support. finally, the european union is right to want to give additional food aid to poor countries because of the sharp rise in food prices. i agree with the rapporteur that the funding for this should not come from the european agricultural budget but from the external policy budget.
in writing. −budget item 05020812 and amendment 169 have suddenly made the subject of school fruit unexpectedly important, with proposals to spend more money on it in future. so far it has been a buy-out scheme for which money has been set aside for years with the aim of supporting fruit growers. this gives the purchased fruit a useful purpose. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. parliament can only give its opinion on this. the council decides and the subsidiarity test does not apply, as this competence has long been conferred on the eu by articles 36 and 37 of the treaty. our party, the socialist party in the netherlands, thinks that is a strange course of events. a school fruit program can be helpful in preventing children from becoming overweight and unhealthy. the question is why the eu should be the one to provide this instead of the municipalities organising the education. the eu funds now pay the member states, which are obliged to add an amount to the funds themselves, after which the municipalities are responsible for the implementation. the main result of this approach is a lot of red tape and cumbersome bureaucracy.
in writing. −the vast majority of all the population groups in the former yugoslavia want to join the eu. this is the view of the albanians and macedonians in macedonia, who have only recently found a solution to their differences over the governance of that country, or of the serbs, montenegrins and albanian kosovars, who have recently said goodbye to a common state, but also of the serbs, croats and bosnians in bosnia-herzegovina. the eu is wise not to overestimate its importance. the fact that people want to cooperate within the eu says nothing about the state structure of their own area. that is for the people to decide, not the eu. if they have to choose between regional selfgovernment or the transfer of powers to a central administration because the eu wants it, they choose the former. the 1992-95 war in bosnia was triggered by the fact that the majority of the population did not want a central government, but at most a loose cooperation. the debate yesterday made it clear that a large majority of this parliament favours more central government in bosnia-herzegovina rather than decentralisation. since this is not possible, the eu is condemning itself to an indefinite presence in that country. that is why i am against it.
in writing. −my group is not one of the co-signatories of this resolution and votes against it by a majority. the reason for this is the view that the emergence of the soviet union in what was then backward russia was a step forward, giving many poorly educated, poorly paid and disenfranchised people a better life. i share that view, but that cannot justify all the means that were used at the time. some modernists considered the individual right to life of people with a different viewpoint to be of no importance at all, and this was especially true of their leader, stalin. that attitude fit into a long russian tradition of oppression and violence. all the bad tools of the past were used again, this time to break down any resistance to progress. the original ideal of democracy and equality for all people was subordinated to it. the good that people pursued became the justification for the evil they did, on the idea that history always judges in favor of the victors. now, 75 years later, much attention is rightly given to what went wrong and to the many victims. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
- a writer. −mr president, it is becoming increasingly important to find a way for the people of the congo to survive, even if it remains impossible to build a central state authority. the avoidance of all conditions which expose them to violence and exploitation, forced displacement or famine must be a priority. why is everything that can go wrong in africa brought together in the congo? the congo was born as a colonial mining project in the hard-to-reach interior of africa. there was no congolese people with common interests and prospects, but a multitude of peoples in isolated areas. when it became an independent state nearly half a century ago, the whole world learned the names of the politicians who were fighting each other. tshombe and kalonji, closely linked to mining interests, sought to secede from their southeastern regions with much underground wealth. the only visionary who had the pretensions to give the country as a whole a serious future, patrice lumumba, was soon assassinated. after that, the military dictator mobutu again ruled the country for a long time as a private enterprise, completely subject to his will. the hope that after mobutu's death the building of progress in the congo could finally begin has been dashed. the second president, now named kabila, does not inspire and does not control large parts of the country. the possibilities of the congo today are determined by failed elections, the outcome of which was controversial from the beginning and is still far from being accepted by everyone, by population movements from the eastern neighbours, regional powers with mining interests and rebel armies. it is becoming doubtful whether a united solution for an undivided congo is still possible.
in writing.at the forthcoming asem summit in beijing on 24 october 2008, myanmar opposition leader and nobel laureate aung san suu kyi will have been imprisoned for a total of exactly 13 years. un secretary-general ban ki-moon has announced his intention to visit burma in december, but has indicated that he will only do so if serious progress can be made in the political and human rights situation in burma, otherwise his visit will have to be postponed. the forthcoming asem summit is an excellent opportunity to put strong pressure on burma to meet the un conditions quickly and thus to hasten the visit of ban ki-moon.
president. - i thank mrs bauer for the excellent report. it is not possible that we are talking today about a subject which has been on our agenda for so long, since 1957, when equal treatment for men and women, equal pay for men and women, was enshrined in the treaties. we've had 30 years of european rules and laws. we have a roadmap 2006-2010 from the european commission and we have one of the key points, also in the lisbon strategy, to reduce the gender pay gap. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i read in the times last saturday that the pay gap between men and women in the united kingdom has actually increased. in the private sector to 21.7% and in the public sector to 13.8%. there is no improvement in other member states - including my own country. the world economic forum's gender report for the netherlands shows that the netherlands is only ranked 88th in the ranking of equal pay for equal work. president, we must act! on friday, the ministers of france, the czech republic and sweden adopted an action plan. but how many action plans are there to come? in the resolution tabled by mrs bauer, she makes a number of recommendations. that's fine. i'll see you later. but for me, there are two priorities. firstly, we must ensure that equal treatment - equal pay for men and women, on which all our social security systems are based - is applied and monitored much more strictly. secondly - and i really think this should be brought to the fore - there is the pension gap between men and women. we are facing a monetarisation and ageing of society, and if women do not have a pension, that is very unfortunate. that is the action point for the future, mr president!
president, commissioner, europe is expected to act forcefully. citizens in affected areas do not understand why it should take months for europe, mired in its own procedures, to provide clarity. how's that going? something happens somewhere and a few hours later you see on tv what happened and you think, there needs to be action, there needs to be solidarity. then it turns out to be deafeningly quiet. we are stuck between the national state and the european bureaucracies. the annoying thing is that there is no communication about that at the moment either. it has been stuck in the council for two years, but it cannot be that we do not get the finger behind the blockade and that we do not hear alternatives. that's the big point. in six months' time, parliament will be dissolved. then there will be a new parliament and we will have to hand over this dossier to the appropriate bodies with good proposals in hand. the french presidency is doing everything, but they have not done anything on this point. we have not done anything on this point and we are asking for an explanation. i do have a compliment for the european commission. mrs hübner and her colleagues have indeed drawn on the file and it must be possible to draw it out with united forces. it's naming and shaming. this is where we say: the council and the french presidency have failed.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - the environment committee believes it is important to be a reliable public authority. that doesn't mean you can't make big changes, but you have to announce them well in advance and have alternatives for people. last year the european commission presented a communication on the state of health of the common agricultural policy. the agricultural policy should be radically reformed. the aim was to cut direct subsidies sharply and to increase returns in terms of environmental protection and employment. we are ultimately disappointed in the way the proposals have been drawn up, because we believe that they mainly involve a few insignificant savings on direct subsidies. farmers should not be subsidized according to past yield or land ownership. the environment committee wants this to be done for the public services they provide, such as biodiversity enhancement and water management, and for their work on the environment, animal welfare and food safety that goes beyond the legal obligations. we want this to happen by 2020. tonight we're going to talk about the decline of the bee population. to reverse this, less spraying will be required and biodiversity will have to be promoted by buffer zones, and in this context, genetic engineering and also intensive one-sided agriculture are a problem. i hope that both tonight and this morning we will be committed to an agriculture where arable farming and nature are mutually reinforcing.
madam president, it is well known. i'm not so enthusiastic about all the health-check proposals. let's say i was a farmer and i had calculated in 2005 what i could expect to see until 2013. i can now expect - to put it a little more bluntly - 8% less from the modulation, 10% less from the national reserve and potentially 9% less from the capping of the high income supplements. that's a 27% reduction in the total. how can the average farmer in the future expect a european government to keep its promise? mrs buitenweg said the 27% was insignificant. i think it's a big part of what's promised. i am therefore also against this modulation and i would like to see the capping of these total income supplements much more limited. i think that we should take one opportunity with regard to this national reserve, and that is to develop as soon as possible a system of insurance against animal and plant diseases throughout europe. sooner or later, with the increased travel of people, another contagious animal disease will break out in europe and we are not prepared for it from a budgetary point of view. if that were to happen again, i would not know where the commission would get the money today in the future. it has to be through an insurance system. the milk quotas are a matter of concern. we can only see that more and more new markets are developing internationally. i think it is not a good thing for europe that we say to the americans or the brazilians, for example, that this market is for you. we must also take part in this and that is why a soft landing of milk quotas is necessary. we could take three measures: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in the 1960s the dutchman sicco mansholt, a leading member of my party, shaped the european agricultural policy and we are proud of that. his vision was to ensure that all europeans had enough and safe food and that farmers had a decent income. and those are the ideals that i will defend here again with all my heart and soul. but a lot has changed in the last 50 years: rapidly growing world population, climate change, globalisation, unfair trade and food price speculation, see the recent food crisis. the debate on the health check is mainly about means, instruments and cleverly devised exceptions. i regret that the larger picture is being overlooked in the run-up to 2013. it is time for an intelligent update of our agricultural policy in which we retain mansholt's ideals but throw away the outdated parts. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is high time for fair trade and more attention to sustainability, health and innovative solutions to the challenges we really face. we owe that to the rest of the world, to our future generations and to the taxpayers of europe.
mr president, we have heard a lot this morning in this long debate. fortunately, i was able to offer the commissioner a portion of school fruit this morning before we started, so i hope that with that snack we can continue on this important subject. i'm going straight from school fruit to milk. apart from the discussion of all sorts of technical instruments, i do not think it is possible to explain to the european citizen that we have paid 340 million euros in surcharges in the past year, while we are all together almost 1% below the european quota. we shall have to put an end to this lack of logic in the council. i would also like to say that the commission's proposal for an annual increase of 1% in the quota is very meagre in my view and may well be half-filled in the council of ministers. the 1% is not a good indicator of the opportunities that we have within the eu and on the world market. the argument i have heard before in this debate that our quota system would automatically guarantee us a good price is far too short for me. the price developments since 1984 also show this clearly. of course, mega-corporations like the united states are unthinkable in our country. we will have to keep safety nets for very bad years and for unforeseen circumstances, such as animal diseases. i would also like to ask the european commission - and i think this is equally important - to look at the distribution of returns in the food production chain. while supermarkets are currently operating at economic margins of about 20% and intermediaries at margins of almost 10%, many primary producers - the farmers - without whom bread cannot be put on the shelves, are currently operating at negative returns. but back to the main line. i told you, this is about our daily bread. food security must therefore be at the forefront of this debate, but especially in the debate on agricultural policy after 2013. because the last thing i think we need is to find ourselves as dependent on the far-away world for our daily bread as we are for energy.
in writing. − on 23 october 2008, in my explanation of vote on the 2009 budget, i called attention to the usefulness of eu intervention in providing school pupils with fruit. a school fruit program can be helpful in preventing children from becoming overweight and unhealthy. the question is why the eu should be the one to provide this instead of the municipalities organising the education. the eu funds now pay the member states, which are obliged to add an amount to the funds themselves, after which the municipalities are responsible for the implementation. the main result of this approach is a lot of red tape and cumbersome bureaucracy. the amount has already been doubled to eur 182 million in the recent budgetary procedure and will be 500 million in the future as a result of the busk report. the dutch minister for agriculture, who is in favour of the present system, has announced in the press that she does not find this enormous increase useful and will fight it. since it is not parliament but the council that decides on this, it is to be expected that this increase will not take place. meanwhile, in public opinion, the school fruit is becoming a symbol of the eu's wrong priorities.
president. - i have one point to make. it is true that europe must play a greater role on the world stage - this has been said by several people - but it must also speak with one voice and not in the fragmented way it does today. the major member states will have to come to terms with the fact that we must now act together as a european union. the leading role in the regulation, re-regulation, supervision and improvement of financial markets was not conceived by gordon brown or nicolas sarkozy, but by the european institutions. the lines now drawn must be defended from europe as well. apart from the agenda for the financial markets, all attention must now be directed to the economic crisis that is coming. all the lights are on red. here too we must take action internationally, but also within europe, with a stronger european action, with a european rescue plan. that's got to be more than a little bit more of the same, but that's got to be a real turnaround. the economists of bruegel have also really fallen from their faith and now advocate that more should be spent. the restraint must be transformed into a policy of encouragement. i think that what they are proposing, that one percentage point, is far too little and that we will not get there with the 1% vat reduction they are proposing, because the figures for the reduction are much higher. in the netherlands, for example, construction is down by 20%, so i think we should apply the low vat rate there to ensure that there is a boost in the housing market, all over europe.
president, commissioner, as coordinator of the epp for regional policy, i want to be very active in thinking about solutions. europe must now come up with a programme of action. i also support mr barroso's position on this. the investments from the structural and cohesion funds - the european budget is already 60 billion a year, which is doubled to 120 billion in the national member states - also offer an opportunity to be active, to be more flexible and to speed up. this is a matter of targeted investment, both in the lisbon - knowledge - and gothenburg - energy and ecology - lines. it's about jobs, it's always about jobs. it is about re-skilling people who lose their jobs so that they can join this new economy. only with such an attitude and with those well-trained people will we get a new perspective after the crisis. the present programme should be noted for a number of points. for example, the 2007-2013 regulations can provide flexibility. funds may be transferred within operational programmes in the member states themselves. the money that has not been committed - and this is a very large sum - can be spent more quickly. we can now put into action the position adopted by parliament, namely to use the unused funds from the n+1, n+2 and n+3 resources in the current period and possibly the free funds from the previous period. we ask the european commission - and i know that mrs hübner is working on it - to come up with an adjustment package to show the citizens before the elections next year that there is a real power in this. we are happy to wait for those proposals now with the call to respond quickly. i would like to thank the commission for its work so far, but i think it will have to be improved. parliament is prepared to do that.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, firstly i shall say something about the procedure. it is a pity that we did not discuss it this morning, commissioner, when we were sitting together, because i was a bit surprised that you are so harsh now in your speech to parliament. on the procedure, i am particularly harsh on the way that the french presidency has dealt with our proposals, in not meeting any requirements to negotiate or try to have a dialogue on a possible compromise. it is the same for the commission. with these types of issues it is normal to try to get together and find a solution that meets the concerns of the different parties. i regret that this has happened, and i hope that in the time between the plenary and the vote in committee there will be an opportunity to do that. on the content, i think we do not differ so much. i am also very much committed to relief of administrative burdens. i am always pushing for the xbrl system in accounting and this type of electronic platform. i think we all agree that it is necessary, precisely because in some member states the electronic society is not yet completely in place. it is necessary to have this temporary transitional solution so member states still have the option of using this type of paper registration. this is really a temporary problem and there could be a pragmatic solution. i heard this week that it is only 20 years since e-mail was first used and since the first internet connection, so in 10 to 20 years’ time it will be completely normal for everything to be processed electronically. it is only a very temporary problem that we are facing and we should not make a big issue of it. we should try to find a reasonable, pragmatic solution in the spirit of what you are always telling us you want also.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, there are times when politicians might like to influence statistics – particularly at the moment. if the statistics on the economy are so bad, you might wish to take them away and dream that it is different and that this does not influence the spirit of consumers etc. i fully agree with what everyone says about this report: that decent, true and fair statistics are an important instrument for politics and that this is an important reason to have independent statistical bodies to present these statistics. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on the proposals on this regulation. we had good cooperation with the council to reach compromises on what we have stated in this document. it is important to have these independent bodies to have a clear contact point for the commission in the member states and for this european system of statistics to include the statistics code of practice, which has been elaborated by the experts, into european legislation. i think this is a good achievement and i hope that it will really work and help us to overcome the bad statistics and really try to face the recession that is coming and get clearer measures to counter it.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the support they have given in most of their speeches to the decisions and proposals of the commission on the subject under discussion. i would like to make three very quick comments on three of the issues that have been raised in your speeches. firstly, i agree with mr becsey's concern about the risks of household and business borrowing in foreign currency in countries with a floating exchange rate and risks of excessive exchange rate volatility, as has been the case in hungary. i am very concerned, mr becsey, that the budgetary and economic surveillance we carry out in the commission is sometimes not sufficiently listened to or taken into account, or does not have the desired effect when comments are made on such risks. we are, i think, more effective in budgetary surveillance. the case of hungary is very positive in this respect, because of the very significant budgetary adjustment that has taken place in that country since 2006. but we have not succeeded in the risks of borrowing in foreign currency. i hope that in future, under the circumstances, not only in hungary but in other countries of the european union, resulting from the crisis and the excessive volatility in many financial indicators and in particular in exchange rates, this kind of comments and recommendations will be more widely heard. mr lundgren is no longer here, but he has made comments which do not correspond at all to reality. i criticised hungary and the commission for recommending that hungary should have a fixed exchange rate, and here the opposite is exactly the case, i.e. the exchange rate in hungary is floating and excessive exchange rate volatility has aggravated the problems and has been one of the elements that has caused the crisis that has prompted the request for this aid. so when you make critical comments, they should be based on good information and not on totally wrong information and, above all, if you had stayed here in the debate until the end, you might have been aware that your information was totally wrong. since that has not been the case, i hope that one of your honourable members will inform mr lundgren. finally, in connection with mr rübig's comments on the deficit, it is not true that hungary has a 5% deficit. the reduction of the deficit has been much more important. in 2008 the deficit will be clearly below these figures, it will be below 3%, and in the commitment that hungary has made as a condition of this aid, the deficit target for next year is 2,6%. so if these deficit reduction targets are met - and i hope they are met - hungary will have other problems, and certainly it has and will continue to have them, unfortunately, but next year it will no longer have an excessive deficit.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to make a point of order on behalf of the green group with regard to the debate and vote tomorrow on regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on the functioning of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). this is the graßle report. it has come to my attention that the commission is considering stopping the current process of revising the regulation in the light of the recent revelations of irregularities within olaf. the commission would therefore like to withdraw the present proposals during the co-decision process with parliament. i would ask you, on behalf of the green group, to ask the commission whether this is the case and whether it will make a statement on this before the start of the debate tomorrow, so that the european parliament will know whether the debate and the vote still make sense.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the situation in the eastern congo. my interlocutor is familiar with the state of emergency in both north and south kivu. his account, without wishing to hide the misery in the region, offers some hopeful points of light. the light is certainly that the congolese presidential guard, in cooperation with the police, arrested government soldiers who were looting more than a week ago. a hopeful sign of a beginning of law enforcement by the congolese government. this is a development which deserves our full european encouragement and support. it is also a bright spot that rebel leader nkunda has so far failed to mobilize or recruit tutsis in south kivu for his power aspirations. my spokesman sees this as a positive expression of tutsi identification with the congolese state and civilian population. a third point of light is the church's reconciliation initiatives at local and provincial level. these platforms involve not only the traditional authorities, the tribal representatives, but also the elected authorities. these platforms in north and south kivu deserve twofold european support: financial assistance and expertise in conflict resolution. the involvement of local authorities, again both groups of local authorities, traditional tribal representatives and elected authorities, is crucial for the provision of humanitarian aid in both kivu areas. my spokesman emphasizes from personal experience that these structures of authority, despite all the conflicts of war, continue to function even under flight conditions. this is why we are urgently calling for the provision of cash to the masses of refugees in the villages of north and south kivu, as well as to the villagers themselves. because in the words of my insider, "if you have money, you can always get food. miraculously, there's always a market somewhere. in the congo, working with cash handouts, giving money away, is quite possible. it doesn't make the population dependent. she can now decide for herself how to spend her money. you're stimulating the local economy and you're taking advantage of it. to make this happen, we will talk to the elected village committees who will identify those most in need". after such a conversation, mr president, and with such a heartwarming european commitment to reconciliation, there must be a future for north and south kivu, indeed for the whole of the congo. i warmly urge the council, the commission, the european parliament and the european institutions to do the same.
mr president, it is significant that the commissioner for industry is here and not the commissioner for competition. i have serious reservations about supporting the car industry. the problems are undeniably very serious. but why support the car industry and not other sectors? the problems may have been exacerbated, but they were certainly not caused by the credit crisis, and state aid should not be a reward for bad behaviour. the eu treaty does allow for rescue aid, but we cannot use taxpayers' money to support struggling industries. let us also not forget that a lot of money has been put into bailing out car manufacturers in recent years and not always with the same success. yes, we have a short-term responsibility for jobs that are on the way, but we also have a long-term responsibility to leave to future generations a healthy economy, a healthy environment, but also healthy public finances. i think it is a bit bittersweet, mr president, that for years there has been no money for health care, no money for education, no money for childcare and no money for the environment and that we are now being asked to put billions into saving the car industry. so if aid is given, mr president, it is with very strict conditions in terms of the compensation of the car industry in the form of restructuring and only for future-oriented, environmentally friendly and innovative activities. because, finally, mr president, state aid may save some firms, but it can also destroy others by distorting competition.
mr president, with all the justified criticism we can have of the car industry and the way the commission has operated, we cannot avoid paying attention to the car industry, because there is a dramatic decline, just as there is in the housing sector. all the lights are red, so we have to intervene. timely, temporary and targeted. i want to emphasize three things: it should not be just the big car manufacturers, but also the suppliers and the financing companies. the restructuring must be geared to cleaner, more efficient cars and coordinated at european level. no single action by member states which exacerbates the problems of their neighbours. this is particularly important for the subcontractors, because they really do work across borders. they operate within the internal market and must therefore benefit equally from the measures, and not just at national level. the european commission must then ensure that the level playing field is maintained. i therefore agree with the role assigned to the competition dg in this.
i would like to say that i agree with what has already been said by rebecca harms. the support needed for the car industry is really a symbol of a failed industrial policy. for years, there has been talk of the need to prepare the automotive industry for the 21st century, and that has not happened. the automobile industry has repeatedly turned a deaf ear to calls for cleaner and more economical production. in the end, none of that came to pass. the car industry has done nothing to innovate to produce lower co2 and still the lobby continues to weaken the carbon requirements of the car industry. that's too bad. the question is a little bit, what now? i think we can continue to support the car industry, but that we must have very strict requirements and that we must only really support electric cars, a whole programme to enable the electrification of the car industry and, of course, the retraining of workers. because it is very, very important that there is a future for the workers in the automobile industry. we must never forget that.
in writing. the health check of the common agricultural policy is a large and important dossier. whether we like it or not, we are setting the direction for agricultural policy after 2013. i would like to make two points. unbundled aid will make agriculture more market-oriented and therefore more competitive and innovative, but we must not move towards a fully liberalised agricultural market. let's not throw away the umbrella when the sun is shining. we must set up intervention mechanisms, insurance, etc., so that they do not disturb the market but at the same time provide a real safety net. the proposals to transfer substantial sums to the second pillar by modulation do not have my support. the first pillar funds appear to be better spent than rural development funds. i also see all sorts of problems with co-financing in relation to a level playing field.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it seems as though conservatives and socialists are hand in glove with each other on the blue card, leaving my group lost in amazement, to be honest. for a while now, the eu has been trying to come up with a comprehensive package on migration, including measures to tackle illegal migration as well as measures to push europe’s forward-looking strategy on legal migration. you might remember the very emotional debate on the return directive. at the time, the alde group said that the return policy could not be looked upon in an isolated way: it should be seen as an integral part – a necessary part – of a total package for migration, which is still very true. today, we finally have the chance to give a strong message on the need for better opportunities for legal migration, to address the demands of businesses in urgent need of qualified workers. the fact that we could not expect too much from the epp on legal migration is unfortunate, but could in a way be foreseen. the fact that the pse is, broadly speaking, happily in line with the epp on the blue card amendments makes my hair stand on end. following the vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the scheme has been watered down significantly. far too many restrictions have been introduced, which do not help in any way when trying to make the eu more attractive to highly qualified workers. it must be clear that the intention of the blue card is to increase the competitiveness of the eu economy. the blue card proposal is not an easy attempt to take the best and leave the rest, thereby creating a brain drain from developing countries. the current trend is that the vast majority of the highly qualified workers emigrate to the us, canada or australia instead of the eu. if we want to reverse this trend, we have to be ambitious. this house is about to adopt a report that would weaken an already very modest commission proposal even further. to be clear, the alde group is a very strong supporter of the blue card. however, we feel that the current text does not bring about the much-needed change for legal migration but that it confirms member states’ protectionist practices instead. we all know that the council has been excellent in making ambitious statements, but we also know that, too often, effective decision-making is constrained by the inability of the member states to really work together in their mutual interest and that effective decision-making in this field is being undermined by a very emotional and muddled debate on legal migration, owing to a lack of focus. the tampere programme, the hague programme, the french immigration pact, the stockholm programme coming up – at the end of the day it all comes down to the transposition of these basic commitments into concrete and effective measures. if we want the eu to benefit from the proposed scheme, we have to be ambitious and therefore i hope you will vote accordingly tomorrow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the european union's labour market. the commission proposal does not bring about a simple procedure, and that suggestion is being raised. in addition to the commission proposal, national schemes for skilled migrants will remain in force and additional requirements may be required. what is the added value of the european regulation? this is not an answer to the demands of educational institutions and businesses. they want a single system for workers and students from outside the european union, and that will create additional administrative burdens, whereas less was promised. i would like to advocate leaving immigration policy to the member states, so that each member state can have its own clear procedure. we can then make agreements within the eu on whether people should be allowed to travel freely and settle elsewhere.
mr president, we have finally taken an important step. europe is agreeing on the conditions for a single system for recruiting top talent. that's the added value of this card. this step is necessary, but as far as i am concerned it is only the first. with the experience of the blue card in motion, we must look at the next steps in a new mandate. at the same time, mr president, we are living in turbulent times. in the short term, redundancies may be necessary as a result of the financial crisis. it is therefore important that the system of blue cards, as described in mrs klamt's report, leaves room for national member states' policies. member states should be able to decide how many skilled migrants are needed and to work in their own countries without causing a brain drain in sensitive sectors such as health care in third countries. but we also have to look ahead. europe is in dire need of skilled migrants. the best solution is therefore to make the blue card scheme as simple as possible, so that it can actually attract talent. i think we can find that solution in the present proposal, thanks in part to the amendments tabled by the pse group. for example, it is important that people who are already legally resident in the eu do not have to return to their country of origin to apply for a blue card for an eu member state if they meet the other conditions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this crisis will increase the pressure on our social systems. the expected growth in unemployment may lead to some relaxation in the labour market in the short term. in the long term, however, this will not solve the problems of ageing outlined above. if the deterioration of the economy increases the pressure on the older worker to leave the labour market early, we fall back on the old mistake. the emphasis now and in the future should be on flexible voluntary retirement combined with the organisation of work so that longer working lives become a real option. the financial crisis has once again demonstrated why we need to be responsible with our pension funds. the sustainability of the pension system, adapted to demographic and economic developments and based on risk-averse long-term investment strategies, should be given high priority. the european commission should also work on the regulation and supervision of pan-european pension products.
i would like to thank the court of auditors for the report, and i too can see that it is getting better every year, more readable, clearer, etc. indeed, progress is being made every year. only the progress is very small. we can now reassure the eurosceptics a little by saying that the bills have been approved for the first time. however, if we look at the improvements in the accounts, they are small. we've just crossed that critical threshold to say that we're done. if we read the words from 2006 and 2007, there's not really that much difference. i admit, however, that there is an improvement. the commission stresses that budget implementation has improved considerably over the years. she says that in 2002 and 2003 only 4% of expenditure was approved, and this percentage is now over 45%. indeed, it could be said that this is a considerable improvement. i fear that this is mainly because of the radical changes in agricultural policy. if the agricultural policy had continued on its old course, i wonder if we would have reached a 40% approval margin. i don't think he did. this is a matter of great concern, because the essential techniques of the commission do not yet meet international standards and they still need major improvements. progress over the last four years has been too slow for me. it is a pity that we cannot yet measure the results of the action plan. the commission did a lot of work on this at the beginning of the period. it was an excellent method. we have all admitted it, but unfortunately we have seen little of the results. i agree with mr bösch that what the commission has done with the national declarations is disappointing. this was all the more surprising because last year the commission said quite clearly that it was not going to implement the agreement. fortunately, the commission has reversed its course. we must not forget, however, that this is an agreement signed by the council, the commission and parliament. it is not possible for one of the parties to say that it will not implement the agreement. i wonder what directives the commission has given to implement the agreement. what are the results so far of the discussions with the member states on the implementation of article 44? all these things will have to be examined in detail in the months ahead. we will then have to decide whether to grant discharge to the commission in april or to postpone it for six months.
i would also like to thank the court of auditors for presenting the annual report and the commission for its response. but despite the positive sounding of the accounting side, we are facing the same situation as in previous years. the commission has already taken action on cohesion, including through the european commission's action plan, and the error rate has been reduced somewhat from 12 to 11%, but this is clearly not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. i do think that we should be more strict in punishing countries which have not properly implemented this integrated control system for more than ten years now, by means of progressive financial corrections. the situation is less optimistic in rural development. as far as i am concerned, mr mcguinness has already said, that was a clear call to the council of agriculture ministers, which met recently, not to go too fast when it comes to transferring funds from agricultural policy to rural policy. i have now come to understand that the council has taken a somewhat less vigorous approach than the commission would have liked, but the modulation now proposed is nevertheless substantial. so much for the problems. now for the solutions. i have heard the court of auditors speak in loose terms about balancing control costs, about simplification, about clear objectives. all very well and good, but both the european commission and the court of auditors know very well that the problem is that 80% of expenditure is co-managed by the member states. it is therefore obvious that the solution should also be sought through these member states. i am therefore surprised that neither the court of auditors nor the european commission has mentioned national management declarations. i would remind the commissioner that in the context of the previous discharge he promised to work for these statements and i would like to know whether he has done so and what evidence there is to prove it, because i have not seen it. since these declarations are a learning process for us, i think it is important to look at the current annual reports and national declarations in terms of their quality and to learn from them. i am sure that the european commission will be able to help us in the coming months.
chairman, catch the eye. i think this is a subject that many citizens have in mind. the lack of approval, that's the thing about making mistakes. even after all these years, you have to ask yourself if there are any imperfections in the system that you should be doing something about. mr ferber pointed out that countries which persistently fail to meet the obligations of transparency and own responsibility should be approached with a different approach to financing. he said that you could do this by providing the funds on the condition that they would be spent definitively at a later date. i feel like it. the countries must choose, especially when it comes to the structural funds, agriculture and rural renewal.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). as a large proportion of expenditure is related to the common agricultural policy and the regional funds, the union is being screened. the responsibility is thereby shared with others, who consider the promised money as their own. the collection of funds at central level and their subsequent distribution to stakeholder groups or to projects in municipalities or provinces makes control more difficult. this week we invited the council to agree to more money for school fruit. such a scheme is useful for children's health, but it is best organised at a small, local level rather than at the most large-scale level we know of in europe. we may be able to reduce the risk of fraud considerably by concentrating the cash flow on budget support or equalisation contributions for the poorer regions, with the sole criterion that the inhabitants of those areas should be given as much opportunity as possible to continue living and working in their area of origin. the elimination of income disparities, the creation of jobs and the establishment of good facilities will make much labour migration unnecessary. that also reduces the resulting problems. we're not that far along. as long as expenditure remains susceptible to fraud, extensive control and anti-fraud measures are needed. it is not enough to have a lot of money and a lot of staff. the only way for olaf to function properly is if it is able to be completely independent and critical of the commission and the council. the appointment of the current director was based on a recommendation by an independent selection panel which advised on the seven most suitable candidates. the commission had already identified the current director as its preferred candidate. he is also said to want to exert too much influence on the selection of his associates so that they become too dependent on him. all this does not contribute to confidence in the seriousness of the fight against fraud. many voters see this confused europe as a fraudulent haven. in addition, whistleblowers are found to be unable to safely pass on their fraud information to olaf. if their role is revealed, they could be fired as punishment for breaching the secrecy. in addition, too often the press is left to expose a scandal and criminal offences may be out of date. the hearing and the hearing back are not properly arranged either. too many studies are delayed or stopped before a satisfactory result is achieved. the grau report is the first small step in the right direction. it could lead to a degree of autonomy for olaf, less control of the way the european commission works and better protection for those concerned. my group supports these first steps, but we have no illusions that they will solve the problem. the monitoring committee will have to be further strengthened and the codecision on the amendment of this regulation no 1073/1999 should not be delayed or stopped.
i am sorry to hear that. on the proposal of rapporteur gräβle, further powers are unknowingly granted to olaf, while olaf is not in control. in 1999, the then committee of wise men predicted that olaf would not work as an internal commission service with an incompetent supervisory committee. we're seeing the consequences. unhindered by accountability and control, olaf management, and especially its director-general, repeatedly makes mistakes. manipulated selection of personnel, violation of the rights of the defence, concealment of evidence and filing of criminal files with expired prosecution periods. the pièce de résistance is the accusation of bribery made up by olaf against a journalist who, in olaf's opinion, was overly informed. olaf even succeeds in obtaining a search warrant and the journalist's belongings are confiscated. then olaf lied for years about the real effort to the commission, parliament, the court of justice, the ombudsman and the public prosecutors in belgium and germany. olaf even sends its own investigators on a spree of false information. how far can this go? the commission is aware of this and must stop it, but says it has no power to do so. the commission is therefore withdrawing this proposal. it was done in good faith, as you said. however, the progress in understanding the current abuses makes it necessary to exercise a different kind of supervision over olaf and to abandon one of the options you have indicated. the solution is an independent olaf, separate from the commission and under competent supervision, which is not appointed by politicians but by the public prosecutors of the member states. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the environment is rightly high on the agenda. but it is not just the production of legislation that is important, but also the implementation of that legislation. that is where the problems are. the implementation of environmental policy is already failing, as the information from the european commission shows. the current policy on environmental inspection is contained in the recommendation, which is interpreted quite differently in different member states. information also indicates that environmental inspections are not carried out in full. all this means that despite existing environmental legislation, the environment does not always benefit from it. if we want the quality of the environment to improve, we must ensure that the implementation of the legislation is properly monitored. commissioner, you said you were offering your credentials in the environmental field. there's still some work to be done on that. i myself was rapporteur for a regulation on shipments of waste in 2007 and before that. there's a lot of room for improvement. in the context of better implementation of environmental policy, do you wish to make the existing recommendation binding?
madam president, i will be very brief. i thank the council for its statement. i would like to say that – on behalf of the shadows of the other groups as well – i think the european parliament is a serious partner, fully available to give input in this process. however, we will only issue a formal position once there are full, satisfactory and detailed answers to all the concerns and objections that were raised on several occasions by the european parliament, the european data protection supervisor, the national data protection authorities, the fundamental rights agencies and the airlines, because i think they are entitled to a real answer. council has often pledged its commitment to the reforms of the lisbon treaty. i would ask the council, in the absence of those reforms, to act in the spirit of the lisbon treaty and to follow the recommendations of this house or to explain – not so much to the european parliament but to the european citizens. eight years after nice, decision-making on these issues in the area of police and justice cooperation unfortunately still takes place behind closed doors, not subject to any meaningful democratic scrutiny. therefore i wish that the member states would show the same determination, courage and resolve to democratic reforms as they did in the financial crisis. finally, i appeal to my colleagues to endorse this resolution and give a very clear political signal to the council. (applause)
in writing. − on behalf of alde i would like to state the reasons for our abstention on the final vote. to be clear: alde is a strong supporter of the blue card. however, alde feels that the scheme has been watered down significantly. far too many restrictions have been introduced. the eu’s immigration package is supposed to have two pillars: combating illegal immigration and creating better opportunities for legal migration at the same time. the proposal as amended by this house does not bring about the much needed change but confirms member states’ protectionist practices instead. by adopting this report, parliament has weakened an already very modest ec proposal. a missed opportunity! the current trend is that the vast majority of highly qualified workers migrate to the usa, canada or australia instead of the eu. if we want to reverse this trend, we have to be ambitious. the current text is simply off-putting to most highly qualified workers considering legal immigration to the eu and thus does not help in any way in efforts to make the eu more attractive for highly qualified workers. political courage is urgently needed.
in writing. − most people want to continue living and working in the area where they grew up and speak the language. there are two main reasons why people leave their homeland. the first is that they risk being imprisoned or killed. to escape that fate, they become refugees. the second is poverty. people move to areas where wages are higher, even if they do not receive full pay, if their jobs are insecure, if they are poorly housed and do not have good prospects. changing expectations about demographic trends and the shortage of people for certain occupations are leading to a sudden return to the usefulness of immigration. the refugees who come to eu countries spontaneously out of dire necessity are increasingly unwelcome, but those with a high level of education and a chance to do so are encouraged to come. with this sort of selection, we extract these knowledge workers to the countries where they were trained. those countries need these people the most. without these people, they cannot make good the shortfalls that are the cause of their poverty. if a blue card causes brain drain, that's bad for europe and the whole world.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). instead of trying to help those who have harmed their fellowman or society as a whole to function as better people, revenge is taken by letting the condemned die. that is an irreversible decision, sometimes even based on a miscarriage of justice. it is even more terrible when we are not dealing with the punishment of exceptional crimes. in nigeria, it is more a mixture of poor judicial organization and administrative chaos. in addition, the northern states are increasingly concerned with the perpetuation of primitive fundamentalist views. it assumes that the man of god has been commissioned to clean up his sinful fellowmen. unlike somalia, whose waste was discussed in the previous item, nigeria is a functioning state. but it is a state of separate states, overseen by a central authority that has often been taken over by military coups. at the moment, things seem to be better in nigeria, without dictatorship and without violent conflicts as they were in the past. a number of areas in the north, like iran, parts of somalia and north-west pakistan, are the test ground for a return to the middle ages. it's also a form of class justice. the convicts are mostly poor people without legal aid. we must do everything we can to save these people from chaos, arbitrariness and fanaticism.
mr president, i am sorry but i am not completely familiar with the rules. can we not simply vote? we cannot avoid voting because we do not have 45, or i do not know how many members necessary. we cannot avoid voting because that is the requirement when you leave. surely we can vote on the oral amendments? can we just vote on the parts on disputed ownership and then see if it has the majority or not?
mr president, you thought we were in complete agreement and that we understood each other, but i had a different question. i understand that we cannot avoid voting on the amendment because we do not have sufficient members, but surely we should be able to vote on the parts proposed by mr tannock? that means that we should vote only on the text ‘may pave’ and only when that has been done should we decide on the rest of recital d. it is a bit strange that, just because you do not have 45 people here, you have to include something which might not have the majority of the house.
president. - i think it is a bit cynical that in recent years there has never been enough money for education, health care, innovation and the environment, but now it is raining billions. the best plan for the future is a strong european market and sound public finances, because we must not destroy the legacy of future generations. the private debt crisis cannot simply be exchanged for public debt. the commission must stand firm in its strict adherence to the stability pact and the state aid rules, and i therefore welcome the statements made by mr almunia and mrs kroes. because not only bankers, ladies and gentlemen, but politicians too must be careful with the money of the people. the money presses are not the problem, but the lisbon strategy must be accelerated, because there is still a lot of profit to be made. for example: a free market in services can create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. free and clear. i therefore find it strange that the member states are in such a hurry to implement the services directive. a rescue plan for the growing number of school leavers without a degree is at least as badly needed as for failed savers. because without a degree, these young people have no credit in life. another solution: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because business has never delivered its promised 2% share, but now it is getting billions of dollars in support. finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the free market, things can go very wrong. rules and the market master are therefore necessary. but it is out of proportion to the economic and social ruins left behind in various experiments with nationalism and socialist state economy.
the european parliament has in the past, in a number of resolutions, strongly advocated the development of a long-term strategy for the integration of the roma in europe. the past year has shown that more needs to be done in this area, first of all by the member states but also by the european union. the council will shortly be dealing with this matter again. this alone is a signal that our government leaders rightly attach great political importance to effective policies to combat discrimination against the roma and their social and economic exclusion. the commission is also very concerned about this. in september, it organised the first roma summit, which allowed representatives of the member states, the commission itself and, in particular, representatives of roma civil society to make recommendations for a european roma policy. as part of the european roma strategy, a high-level political meeting should become an annual event. to check the progress of the policy, to exchange positive experiences, but also - if necessary - to make critical notes. i hope the commissioner can make that commitment today. but more needs to be done. the european council should therefore give a clear and concrete mandate to the commission to develop a broad strategic and long-term policy framework to break the vicious circle of exclusion in which generations of european roma are trapped. there is no reason to wait any longer to propose policies. what needs to be done is clear. numerous studies and policy recommendations have identified bottlenecks. the european parliament's resolutions give a clear and concrete overview of possible policy initiatives.
i think the problems of the roma are comparable to the problems between whites and blacks in the united states. they have solved it - at least partially - and with obama's victory they have taken a big step. europe is still a disgrace. i don't know what else to call it. why did we all pass that resolution in the plenary in january? there was a reason for that. the resolution stated, among other things, that we were calling for a roma unit within the commission, for a european roma strategy, a general approach with cooperation between the member states and the commission, for a roma to roma approach, as the osce knows. nothing came of it, except a summit where there was even more talk without the cooperation and cooperation of the roma. i can tell you that the roma community, with whom i have worked closely for ten years, was extremely dissatisfied with the result. i am sorry, commissioner špidla, that i cannot be happy with your platform, which i see as yet another place where talks will take place, albeit at a high level, in the context of bilateral meetings. we've had enough of this. if there's anything we need, it's action. i read an article recently that started with: we're going to have a massacre. there are uniformed civil guards in various european states who are provoking the roma population. should we wait until we have situations like in italy, where entire camps go up in flames?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, i wholeheartedly support all the efforts of the council and the commission to intensify relations with the jewish state of israel in the mutual interest; i myself consider that the postponement of the vote is a completely wrong signal. nevertheless, mr president-in-office, i have very mixed feelings about you. the reason is the leak of a council document to the israeli press, to the daily newspaper ha'aretz (see last monday's edition). based on the leaked document, i have three questions for you. is it true that the title of the document is 'a strategy for peace in the middle east, the way forward'? if so, will you force israel to reopen palestinian institutions such as orient house in jerusalem? finally, the question is: if that is the case, how do you intend to combine that with improving relations with any newly elected israeli government? i look forward to your answer.
first of all, i should like to pay tribute to the french presidency for the haste it has shown in drawing the right conclusions from this small business act so that we can really get down to business. we as a parliament have responded immediately by adjusting our procedure. because in this time of economic crisis we really need to set sail for smes in europe. that's why the small business act is so important. we must make much better use of the potential of entrepreneurs in europe. i would like to draw particular attention to female entrepreneurship here today. because it is a curious paradox. women are much better at it. women entrepreneurs are much less likely to go bankrupt, the figures show. however, it is still much more difficult for women entrepreneurs to access credit and to start a business. it's got to get easier. it's badly needed. this means that women entrepreneurs must have greater access to finance and to existing funds. micro-credit is also a very important tool for improving the economic status and independence of women. and for women from minority groups. this has become much more difficult in these times of economic crisis, when banks are less willing to lend, and that is why it is important to have the guarantee facilities of the european investment bank available for these micro-credits and for women entrepreneurs. it is important, mr president, that women can start their own small businesses so that they can combine work and family life. that is also very important for the epp group. it is good that the council's conclusions already pay particular attention to women entrepreneurs. keep it up, i say.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we have unfortunately had to note that, at the 10th anniversary of the eu code of conduct on arms exports, no progress has been made in converting this voluntary code into a legally binding instrument. the european parliament has for years called for the code of conduct to be transposed into legislation binding on the member states, taking into account the increasing internationalisation of the arms industry. the european parliament is currently examining a proposal for a directive aimed at creating an internal market for defence products. the pse group calls for greater transparency and effective sanctions in the event of non-compliance. our group has once again made reference to the code of conduct, but the lack of a legal framework means that we can only call on the member states to act in the spirit of the code of conduct. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. last year alone, western countries sold an estimated $42 billion worth of arms to developing countries; half of which comes from european soil. this has to be different. the european union must set an example in this area.
in the past few weeks, we have been very busy with the negotiations on the climate and energy package. it has taken a lot of time, but i think it is worth it. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the enormous effort they have made and encourage them to continue to push for an ambitious agreement in the next two weeks. i would also like to thank the presidency and the commission for the unremitting efforts they have made during the negotiations. i sometimes get the impression that the presidency has great difficulty in moving towards the european parliament's position in terms of substance. that could damage the ambitions of the climate package. however, i am fully aware of the difficult task of the presidency in reaching consensus within the council, especially as a number of member states are taking advantage of the financial crisis to relax efforts on climate and energy. a regrettable course of action. if we delay ambition, it's going to cost us a lot more. we have to get out now. i therefore call on the presidency to stick to the promising efforts agreed at the european council in the spring of 2007 and 2008. in the light of the poznan climate conference, which started this week and which we will be attending next week with an eu delegation, it is very important to maintain ambition. in bali, we promised the rest of the world that we would come up with a comprehensive climate package, and we should not be ashamed of those expectations. if those expectations are disappointed, the european union will lose its confidence, and this will disrupt the progress of the negotiations for a new climate treaty. the planet earth has been entrusted to man as its steward. it is our mission to undo the damage we have done to creation, wherever possible.
mr. president, emotions are running high as the climate package nears completion. some argue that the climate can wait, at least until the crisis is over. but that's not a good idea. first, it is absolutely essential that we act quickly against global warming. the reports are that the warming is happening faster than expected. second, the oil is running out. we really need to move to a sustainable energy supply. and thirdly, effective climate policy is a good weapon against recession. investments in renewable energy, green energy infrastructure and energy efficiency in buildings are creating millions of jobs, and we cannot afford to let that go. of course we must be careful that jobs in the steel, paper or automobile sectors do not disappear abroad. as it stands, the package is going in the right direction, but we have to be careful not to leave it empty-handed. the agreement on the fuel directive is at least satisfactory. 10% reduction in co2 based on a well-to-wheel analysis. that is a good and powerful signal, especially at a time when oil companies are increasingly using energy to produce gasoline and diesel. the fuel directive thus provides a major impetus for global reductions in emissions from flares, accelerated deployment of electricity in road transport and the shift towards more efficient biofuels that also meet stringent sustainability requirements. europe is leading the way. similar initiatives have been taken in the usa, and the post-petrol era is in sight.
in writing. - the vvd abstained in the final vote on the mitchell report on a rapid response facility to counter the sharp rise in food prices in the developing countries. the commission has serious doubts as to whether the proposed measures will produce the desired results. improving agricultural production in developing countries requires a more structural approach than a sum of 1 billion to be spent over three years. the vvd also believes that there is still too much emphasis on channelling money to un organisations and the world bank. the member states could also do this directly. instead, the european union and its affiliated organisations such as the european investment bank (eib) should take the lead themselves.
mr president, a few weeks ago a judicial action by the burmese junta was completed, putting dozens, at least a hundred, members of the opposition, such as the comedian zarganar and the monk ashin gambira, behind bars after shady trials. draconian punishments were handed out and the human rights situation in burma is not improving. in 2010 elections will be held in burma, and the opposition has, rightly, quite a bit of scepticism about those elections, especially after the constitutional referendum in may 2008. however, sanctions and isolation of the regime have unfortunately not helped to bring about change in recent years. i think it's time to take a different path. the regime has no idea what the outside world means or expects, and new generations of leaders and military personnel are not in touch with the outside world, are not getting new insights. i believe, mr president, that this parliament should consider visiting burma formally or informally to meet the opposition there and perhaps put fresh and stronger pressure on the junta, something which unfortunately will not be achieved by sanctions alone.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, there is a saying that compromises will never win beauty contests. at first sight, this could be said with regard to the outcome of all the negotiations on the recasting of the european works council directive. based on the menrad report, adopted in this house six years ago, on the jurisprudence and on the experiences of management and labour in the last 12 years, the pse group has always asked for an ambitious revision of the directive. too many workers’ representatives are still deprived of the basic information and consultation rights as their employer refuses to grant them these rights. in our view, however, these rights are an integral part of the modelling of all industrial relations. the position of the worker as the stable stakeholder who stays in the company – compared to the job-hopping of management and the uncommitted attitude of the new type of financial investor – has to be reflected in the corporate governance of our companies. with the advice of the social partners incorporated in the directive and the additional modifications reached during our negotiations, the pse hopes to deliver some building blocks for a new dynamic. the formal political procedure is almost finalised. it is now up to management and labour to act. compliance with the directive, currently some 40%, is still much too low. the pse is of the opinion that this is not the end of the story; it is a new beginning. the european social partners have the enormous challenge of convincing those companies that still refuse to comply with the directive. we urge the european commission to contribute to this task. a new campaign is needed. recent research has demonstrated that companies with adequate information, consultation and participation of workers function better, especially in hard times. the economic crisis and the restructurings that we have to face in the near future make workers’ involvement in the decision-making process of our companies more topical than ever. i would like to thank my opponent, mr bushill-matthews, for the professional chairing of the negotiations, my colleagues from the other groups for their political assistance and the french presidency for their sophisticated approach. let us go to work.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i also thank the rapporteur, mrs rühle. the pse group was convinced that the directive should not only create a fairer playing field for industry but also ensure greater transparency, control and proper enforcement. my group also believes that it is crucial that when simplifying the conditions for the transfer of defence-related products within the community we take account of the consequences this may have for third countries, in this case especially with regard to the possible transfer of arms to developing countries. that is why, in the negotiations on the new authorization system for defence products, we called for improved controls at europe's external borders and for a system which should in no way impede cooperation between member states in the framework of the code of conduct on arms exports. in the negotiations the council has constructively followed parliament's wishes for greater clarity on who buys and sells defence products, the rules and conditions they must meet and clear penalties for companies not complying with the agreements, including market foreclosure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was pleased to learn that the council decided to do so last week, in conjunction with stricter rules on the export of arms components. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european defence industry is able to compete with the european defence industry.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on transport, i wrote an opinion on euro 6 earlier this year. the heavy goods transport sector has been subject to a number of emission reductions in recent years, including reductions in nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. the euro 6 standard rightly imposes additional requirements on engines. this regulation thus makes an important contribution to improving air quality and thus to improving public health. it is of the utmost importance that these new emission requirements enter into force swiftly. of course, the industry needs time to adjust. that time must be given to industry. during the parliamentary debate on this matter, i had a unique experience. the committee on transport voted more greenly than the committee on the environment, for example in bringing forward the dates. fortunately, the negotiations have finally resulted in an early entry into force of the legislation. i would like to thank mr matthias groote for his efforts to achieve this result, and i would also like to thank the commissioner for his statement.
mr president, commissioner, mr arnaoutakis' proposal shows very clearly that simplification is possible and that parliament has asked for it many times. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the desire for adjustment this time came from the member states, from the commission as well, but there is more to it. i know that a working group of regions and cities has been set up in the committee of the regions to identify and tackle these specific bottlenecks and to make similar proposals. i think that we should use this experience and make further adjustments in 2009. the commission has also presented the whole package, the economic recovery plan, which includes accelerated spending. this week in this parliament we shall be discussing the haug report on the budget, which expresses the wish to continue in this direction and to look more rapidly at other aspects of control and management. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr beaupuy. the member states themselves can do a great deal by, for example, making the financial management declaration, taking political responsibility for the implementation of funds, which would allow us to introduce even greater simplifications in our regulations. the call in the field for adjustments is strong. certainly with the elections coming up next year, we should be able to say: europe does good things, but it must also do them well. the statements made by the member states are in that direction.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ambition, the objectives have remained, but the approach is much more sensible. we have asked the committee on international trade to pay attention to this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of a single market in the community. we would then be able to get parts of industry to disappear from europe instead of what we want: the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation. it is therefore good that auctions have largely given way to benchmarks. so, let us celebrate the end result, because that is what the commission has been advocating for international trade. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the global approach and the commitment to it. in poznan, progress has been tentative. we must really work with the new president of the united states to get a global agreement, because only then can we really achieve our global goals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a result with which we cannot be entirely satisfied. as far as i am concerned, the full auction of emission allowances should have been held in 2013, but i still think the compromise that is now being proposed is acceptable. what i am pleased about is that it has been decided that the 300 million allowances will be made available for ccs demonstration projects. this gives us a good incentive to test this bridging technology. i also hope very much that the member states will actually spend a substantial part of the auction proceeds on climate objectives. this can be done by supplementing funds such as the united nations adaptation fund, or by indirectly channelling the money back to industry by promoting innovation and research. in view of all this, i can give my consent to the agreement before us tomorrow. it's a step in the right direction. jean-louis borloo had to get a wheelbarrow with 26 frogs, from which no one was allowed to jump, across, and avril doyle had to get a whole wheelbarrow with hundreds of biting frogs across, and she also succeeded. congratulations on that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - president, we are pleased with the outcome of the climate package. we clearly see the cda/epp position in this. it is important that europe also sets itself a target of -20% by 2020, which could rise to -30% in the case of an international agreement. what we must be careful about is that it is introduced proportionately in the member states. that all member states comply with it in the same way. the reduction commitments are set for each member state separately. this is basically a fair distribution and it remains important to maintain it. otherwise there are too many freedoms for the member states. if one member state complies with the agreement and the other does not, there is a risk of distortion of competition. so it is not just the climate that is suffering, but also the conditions of competition for firms and industries between the different member states. i have asked for this to be given full attention in the econ report; the commission should strictly monitor compliance and, where necessary, impose additional requirements. we will be following this closely from parliament.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. mr president, my group entered the negotiations with enthusiasm, because we wanted good conditions for co2 capture and storage. co2 better be in the ground than in the air. the question is whether the outcome of the negotiations is good for the environment. we don't think they are. it is regrettable that chris davies was not the rapporteur for the ets directive, because his insistence on financial incentives would have been appropriate. but now that he wanted to play the board game of carbon emissions, he was willing to sacrifice many pawns, and eventually even the king, on his own chessboard. for example, no maximum co2 emission limit has been agreed for new power stations. it has been said that power plants must be capture ready. what does that mean, "i'm not"? because without a definition, the availability of a football field on the side is enough. and the result of this report is that no restrictions are placed on the construction of ever more and superpolluting coal-fired power stations. the soccer field next to it then serves as a fig leaf for a distant future. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on introducing a liability period of 20 years and a fund from which the monitoring of closed sites can be paid for 30 years. on the other hand, this directive allows the pumping of co2 into the ground to extract more gas and oil, the so-called enhanced oil recovery. and that's a very bizarre part of the climate package, because this process naturally leads to more co2 being emitted. so thanks to the davies fund, oil companies can now take advantage of incentives for ccs to use and exploit their oil fields longer. president. - mr shell can be satisfied, but the environment cannot be. my group will therefore vote against.
- i'm the reporter. - the president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow will mark the end of a long process. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, all the staff, the commission and the french presidency for their commitment, their work and their willingness to cooperate. tomorrow we can agree to an agreement at first reading and give the green light for a special directive. for the first time, co2 requirements are linked to a product and a production process. parliament has worked to improve the directive even further. the directive will be a huge stimulus to the use of good and safe biofuels, to the use of electricity in road transport, which can bring about enormous efficiency gains, and to the reduction of methane flaring. these are wonderful results, and they set europe on a sustainable path. but let's go back to the beginning. the fuel directive has two objectives: air quality and reduction of co2 emissions. in the field of air quality, there are three improvements over the original proposal. firstly, cleaner fuels for shipping will be available more quickly. secondly, the exception for ethanol. the commission proposed to increase the maximum vapour pressure when ethanol is added. there's been a lot of debate about that. the southern countries in particular want exceptions to allow the blending of ethanol. but it is in the southern countries that the problem of harmful ozone is also at play. the compromise reached is that an exception is only allowed if the air quality requirements are met. a third point concerns mmt, a fuel additive which is harmful both to health and to cars. so, you could say, ban. but unfortunately, because of wto rules, that's not easy. that is why a limit value has now been set, and that is a clear benefit for health and for the reduction of neurotoxic substances. now i come to the second main objective: the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. i have just said that this is the great innovation of this legislation. for the first time, the concrete co2 requirement is linked to the production process. the oil industry will have to report in the coming years how much greenhouse gas emissions are caused by oil extraction, transportation, distribution, refining and the use of diesel or petrol. the well to wheel analysis is then used to establish a standard value. then the whole chain must reduce emissions by 10% by 2020. we have, of course, spoken at length about this 10% target. 6% of this is binding and part of this can be achieved by improving efficiency throughout the chain, reducing flaring, more efficient refineries and repairing leaks. another part can be achieved by using biofuels, but then they must be the most efficient. we are not getting anywhere with growing biofuels, which are only slightly better on balance. we're taking a huge step backwards when we first cut down tropical forests, and then we start growing biofuels. so there are strict sustainability requirements. we have now incorporated these requirements into the directive. it is about co2 efficiency, it is about biodiversity, but it is also about social criteria. the remaining 4% of the 10% reduction is initially non-binding. this 4% is again divided into two parts. part 1 covers the cdm projects in the chain. reducing flaring of gas is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gases, but it is not always traceable to the petrol or diesel that comes onto the market in europe. therefore, cdm projects are allowed, subject to verification. the other 2% concerns new technologies, for example ccs and also electricity in road transport. electricity is promising, but the techniques have yet to be proven for large-scale commercial application. in 2014 this must be clear, and then the indicative targets can become binding. all in all, i think that with this directive we are making a substantial contribution to the reduction of co2 caused by road transport. it is good to know that this is in line with the choices being made in the united states today. the low carbon fuel standard from california is being emulated across the united states. i thank the shadow rapporteurs once again for their contribution and for the good cooperation, and i look forward to the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i really think the cooperation we've had with each other is responsible for the outcome. only by working together can you stand strong, and i think in this case, we did. it is very important to see the fuel directive in the context of the whole climate package. first of all, the report by claude turmes is of course of interest in this context: the renewable energy directive. we share the sustainability criteria, and i believe that sustainability criteria have made a very significant contribution worldwide. i think it is extremely important that we establish that together tomorrow. i share mrs sinnott's enthusiasm for the algae oil. i'm actually as excited about it as she is; the beauty of this fuel directive is that it gives a great boost to new technologies, which can be a real stimulus to the development of alginate technology. in principle, the production of algae technology involves much less co2, and this makes it very attractive for oil companies and others to invest in these technologies. in the context of the climate package, it is also very important to move on to the next report, the sacconi report on new passenger cars. we have been very vocal in our efforts to ensure that electricity is included in this directive. electric cars are the future. electricity in road transport is many times more efficient than the use of petrol or diesel. so that's where we really need to go. i have seen that mr sacconi's report also provides some incentives in that direction and that is how we solve the chicken and egg problem. both on the car side and on the fuel side, the right incentives must be given to really get to cleaner road transport and cleaner fuels. i hope that with these elements of the transport climate package we will at least make a good contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. and again, thank you all very much for your cooperation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). these agreements should have already achieved a substantial reduction in emissions. in practice, however, there is very little of this. the average co2 emissions of cars are not much different from those of ten years ago. that is why we must impose strict binding rules. however, a strong industrial lobby has weakened the original commission proposal considerably, which i regret. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the short-term commitments have also been watered down, partly by a phase-in on both volume and fines, which reduces the effort to be made. i cannot therefore support the agreement reached between the council and parliament and i regret that the commission proposal has actually died.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, one european voice, we cannot repeat it enough, is the most important thing in these times of financial crisis. i am in favour of full european harmonization in the field of deposit guarantee schemes. this is also the voice of the european parliament and of the rapporteur, mr ehler. full harmonization is very urgent in times of crisis for two reasons. first of all, it is our job to provide financial protection for the consumer. the credit crisis has brought uncertainty and fear of losing their credit and assets to many european citizens. this is a feeling we must counter. at national level, measures to provide financial protection to consumers have been introduced in several member states. this has been the case in ireland, but also in the netherlands, where the guarantee amount has been temporarily increased from eur 40 000 to eur 100 000. the dutch state, like the irish state, feels responsible for the protection of private and small enterprises. however, it is necessary to consolidate the measures taken in a single european directive on deposit guarantee schemes. we know all too well the consequences of a lack of cooperation and supervision. we must do so in a uniform way, and that is why i am calling for a single maximum amount. that will be in 2010, if we follow the rapporteur's proposal. a maximum of €100,000. the present situation, with member states such as germany and ireland providing unlimited cover, is a danger to europe. money from the netherlands and england, for example, is going across the border to the neighbouring countries because of this unlimitedness. this has a negative impact on stability. i am glad that the council has agreed to this. the rapporteur, mr ehler, has made good proposals, including those concerning small and mediumsized enterprises. these companies should also continue to be covered by the deposit guarantee scheme. i think that in this way we as the european parliament have achieved a good result for consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises and i hope that the commission will also support this.
first of all, mr president, i would also like to thank all the actors for their role in the budgetary process this year. we have once again succeeded in establishing a budget for 2009. the council has returned to the usual ritual of a day's sitting. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to finance its own activities. i don't see that it matters whether it's 0.88, 0.92 or 0.9, it should be enough. it may be that next year gross national product could fall. it would be above the 0.9 agreed now. would that really give satisfaction to the various groups in parliament? i don't understand that. so, payout percentages should be adequate, not more or less. and if not, there can always be a supplementary budget later in the year. i would like to mention one pilot project, namely a pilot project to study the justification of income supplements beyond 2013. i would warmly recommend that in the commission's interest, because when we start the discussions next year, i think it is important that we know why we are giving these income supplements. is that really payment for services rendered, yes or no?
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr haug. it was a very pleasant cooperation and the committee on development and cooperation is satisfied. three things were important to us. firstly, that there was a response to the food crisis, and we are pleased that the commission proposal was amended and that a compromise was found which was supported by parliament and the council, making 1 billion available for the food crisis. what is ultimately at stake is a sustainable solution. and that means food security for the developing countries themselves, and that's what our pilot project is about. a major problem is that small farmers do not have access to micro-credit. it's hard for them to get good seed and fertilizer and to invest in irrigation if they can't pre-finance. we are therefore pleased that our proposal for the pilot project on micro-credit to small farmers has found broad support. we trust that the commission has the will to implement this pilot project. the second point concerns evaluation. we hear a lot of criticism of development cooperation today. to gain traction, we must not only explain what we meant, but above all what we have achieved. and it is a pity that the commission's reports are still mainly concerned with intentions. that is why we have called for more capacity in the commission to improve evaluation on results. we welcome the support of parliament for these proposals. thirdly, mr president, we continue to call for an increase in the budget for chapter 4, external expenditure. if we are to meet our ambitions and responsibilities, which are right when it comes to kosovo, the middle east, etc. where it is not just development cooperation but also conflict areas, then clearly more money and flexibility is needed.
in writing. − across europe there are forces which see the current lack of labour protection in the new eastern member states as an important competitive advantage which enables firms to reduce their labour costs. the working time directive, as the council wants it, will ultimately lead to everyone working longer hours for less money. voters are utterly unable to understand that cooperation between their countries within the eu is contributing to deterioration rather than improvement. this proposal allows for the use of temporary exceptions which extend working hours during peak production or tourist season throughout the year. waiting time for, for example, firefighters no longer needs to be rewarded. a majority of this parliament was prepared to agree to this earlier, on the condition that the opt-out which still exists would be completely abolished within a few years. the council, on the other hand, wants to make this possibility permanent and more extensive. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it will only undermine better national arrangements in many eu member states. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political body. fortunately, a large majority today did vote in favour of ending the possibility of exemption within 36 months.
in writing. − drivers tend to drive faster abroad than in their own country and are also more likely to park incorrectly. in practice, fines for speeding and parking are rarely collected. this is particularly irritating to the inhabitants and the managers of the large cities. it is precisely in this area, equal obligations for all road users, that european cooperation should have been effective long before now. foreign toll charges are also payable by everyone, and for years there has been talk of the possibility of automatically collecting electronically registered tax liabilities in the place of residence of the person concerned. the same should apply to road fines. it is bad for road safety and the environment if motorists can conclude that in a foreign country they can break all the rules with impunity. we therefore support the proposal to facilitate the collection of road fines across borders. that does not change our view that criminal law is and must remain a national matter and that the european arrest warrant, which requires people to be handed over by their country to another state to be detained there for a sometimes very long period, is a new injustice.
i think that we are again having an important debate today, mr president, and one which is also leading on the position and role of the european parliament and the european union in promoting human rights. it also defines part of who we are. as europeans, we attach great importance to respect for the universal and inalienable rights of every individual, wherever he may be in the world. but while our shared values of equal opportunities and respect for fundamental rights are an integral part of the european treaties and thus the basis of the european union, it is far less natural for us to call on each other when things go wrong. this report by the rapporteur, mr catania, rightly points the finger at that, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have worked on it for that approach. i ask the commissioner what he thinks of the idea that we should think about it within the european union, whether we can not come up with some better rules to speak to each other, if we think that things are wrong with human rights. i should like to focus on a specific point in the report: the situation of the roma in the european union. roma are not only the most discriminated community in europe, they are also a transnational minority across borders. the fact that this is not in keeping with the strictly national responsibility to ensure that their rights are respected has been clearly demonstrated by the outbreak of violence against the roma in italy over a year ago. the first responsibility for the care of residents lies, of course, with the member states, but each member state is obliged to do so within the limits of the european and international conventions. but all too often, unfortunately, we find that the member states invoke the so-called non-intervention principle. minority issues are a national issue. i think that is no longer acceptable, that we should debate, as i said, whether we can also agree within the european union on how we deal with human rights violations within the eu and put an end to the policy of not talking to each other about them.
president. - i should like to begin by thanking the french presidency and congratulating it on the initiative it has taken in the united nations to decriminalise homosexuality. i think that's a really great move. because discrimination against lgbt people is still very much in place, and i fear within europe as well. i think that the principle of equality before the law should apply in europe. in this respect, i believe that the anti-discrimination directive under consideration still contains too many exceptions which allow discrimination. we have to get rid of these exceptional rules. on the subject of same-sex marriage, i would like to respond to the previous speaker, mr szymański. i think, frankly, and this is not a matter of left or right, but a matter of civilization, that the state should not interfere in the individual's choice of private partners. the state cannot prohibit relationships based on religion, based on skin color or based on sexual orientation. the choice of a mate is a purely individual choice. the state has nothing to do with it. finally, mr president, on the subject of the pnr, which was raised by mrs yade. i am afraid that the european parliament is a little less happy with the course taken by the european council; we have had discussions on this before and i hope that in future the council will be prepared to take over the recommendations of the european parliament in this respect.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. illegal migrants are intercepted by the authorities there before they reach the european union, and this is done with financial resources and logistical support from the european union for the local authorities. european aid to african countries to curb unwanted immigration to europe is thus having an effect. but is it the effect we expected? i appreciate that the frontex operation has saved many people from the sea, but i fear for the fate of those who have fled for political or religious reasons. we are receiving reports from amnesty international and the unhcr that people are being sent back to their countries of origin without any form of investigation. the member states are rightly concerned to prevent illegal migrants from having recourse to our legal system. it does raise the moral question whether this approach will allow political and other refugees to access the asylum procedure. is the refugee convention being respected by african countries? i therefore call on the commission, commissioner barrot, to link aid to african countries to the humane treatment of political refugees, in accordance with the geneva convention on refugees. amendment no 4 to the report by mr moreno sánchez has my support. the activities of frontex are therefore unintentionally creating a new problem. the full responsibility for this must be placed on frontex. i am in favour of making provision in the very short term to ensure that political and other refugees can continue to have recourse to humanitarian shelter. the success of frontex depends on that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. vice-president, you have indeed spoken for a very long time, so late at night. if you want to emphasize that the commission is giving high priority to the fight against counterfeiting, you are forgiven. in fact, we would like to keep you on your high ambition, because it is indeed a very big and still growing problem. it is no longer just about beautiful gucci handbags, but also about the health and safety of the european citizen, the european consumer. i should like to thank the rapporteur very much for his excellent report, which we in the committee on international trade adopted unanimously, with two abstentions. we have had some complicated negotiations over the past week on new resolutions, but i am glad that we have collectively returned to our feet; i therefore hope that we can adopt this resolution by the committee on international trade by a large majority tomorrow. we appreciate the fact that the alde group has withdrawn the alternative resolution. much better cooperation is needed if the fight against counterfeiting is to bear fruit. customs play an important role in this, for example, look at the coordinated approach in five european countries where customs and industry are already working very closely together and destroying large quantities of counterfeit goods. that's great! better coordination is also needed. but in our resolution we are not proposing a new european agency. we've discussed that. i would like to draw your attention to the proposal by mr david martin to set up a european scoreboard. that's an excellent idea. i would also like to speak about the sanctions, especially to you, commissioner for justice. i hope you will take our proposals seriously and start working on them.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for this important report. counterfeiting is not only an economic scourge, it is also a threat to consumer safety and public health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. at the end of last month i made a very useful working visit to kosovo. the situation in this country is worrying. the lack of clarity, the overlapping international presence and the weak government in pristina provide a good base for smugglers in kosovo. it is a pity that criminals from the albanian and serbian sides are working together in a multi-ethnic, excellent way. i call on the union to deploy the eulex mission in kosovo to combat these smuggling practices. the european union cannot create a black hole at its borders. the fight against counterfeiting must be waged not only at the negotiating table but also in the field. i hope that the commission will pay attention to this. i have spoken to the commission about this in pristina. this is a very important point in our fight for the protection of intellectual property, also in the western balkans.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i apologise for the delay. these are difficult times for small and mediumsized enterprises. the crisis is not only affecting banks and listed companies, but the whole economy and is also hampering the sme job engine. it is therefore good that our european work should give this sector a heart. we're doing that through a series of measures that were introduced last summer under the small business act. i am working on a number of proposals in that series. the statute for a european company, more possibilities for micro-credit and the structuring of the option for a low vat rate for service providers targeting the local market of services to private individuals. a very important concern for smaller firms is the administrative burden. most of this pressure comes from national and local authorities, but in so far as european regulation plays a role, we have been actively working to clean up and alleviate this pressure. so is this file. the simplification of information requirements and the two directives on them, which are 25 and 30 years old and have been amended several times, are now being refined and simplified in a so-called fast track procedure. however, these measures are only a small step towards alleviating the burden. it takes a lot more than that. we have expressed our impatience with this in the legal affairs committee of this parliament. we have also tabled a resolution with this legislative dossier to urge the commission to speed up a much more thorough review of the rules for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission was already working on this. the aim is to achieve greater harmonisation of european rules for small and mediumsized enterprises. we have also had a discussion and a report by mr radwan in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, in which we explicitly said that the international accounting standards board, which was also working on an ifrs for smes, should not be the route, but that we ourselves should achieve further european harmonisation on the basis of the legislation already in place. the debate was brought to the fore by mr lehne, who was the shadow rapporteur for this report, in order to give the member states an option to exclude micro entities, the really smaller companies, from this european regulation. i think that this is an emergency measure, which, although proposed by the stoiber group, does not lead to fundamental simplification in the long term, because it only gives the member states an option and will therefore lead to great differences between the member states. so the ultimate objective and option should be to achieve such far-reaching harmonization that even the companies below the micro-entity threshold have the same system and a very simple system. in that simple system, i would like to point out the possibilities of what is called xbrl - that is a system where entering data for different authorities can be done in a very simple way and where different authorities can use that same data, so that it also becomes much easier and simpler for companies to provide that kind of information and that information is then useful in a lot of different ways. in short, we must also have a good discussion in the coming months about the resistance in the accounting world to the exclusion of these micro-entities. the commission must come up with proposals. we must therefore consider what is the best method for mediumsized companies, but also for those very small companies, in order to ensure transparency and a good system of accounting which will enable them to do a number of things without imposing on them a huge administrative burden.
- i'm the reporter. - i think the signal from this parliament has been clear. we believe that the emergency solution of allowing member states to exclude micro-enterprises from european regulation is a short-term solution, but not the final solution. i hope that the commission has received this message. for these companies, and for smes in general, we want, also from europe, uniform regulations which also enable them to operate in the internal market, but which are at the same time simple regulations, as mr gauzès has also said, with only one desk and one set of rules, as with the xbrl, so that they are not, as now, burdened with enormous administrative burdens. because even if you give the member states the option of excluding them, that does not mean that the member states can impose their own rules, which are different in all the member states. that will not solve anything in the medium term. in the medium term, we would very much like to see a proposal which provides for a simple harmonised regulation which can be applied throughout the internal market and which does not impose a huge burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, and particularly very small enterprises, just a simple system for providing information on their annual accounts. that is the intention of this parliament, and i hope that message has been received.
author. - mr president, in the previous emergency debates on zimbabwe on 7 july 2005 and 24 april 2008, i pointed out why mugabe has managed to stay in power for so long. the people remember their country's violent past. to many, he remains the hero of the liberation struggle. according to this view, everything he does must be considered good in advance. anyone who opposes him will, as before, serve the interests of the foreigners and at home only those of the privileged white minority. if mugabe were to lose power, the country would be re-colonized and the majority of the population would be discriminated against. the reality is different. the sudden radicalism of mugabe a few years ago, who had never carried out a thorough reform of agricultural land tenure and who had perpetuated the gap between rich and poor in his country, was mainly intended to win new support among a younger generation and not alienate his old comrades. that approach has won him more fanatical and violent supporters, but certainly not the support of the majority of his countrymen. europe and america have misjudged zimbabwean relations for years, raising suspicions of colonial ulterior motives. it was the feeling of hostility that kept mugabe in power. it is only now, before everyone is aware of the incompetence and disastrous nature of his policies, that resistance is growing. without the killings and intimidation, he would not have won the presidential elections and would have turned the narrow parliamentary majority for the opposition into a government. we are now one step ahead of the previous emergency debates. the water supply is broken and the cholera is killing people. that is not a reason for triumphalism over the failing opponent, but for aid to the people of zimbabwe. they deserve better government, but it cannot be imposed by anyone from the outside. we can stop mugabe from getting outside support.
the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. unfortunately, that most democratic period was also marked by administrative incompetence, rampant privatization and corruption. the chaotic period under president yeltsin in the 1990s created the climate for a return to a strong central state authority without much room for opposition or critical investigative journalism. although, unlike in the communist era, several parties now participate in elections, power is once again in the hands of one party, other parties are systematically obstructed and there is personal glorification around the leader of the leading party. a significant part of public opinion is behind that leader and does not care about room for criticism, alternatives or opposition. and it will probably remain so as long as russia is unexpectedly rich and successful in exporting gas and oil. this severely limits the scope for genuine democracy. opposing the current majority view are those who point to the enormous contrast between poverty and wealth, the high degree of secrecy, intolerance, the curtailment of the rights of autonomous regions, the treatment of ethnic minorities, the violent situation in the north caucasus, the neglect of economically weak regions, the mistreatment of conscripts, discrimination against homosexuals, impunity for some murderers, the one-sided bias of the police and judiciary and the restriction of the freedom of non-governmental organisations and the media. our sympathy must be with the critics. we can help those critics by setting a good example ourselves and supporting human rights activists in their fight against disappearances, harassment, secrecy and murder. in practice, countries with well-functioning parliamentary democracies inadvertently contribute to the opposite. we are not helping the critics by creating a missile shield or by supporting the georgian attempts to occupy abkhazia and south ossetia. that is seen as hostile acts that only lead people to rally behind putin. nor are we helping them, in our need for gas and oil, by accepting human rights abuses in russia. the resolution rightly states that human rights, the rule of law and democracy must be the main priorities in relations with russia.
